
                               1 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 26, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DETAINEES;
Treatment of Detained Immigrants Is Under Investigation

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


The Justice Department's inspector general said today that his office was
investigating possible abuses by federal prison guards in Brooklyn against
illegal immigrants detained after the Sept. 11 attacks, but the head of the
federal prison system vigorously defended his agency's handling of the inmates.

The inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, briefed lawmakers on a highly critical
report delivered by his office earlier this month on the treatment of Sept. 11
detainees, and said that investigators had "serious concerns" about a pattern of
verbal and physical abuse faced by 84 illegal immigrants at the Metropolitan
Detention Center in Brooklyn.

Investigators found that some guards slammed inmates against walls, dragged them
by their arms, stepped on the chains between their ankle cuffs and made slurs
and threats like "you will feel pain" and "you're going to die here," Mr. Fine
told members of the Senate Judiciary Committee.

Although Justice Department officials have declined to bring criminal charges
against any corrections officers in Brooklyn so far, Mr. Fine said his office
was conducting an internal administrative review of certain officers, who he
said numbered fewer than 10, and might recommend disciplinary action.

"We're looking at all options, wherever that leads us," he told a reporter. He
added, however, that his office had not found any evidence that physical or
verbal abuse had been condoned by higher officials.

Harley G. Lappin, director of the Federal Bureau of Prisons, testifying at the
same hearing, defended the handling of the illegal immigrants and suggested that
any instances of abuse -- if they occurred -- were isolated. Mr. Lappin said the
bureau's highly restrictive conditions, in which some detainees were locked up
alone for 23 hours a day, were justified because the inmates were suspected of
having ties to terrorists and had to be considered capable of violence.

But Mr. Lappin added, "We do not tolerate any type of abuse of inmates." He
said, "If these allegations of misconduct are substantiated, I want to emphasize
that the bureau will take appropriate and decisive action."

The reports of abuse in the Brooklyn facility drew condemnations from
Republicans and Democrats.

"Neither the fact that the department was operating under unprecedented trying
conditions nor the fact that the 9/11 detainees were in our country illegally
justifies entirely the way in which some of the detainees were treated," said
Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Judiciary
Committee.

It was a rare issue of agreement at a hearing marked by sharp partisan
differences over whether federal authorities went too far after Sept. 11 in
detaining illegal immigrants suspected of links to terrorism.

Mr. Fine's report found "significant problems" in the way federal officials
detained and treated 762 people who were picked up on immigration violations in
the months after the Sept. 11 attacks. Although very few of the detainees proved
to have actual ties to terrorism, investigators said that the Federal Bureau of
Investigation had made little effort to distinguish legitimate terrorist
suspects from the many people picked up by chance in connection with the Sept.
11 investigation. Many inmates were left to languish in unduly harsh conditions
for months, with some denied access to lawyers and family members, Mr. Fine
said.

Officials from the F.B.I. and the Justice Department defended their handling of
the illegal immigrants today, saying the extraordinary circumstances after Sept.
11 demanded that they err on the side of caution in dealing with suspects.

Michael E. Rolince, a senior F.B.I. official, told the committee that it would
have been "irresponsible, if not negligent," to allow the release or deportation
of people who might have links to terrorism.

And David Nahmias, counsel in the Justice Department's criminal division, added
that "if we had released or granted bond to an illegal alien who went on to
commit another terrorist attack, we would have failed in our responsibilities to
keep America safe."

That argument found favor from Republicans on the committee, as well as from
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, who warned against
exaggerating the inspector general's findings and placing overly burdensome
restrictions on law enforcement.

But several of Mr. Schumer's Democratic colleagues said they were troubled by
the inspector general's findings and by what Senator Russell D. Feingold,
Democrat of Wisconsin, called an "abuse of power" by the Justice Department.

Mr. Feingold said he was concerned that federal authorities had used the
ethnicity and religion of the illegal immigrants, many of whom were Muslims from
the Middle East or South Asia, as "proxies" in lieu of actual evidence linking
them to terrorism.

Mr. Rolince said the F.B.I. was never interested in the inmates' religions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn A. Fine, inspector general of the Justice Department, said
his office was looking into the conduct of federal prison officers in Brooklyn.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 6, 2003 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Prosecutors in Smuggling Case Against Tyson Contend Trial Is About 'Corporate
Greed'

BYLINE:   By SHERRI DAY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1009 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., Feb. 5


Federal prosecutors told jurors today that corporate greed caused Tyson Foods,
the nation's largest meat producer and processor, to conspire to suppress its
workers' wages by smuggling illegal immigrants from Mexico to work in the
company's chicken plants in the United States.

The government, which presented its opening argument in Federal District Court
in its case against Tyson, also accused the company of flouting immigration laws
by helping illegal immigrants to obtain false identification documents like
Social Security cards and driver's licenses and by hiring a large number of the
immigrants from temporary employment agencies to bypass the Immigration and
Naturalization Service's electronic employee eligibility database.

"This trial is about corporate greed," said John P. MacCoon, an assistant United
States attorney. "It's about what happens when a corrupt corporate culture makes
the bottom line the all-consuming priority."

Lawyers for Tyson and the company's three co-defendants, two employees and a
recent Tyson retiree who were accused of taking part in an illegal immigration
ring, maintained that the company had done nothing wrong. Tyson blamed any
misconduct on a few "rogue employees" who hid their actions from senior
management at its headquarters in Springdale, Ark., and have since been
dismissed or disciplined.

Tyson also said it believed that its co-defendants were innocent and offered
voluntarily to participate in the testing of the I.N.S. computer program that
was designed to ferret out fake identification documents as proof of the
company's innocence.

"If this company was really intent on hiring undocumented workers, why in the
world would the senior executives of Tyson Foods enter into an agreement with
the I.N.S.?" asked Thomas C. Green, Tyson's lead lawyer.

The case has touched off considerable interest among manufacturers in a variety
of industries because of the unusual punishment that could be levied against
Tyson. If the company is found guilty, prosecutors are seeking to invoke a
forfeiture claim, usually reserved for illegal drug cases, that would allow the
government to seize profits that the company made during the time that the
reported offenses were committed. Prosecutors initially set the forfeiture
claims at more than $100 million, but Tyson officials said the government had
reduced that amount. Both Tyson and prosecutors declined to provide the reduced
figure.

Regardless of the amount, industry experts said that forcing Tyson to pay a
forfeiture claim would have a ripple effect throughout the manufacturing
industry.

"It raises the stakes," said Quentin Riegel, vice president of litigation for
the National Association of Manufacturers. "Obviously the government is serious
about ensuring that the immigration laws are followed carefully and properly; so
there will be a renewed interest on that."

Tyson and six employees were indicted in December 2001 in the smuggling of 26
vehicles loaded with illegal immigrants into Tyson plants. The government's case
is based almost entirely on findings by I.N.S. agents who posed as transporters
of immigrants from the Mexican border to various Tyson factories in several
states, including Tennessee, Virginia, North Carolina and Arkansas. The
government also said that several Tyson plants, including factories in Kentucky,
Pennsylvania and Missouri, were actively recruiting illegal workers from Mexico.

Benito G. Maldonado, a special agent with the I.N.S., told jurors today that he
stumbled onto misdeeds at Tyson in October 1997 after making contact with a man
in Shelbyville, Tenn., who introduced him to Amador Anchondo-Rascon, a former
Tyson employee who ran a grocery store that catered to Latino customers and
provided fake identification documents to Mexican immigrants.

The agent said that Mr. Anchondo-Rascon, who has pleaded guilty and is now a
government witness, became excited on hearing that Mr. Maldonado was a
transporter and offered to partner with him to "make a lot of money" by
connecting illegal workers with a Tyson plant manager in North Carolina. Over
the next two and a half years, the two men and other agents brought in about 150
workers to Tyson plants in this country, the government said.

The investigation ended in July 2000, when special agents revealed themselves to
a mid-level Tyson manager and asked that he cooperate with their investigation.
The employee refused and alerted officials at Tyson's corporate headquarters.

The government's witnesses include former Tyson employees who have pleaded
guilty to taking part in a conspiracy to smuggle illegal aliens into the United
States and Special Agent Maldonado, who secretly tape-recorded more than 420
conversations with Tyson employees and smugglers and wore a video camera on his
belt buckle.

Since the indictment, three of the six Tyson employees who were accused along
with the company pleaded guilty to the government's charges and were dismissed
from the company. One employee, Jimmy Rowland, committed suicide last April. Of
the remaining three employees charged, Robert Hash, 50, the western division
vice president, and Keith Snyder, 43, a manager of Tyson's complex in Noel, Mo.,
were placed on administrative leave. Gerald Lankford, 64, who once worked as a
division human resources manager, has retired.

This is not first time Tyson has been embroiled in legal trouble. Last May, the
Labor Department accused Tyson and several other poultry companies of cheating
workers out of wages. The case is still pending. In 1999, the company was fined
by the government for violating child labor laws after a 15-year-old immigrant
who worked at a Tyson plant died and a 14-year-old was seriously injured.
Several months later, the company settled federal charges that it had
discriminated against blacks and women at a plant in Mississippi. And in 1997,
Tyson was charged with making illegal gifts to Mike Espy, who was the secretary
of agriculture in President Bill Clinton's first term. The company paid $6
million to settle those accusations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 7, 2003



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about a trial in which Tyson Foods is accused
of having smuggled illegal immigrants gave an incorrect date in some copies for
another complaint against Tyson, in which the Labor Department accused it of
having cheated workers out of wages. That was May 2002, not 2001.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 22, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTEREFFECTS: IMMIGRATION;
U.S. Official Is Indicted In Smuggling of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 658 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 21


Federal prosecutors here indicted an immigration official at the Department of
Homeland Security and two other people today, accusing them of conspiring to
smuggle 130 illegal immigrants into the country from Lebanon and Yemen over five
years.

"Immigration fraud cases like this potentially pose a threat to national
security," said Jeffrey G. Collins, the United States Attorney for the Eastern
District of Michigan, "and that's why we are vigorously prosecuting the case,
including prosecuting an employee of the entity that was supposed to protect
us."

Mr. Collins said that more than half of the illegal immigrants had been found
and that none of those had been determined to have discernable connections to
terrorism. They entered the United States between 1998 and October 2002.

There was little clarity, though, regarding those illegal immigrants who had not
yet been found. Federal agents are looking for them, Mr. Collins said, adding
that prosecutors would "make a determination on a case-by-case basis whether or
not they should be criminally charged or be removed from the country."

Janice Halstead, 59, of Detroit, was indicted for bribery, two counts of
conspiracy to smuggle illegal immigrants into the United States, and several
counts of attempted alien smuggling. Ms. Halstead, who worked for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service and then for the Department of Homeland
Security when the immigration agency became a part of it, received $3,000 to
$5,000 in cash, a bedroom set, jewelry and other gifts, the indictment and Mr.
Collins said.

The overall value of the goods and cash was not disclosed.

Ms. Halstead, reached at home after being released on bond, said she was not
guilty. She has not formally entered a plea.

"I think I probably made the wrong person mad," she said, adding that she did
know one of the other defendants, Zoha Madarani, but not the other, Salah
Al-Solihi.

Ms. Madarani, 38, of Dearborn, Mich., and Mr. Al-Solihi, 45, of New York, were
indicted for conspiracy to smuggle illegal immigrants into the United States and
charges related to immigrant smuggling.

Ms. Madarani and Mr. Al-Solihi could not be found, and officials did not say if
they were citizens or foreigners.

The indictments, which were unsealed today, stem from two similar cases
involving federal grand juries in Detroit and Flint, both part of the Eastern
District of Michigan.

Ms. Madarani was indicted in federal court in Detroit, and Mr. Al-Solihi in
Flint. Both grand juries indicted Ms. Halstead.

In the case from the Flint grand jury, Mr. Al-Solihi is accused of instructing
foreigners to obtain false passports with false names. Ms. Halstead is accused
of validating them with an official stamp, while Mr. Al-Solihi is accused of
sending them overseas, where they were used by foreigners to enter the country.

In the case from the Detroit grand jury, Ms. Madarani is accused of providing
Ms. Halstead with the names and photographs of people living outside of the
country who were not eligible to enter legally. The indictment says the two
women conspired to provide the inadmissible immigrants with false documents.

Ms. Madarani owns a consulting business that helps potential immigrants,
according to the indictment.

"The case is very disturbing because it represents a violation of public trust,"
Mr. Collins said.

Edward Dyner, special agent in charge of the Justice Department's office of
inspector general, said in a statement: "Department of Justice employees are not
for sale. The inspector general's office takes seriously any allegations against
department employees and will thoroughly investigate them."

If convicted, Ms. Halstead faces up to 22 years in prison and $750,000 in fines
from the Detroit case and up to 65 years in prison and $1.5 million in the Flint
case. Ms. Madarani could receive up to 20 years in prison and a $750,000 fine;
Mr. Al-Solihi faces 65 years in prison and $1.5 million in fines.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Republicans Put Immigration Laws Back on Political Agenda

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 790 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3


For the first time since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, several Republicans in
Congress are pushing for broad legislation that would regulate the flow of
foreign workers into the country and potentially legalize millions of illegal
employees.

Senator John McCain and Representatives Jim Kolbe and Jeff Flake, all
Republicans from Arizona, introduced bills in July that would grant permanent
residency over several years to foreign workers who enter the country legally
and to illegal workers already in the United States. Senator John Cornyn,
Republican of Texas, also introduced a guest worker bill last month.

The measures have been criticized by liberal advocacy groups that contend that
they do too little for immigrants and by conservative Republicans who say they
go too far. White House officials say they have not taken a stance on the bills,
and their proponents do not expect them to pass this year.

But critics on both sides of the political divide said the proposals were still
significant because they constituted the first time Republicans in Congress had
pushed aggressively for comprehensive changes in immigration laws since talks on
the issue between President Bush and President Vicente Fox of Mexico collapsed
after the Sept. 11 attacks.

Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox had been working on a long-term strategy to regulate
immigration flows from Mexico and legalize the status of millions of illegal
immigrants already in this country. The plan appealed to Hispanics and to big
businesses, important political constituencies for the Bush administration.

"To have Republicans stepping up and proposing these important but imperfect
bills is something of a breakthrough," said Frank Sharry, who runs the National
Immigration Forum, a policy group.

"To me, it's the post-9/11 signal that it's not a matter of if, it's a matter of
when we're going to legalize more migration so that we can better regulate it,"
Mr. Sharry said.

Mr. McCain said he expected the plans to be attacked from "both ends of the
spectrum" and that the legislation would face many political obstacles.

Advocates for immigrants said that the bills lacked adequate safeguards for
workers and created a complicated and arduous legalization process. On the other
side, Representative Tom Tancredo, Republican of Colorado, has criticized the
plans as an attack on America's borders.

"It's really amnesty on the installment plan," said Mr. Tancredo, the leader of
the Congressional Immigration Reform Caucus, which favors reducing immigration.
"They are even more ambitious in their amnesty proposal than some of the
Democrats I've seen. We have to watch this carefully."

Mr. McCain and other supporters of the proposals said that many illegal
immigrants did jobs that Americans do not want and that legalizing such workers
would help many businesses. They also said they hoped that the legislation would
help curtail or end the abuses some illegal immigrants suffer. Many die during
desert crossings or suffer at the hands of smugglers and ruthless employers.

"We all know it is an issue that must be addressed," Mr. McCain said in a
telephone interview. "The status quo is no longer acceptable. This starts the
debate."

The bills would allow the number of worker visas to be determined by the demand
for workers. Jobs listed on a Labor Department registry for 14 days and not
filled by Americans could be given to an immigrant guest worker. The jobs would
be advertised every three years to ensure that American workers were not
interested.

Foreign workers who apply for temporary work visas while living abroad could
apply for legal permanent residency after working in the United States for three
years. Illegal immigrants already here would have to pay a $1,500 fine and wait
for three years before applying for permanent residency if an employer sponsored
the application, or six years without an employer sponsor.

"We will be able to funnel 99 percent of the currently undocumented population
through ports of entry, where they can be documented, screened and monitored to
give the U.S. a better understanding of who is living within the nation's
borders," Mr. Kolbe said in a speech in Tucson last week.

Mr. Cornyn's bill would allow illegal immigrants to receive guest worker status
if sponsored by their employers. But they would have to return home after three
years. Once there, their applications for permanent residency would be given
priority.

Democrats say Mr. Cornyn's bill would separate families by requiring workers to
leave the United States to apply for green cards.

Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. Cornyn, said the senator was pleased that the
measure had stirred debate. "It has sparked discussion and it will continue to
do so," Mr. Stewart said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Reform and National Security

BYLINE:  By Tamar Jacoby;  Tamar Jacoby is a senior fellow at The Manhattan
Institute.

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 917 words


Just over a year ago, President Vicente Fox of Mexico visited Washington to
press forward with a deal he and President Bush were hatching on immigration
reform. Today, that deal is all but dead.

Yet the problems of immigration policy cannot be put on hold forever. The nation
needs to think again about the changes under consideration a year ago: a package
of reforms that would have increased the number of visas for Mexican workers and
legalized the status of many of the undocumented migrants already here in the
United States.

That plan may sound unwise today -- after all, many Americans are more
suspicious now than ever of new immigrants. But the truth is, a more liberal
immigration policy is not antithetical to greater security. On the contrary,
creating legal channels for migrant workers and registering the millions already
here offers the best hope for homing in on the few foreigners who have indeed
come to this country to do us harm.

In the past 12 months, Congress and the administration have implemented dozens
of measures aimed at getting more control of the borders and the foreigners
living in this country.

The most important is the border security bill that was approved by Congress in
May. Recognizing that it's possible to distinguish terrorists from immigrants,
the new law mandates better intelligence gathering and information sharing among
government agencies. Most critically, it provides for a layered screening system
that uses technology and linked databases to identify those with criminal or
terrorist ties before they enter the United States.

Other measures enacted in the past year look sensible on paper but, given the
size of the immigrant population, may be all but impossible to implement. It
makes sense in theory, for example, to track whether those who come here as
students are actually studying. It sounds reasonable in the abstract to check
that all those who enter the country on temporary visas leave when they say they
will, to ask that noncitizens report to the government when they change their
addresses and to make sure that aliens without proper papers do not get driver's
licenses. It's also hard to see what's wrong with the federal government
enlisting local police departments to enforce immigration law.

The problem is that the Immigration and Naturalization Service can't hope to
follow through on many of these measures. (Imagine it trying to process
change-of-address cards from the millions of foreign-born people who move each
year, for example.) Not only do several of these initiatives place undue burdens
on hardworking, law-abiding immigrants, but if they were enforced across the
board all would run aground among the vast illegal population -- an estimated
eight million people -- who would only clog the enforcement process, draining
precious resources that ought to be directed at tracking down terrorists.

What's the solution to this dilemma? The quick and dirty answer is profiling:
for example, rather than asking that every foreigner who enters the country be
registered, fingerprinted and required to report regularly to authorities, we
could apply the law only to those from terror-sponsoring nations like Iraq and
Syria. (In fact, that's more or less the compromise the Justice Department began
implementing last week.)

There's an argument that can be made for this kind of discretionary approach --
after all, most immigrants, including the millions who are illegal, pose no
threat. But surely, rather than implement the law selectively, it would be
preferable to reduce the number of foreigners living here illicitly. And since
we can't send them home -- most are doing jobs essential to the economy -- it
only makes sense to bring them in out of the shadows with some sort of
legalization or regularization process.

Not only would legalization eliminate a vast population of second-class
noncitizens -- the existence of such a population is an affront to our
democratic values -- it would also allow us to identify and keep track of these
millions of undocumented immigrants without resort to law enforcement. It would
help reduce the market for forged documents -- Social Security cards, driver's
licenses and the like -- that make deceit so easy for would-be terrorists. And
it would increase the chances that foreign-born workers would cooperate with
local police, contributing to the fight against America's enemies.

Even in the safest of times, surely there is cause for concern when millions of
well-intentioned people are forced by a bad law to view authorities with
suspicion and to regard breaking the law as the accepted norm. In times like
these, it is arguably suicidal.

The changes Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox discussed last year would address this problem
and create a legal path for future migrants who will be needed when the economy
improves. But in the past 12 months, the administration has largely lost sight
of these goals. Though the president and his spokesmen still pay lip service to
immigration reform, the administration has done little to move a plan forward
and negotiations with Mexico are all but stalled.

Reorganization of the I.N.S. -- essentially a bureaucratic reshuffling -- is not
the answer. Nor can Democrats hope to steal this issue from Republicans -- this
has to be a bipartisan effort. A year after Sept. 11, the country needs a
realistic immigration policy that can be realistically enforced. Last year,
President Bush seemed ready to lead the way. He should make it a priority now.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 23, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Police Investigate Killings of Illegal Immigrants in Arizona Desert

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1180 words

DATELINE: RED ROCK, Ariz., Oct. 22


The police are investigating whether armed vigilantes, self-appointed guardians
of the border with Mexico, fatally shot at least two illegal immigrants in the
desert last week.

A 32-year-old man who was part of a group of a dozen migrants waiting to be
picked up by smugglers at a pond just west of here last Wednesday told
investigators that he escaped through the brush after two men wearing camouflage
fatigues descended on the group, firing an automatic rifle and a pistol.

Police officers found two bodies riddled with bullets and no sign of the
remaining nine migrants. It is not known whether they escaped or were loaded
into vehicles and taken away, either dead or alive.

Mike Minter, a spokesman for the Pinal County Sheriff's Department, said
detectives were looking into several possibilities, including a suggestion that
the shootings were a result of a dispute between rival coyotes, as the smugglers
who guide migrants across the border are called.

Mr. Minter said the nine missing people "may have been taken from one coyote
group by another coyote group." Conversely, he said, the possibility that
vigilantes were involved "hasn't been ruled out."

Migrants-rights advocates in Tucson, about 30 miles southeast of here, say the
killings are part of a vigilante terror campaign intended to stop the flow of
immigrants from Mexico.

The advocates discounted the notion that rival coyotes, who usually blend in
with their charges so as to avoid detection, were responsible for the killings.

"Never have I seen a coyote or a smuggler wear camo or military dress," said
John M. Fife, pastor of Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson and a former
member of the Sanctuary movement, which helped political refugees, primarily
from Central America, gain asylum in the United States in the 1980's.

At a news conference on Monday, Isabel Garcia, 49, a public defender in Pima
County and co-chairwoman of the Human Rights Coalition/Indigenous Alliance
Without Borders, said the killings "crystalize the increasingly hostile and
violent atmosphere created by failed U.S. border policies."

Members of the self-professed border guardian groups denied any connection to
last week's deaths. Glenn Spencer, founder of American Border Patrol, based in
Sierra Vista, 19 miles north of the Mexican border, said his associates carried
weapons during their patrols only for protection against mountain lions.

But Mr. Spencer, 65, acknowledged that his goal was to repatriate all illegal
immigrants, even ones who have been in the country for years.

"They're able to outsmart us all the time," Mr. Spencer said of the migrants.
"I'm not interested in enforcing the law. It's about telling the American people
what's going on at the border."

Roger Barnett, who lives on a 22,000-acre ranch two miles north of the border,
near Douglas, and who heads Ranch Rescue, the most visible of the citizens'
patrol groups, said coyotes were responsible for the killings last week. The
border was "out of control," Mr. Barnett said.

"The government has left us alone out here -- they forgot about us," Mr. Barnett
said from his tow-truck shop in Sierra Vista. "They got one hell of a problem
here with these invasions from Mexico."

Mr. Barnett, who has allied himself with Mr. Spencer's group, said he and his
brother, Donald, had detained at least 8,000 illegal immigrants over the past
four and a half years and turned them over to the United States Border Patrol.
He said that the migrants, who are made to sit on the ground, sometimes "get
mouthy with us" and that he was forced to become physically aggressive to
control them.

"If you go out there and you're not armed, you're a fool," said Mr. Barnett, who
carries a 9-millimeter pistol. "Who's going to protect you out there?"

A brochure distributed by one of the citizens' patrols urges volunteers around
the country to "come and stay at the ranches and help keep trespassers from
destroying private property." Next to a headline that reads "Fun in the Sun,"
the invitation says that volunteers "may be deputized if necessary."

Members of Ranch Rescue said that, clad in camouflage and armed with
semiautomatic rifles, they seized about 280 pounds of marijuana a week ago from
smugglers crossing the border near Lochiel, 65 miles south of Tucson.

Sheriff Marco Antonio Estrada of Santa Cruz County, where Lochiel is, said Ranch
Rescue teams did not have the training to intercept drug traffickers and might
lead such smugglers to believe that trafficking was easier, if they were not up
against federal officers or local deputies.

"I have concerns that they're not really welcome, or really not needed," Sheriff
Estrada said of the citizens' patrols. "They are not helping law enforcement,
definitely not."

The known survivor of last week's shootings is being cared for by Mexican
consular officials in Tucson, who declined to make him available for comment
because he is a material witness in the case.

Carlos Flores Vizcarra, the consul, said so-called vigilantes who police the
border "put out a message of fear and intimidation" that prevents a resolution
of larger questions of immigration.

Farther north, the Maricopa County Sheriff's Department is investigating the
killing of eight men, at least six of them Mexican citizens, whose bodies were
found from June to September in the desert west of Phoenix. The men were gagged
and handcuffed or bound with duct tape and elastic bands. Seven had been shot in
the back of the head; the eighth was stabbed.

Investigators were looking into the possibility that smugglers had killed them
for their money, or that they were involved in drug trafficking. Lt. J. J.
Tuttle, a sheriff's department spokesman, said hate groups or vigilantes might
also be to blame.

A broad expanse of desert in southern Arizona has been the nation's busiest
region for illegal border crossings for the past five years, with more than
333,000 arrests by the Border Patrol in the fiscal year ending Sept. 30. With
261 miles of border, the area has become even more active since the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks, which brought increased enforcement of restrictions on
crossings in California and Texas.

The harsh conditions of Arizona's deserts led to the deaths of at least 134
migrants, primarily from dehydration and exposure, in the 2002 fiscal year ended
Sept. 30, up from 11 in 1998. The number is more than double that of the
second-most-perilous district, in eastern California, where 63 people died in
the last fiscal year.

At the scene of the shootings here, yellow police tape fluttered in the breeze
tonight by the algae-covered pond. On the ground, four sticks were arranged in
the form of a cross; while underneath them an X had been burned into the dirt.
David Cook, assistant manager of the Red Rock Custom Feeding Company, about a
mile west of the pond, recalled his conversation with the survivor of the
shootings, who had gone there for help in what Mr. Cook called a "panicked"
state.

"He kept telling me, 'They were soldiers, they were soldiers', " Mr. Cook said.
"I told him that soldiers don't kill people up here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Deputy Wayne W. Cashman of the Pinal County Sheriff's Department
at the scene where the bodies of two illegal immigrants were found last week.
(Chris Richards for The New York Times) Map of Arizona highlighting Red Rock:
Nine migrants are still missing in shootings that left two bodies.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexicans' Bids to Enter U.S. Rebound to Pre-9/11 Levels

BYLINE:  By JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 938 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex.


The first reminder that human cargo was again steadily moving north from Mexico
came in July, when more than 40 people, two of them dead, were found in a truck
in Dallas. Then in August, border agents in Sarita, Tex., found 73 men, women
and children alive and packed in a tractor-trailer filled with rotten
watermelons.

Then in October, in Iowa, the skeletons of 11 people, some later identified as
Mexican laborers, were discovered in a locked car of the train that had ferried
them north. Weeks later, border agents in Laredo, Tex., found 51 people,
uncomfortable but breathing, in a tractor-trailer that had tried to slip past a
checkpoint.

The incidents offer vivid evidence that the abrupt slowdown in illegal
immigration after the Sept. 11 attacks is over. So do recent statistics compiled
by the United States Border Patrol, which show that apprehensions of illegal
immigrants -- the barometer for measuring activity along the border -- are
roughly back to where they were before Sept. 11.

"We're running about even with last year, maybe slightly higher," said Ray
Garza, assistant chief of the Border Patrol's McAllen sector, which covers South
Texas.

Mr. Garza and other officials added that tightened security along the border had
made the crossing more dangerous and expensive, since the services of smugglers,
known as "coyotes," were now almost always required. The people found in the
truck in Dallas, for example, had each paid $1,500 to $2,000, a huge sum for
someone who might be lucky to find a $6-an-hour job in this country.

Mario Villarreal, a Border Patrol spokesman in Washington, said the inflated
smuggling fees were the result of the increased difficulty of crossing the Rio
Grande after a huge expansion of border agents in the 1990's. "Because of the
increased enforcement, it's much harder to enter the United States, and that has
driven fees up from $1,000 to $2,000 per person from Mexico," he said.

Border Patrol officials often characterize smuggling rings as large,
sophisticated operations that are sometimes intertwined with drug trafficking
operations. Mr. Villarreal said one smuggling ring was known to send a group of
illegal immigrants in one direction as a decoy.

Some analysts say the image of a high-tech human smuggling ring can be
misleading. Often, they say, the rings may be a handful of family members or
acquaintances who own safe houses along the route north.

One woman here in South Texas, whose nephew used a smuggler to cross, said the
local rings often communicated by cellphones and pagers, tipping one another to
patrols. The woman, who would only allow the use of her given name, Elizabeth,
said the smugglers falsified documents to help people pass checkpoints on the
international bridges. For those without papers, smugglers often provide safe
houses, then transport groups to Border Patrol checkpoints in towns like Sarita
and Falfurrias.

"They will take them to Sarita, and then tell them how to walk," said Elizabeth.
She said immigrants would walk through the scrub desert to avoid the checkpoints
along the highways and then be picked up at an assigned spot by a smuggler to
continue north. In the summer, when temperatures exceed 100 degrees, the bodies
of immigrants who were lost or abandoned by smugglers are sometimes found in the
desert.

The Rev. Mike Seifert, pastor of San Felipe De Jesus Catholic Church in Cameron
Park, a border community, said only the determination of Mexicans and others to
find a better life could explain their willingness to place themselves in the
custody of smugglers. He said he had counseled women who had told horrific tales
of smugglers raping and intimidating them on the trip north..

"They traffic in human misery," Father Seifert said. "They make their living out
of people's desperation, and their price goes up with it."

Fernando Garcia, executive director of Border Network for Human Rights, an El
Paso advocacy group for immigrant groups, said coyotes were a creation of the
Border Patrol policies in the last decade, such as Operation Hold the Line in El
Paso, Operation Gatekeeper in San Diego and Operation Rio Grande in South Texas.
These crackdowns involved increased patrols, as the Border Patrol, in some
areas, more than doubled its number of agents.

As a result, the journey has become harder as immigration routes have moved from
city crossings to the desert. They "put more risk on the immigrants trying to
cross the border," Mr. Garcia said. "One of the immediate results was deaths on
the border. The other major consequence of these operations and policies is that
they actually gave the coyotes a reason to exist."

Mr. Villarreal, the Border Patrol spokesman, said the patrol's crackdowns were
in keeping with its mission of securing the border against illegal immigration
and smuggling. He said border agents had rescued hundreds of immigrants
abandoned by smugglers. He also said the policy has worked, noting that the
number of apprehensions had fallen from more than 1.6 million in 2000 to fewer
than 1 million in fiscal year 2002.

The biggest crackdown, of course, occurred after Sept. 11, when crossing on
border bridges ground to a virtual halt. Trips that had previously taken a half
hour suddenly took half a day. And the number of apprehensions plummeted,
falling 25 percent during the 2002 fiscal year.

Gradually, numbers have been returning to previous levels. In August, more than
82,000 people were caught on the southern border, compared with about 84,000 in
2001. In September, 15,000 more people were apprehended than last September,
though that number probably reflects the Sept. 11 crackdown.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Border Patrol agents check a Texas train for illegal immigrants.
(Brad Doherty for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 15, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trapped in Heat In Texas Truck, 18 People Die

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO and DAVID BARBOZA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, Tex., May 14


Sheriff's deputies found the bodies of 17 people early this morning on the
outskirts of this southern Texas city, the victims of stifling heat inside a
trailer truck that was apparently being used to smuggle them into the United
States.

Another person died later today in a hospital here, bringing the number of
deaths to 18 and making it the highest death toll ever from a suspected case of
smuggling immigrants into the United States by truck. It is also among the
largest losses of life in any immigrant smuggling incident.

The trailer in which the bodies were discovered had about 100 people in all,
including people from Mexico, El Salvador and Guatemala, many of whom fled into
nearby fields when law enforcement officials arrived, said Eduardo Ibarrola, the
consul general for Mexico in Houston, which is two hours northeast of Victoria.
One of the dead was a 7-year-old boy, the Victoria County Sheriff's Department
said.

The trailer, which was parked at a truck stop, showed signs that the trapped
people had tried to punch holes through it so air could come in. It was not
clear how and when the truck's door was opened.

Asa Hutchinson, under secretary for border and transportation security at the
Department of Homeland Security, said in Washington that the agency would make
investigation of the smuggling incident one of its highest priorities.

"This grim discovery is a horrific reminder of the callous disregard smugglers
have for their human cargo," Mr. Hutchinson said in a statement. "These ruthless
criminals, who put profit before people, will be tracked down, apprehended and
prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law."

Some advocates for illegal immigrants took a more nuanced view.

"This is not entirely the fault of the smugglers, though they are certainly
unsavory people," said Rogelio Nunez, director of Proyecto Libertad, a legal
services organization for illegal immigrants in Harlingen, Tex. "This incident
and others like it have come about because harsher U.S. policies toward the
border has made it more difficult for people to come across, increasing the
risks they're willing to take."

Those who died suffered from asphyxiation and heatstroke, health officials here
said. Temperatures in this part of Texas, a humid crossroads between Houston,
San Antonio and Corpus Christi about 175 miles north of the border, were close
to 90 degrees and were said to have been above 100 degrees inside the trailer.

"They weren't talking a lot," said Melissa Purl, a spokeswoman for Citizens
Medical Center, Victoria's largest hospital, which treated 10 people who were
inside the trailer, including the one who died. "I think they were happy to be
alive and be safe. They really didn't talk a lot."

Late today, health officials in Victoria were still preparing for the
possibility that more patients could be brought in.

"Certainly everyone's fear is that someone is out there without water," Ms. Purl
said.

The 40-foot-long, insulated semitrailer was believed to have been driven from
Harlingen, a South Texas city across from the Mexican border that is in a widely
used crossover area for many people seeking entry into the United States, said
Mr. Ibarrola, who spoke with many of the survivors.

Some of those in the trailer were crossing into the United States for the first
time, but others were returning after visiting relatives in their home
countries, Mr. Ibarrola said in an interview. The truck was on its way to
Houston, where the immigrants had expected the smugglers to allow them to
disperse across the United States, he said.

Mr. Ibarrola said the immigrants started pounding the sides of the trailer and
yelling for help about 2 a.m. Dispatchers at Victoria's 911 emergency center
received a report of a disturbance about 20 minutes later and the first
ambulance arrived at 2:33, said Vance L. Riley, chief of the Victoria Fire
Department.

"What they found were people dead, dying or ill and they immediately began
triage operations," Mr. Riley said. He added that emergency medical technicians
had to move victims they deemed as "not savable to get to those who were
savable."

Six men were taken to the emergency room at the DeTar Hospital Navarro, where
their body temperatures, even after the time spent in triage at the scene and
the ambulance ride, were as high as 105 degrees, said Jerrel Robinowich,
director of the hospital's public relations.

The authorities here say that more than a dozen people were hospitalized here in
the Victoria area and that as many as 40 immigrants may have fled from the scene
after the door of the truck was jarred open early this morning.

Most of the undocumented immigrants were believed to be between the ages of 19
and 45, though one of the people who survived turned 15 today. Sheriff Michael
Ratcliff said law enforcement officials bought the girl, who was at the Victoria
Community Center, a birthday cake.

A man believed to be the driver of the truck, Tyrone Williams of Schenectady,
N.Y., was taken into custody today near Houston, a federal official said. The
authorities said the driver had fled the scene early this morning after
detaching the cab from the trailer.

Michael Shelby, the United States attorney for the Southern District of Texas,
said that Mr. Williams had not been charged with any crime and that the
authorities were still looking for two more suspects, whom they described as a
white man and a Hispanic woman. They did not give the suspects' names.

The authorities here said they discovered the carnage after they responded to an
early morning telephone call from the Speedy Stop off Highway 77, about seven
miles south of Victoria. When the police arrived, they discovered 14 bodies
inside the truck parked on the northwest side of the gas station and three other
bodies on the ground close by.

The Victoria County Sherrif's Department said it was believed that the people
inside the trailer were struggling for some time to get air. The refrigerator
truck was insulated and the refrigeration system was not turned on, the office
said.

Some people inside the truck were apparently taking turns trying to bore holes
into the door to create air pockets. There were four holes visible in the
insulation of the door this afternoon, but it is not clear whether the doors was
punctured to allow air to flow in.

The 7-year-old who died was believed to have been with his father, who also
died, the sheriff's department said. Their names and nationality were not made
available.

This afternoon, police had cordoned off the scene with yellow crime tape. The
bodies of at least four victims were still lying on the ground, covered with
bags, late this afternoon.

Dozens of satellite television trucks and other news vehicles had boxed in the
truck stop as investigators and medical officials hovered around the scene. One
team of three stopped to photograph a blue-jean-clad victim, whose body lay
under a white cover. When done, they draped the cover back over him, making sure
it would not be torn away by the wind.

A health care worker, Socorro Revilla, was passing by and said she thought the
commotion was a demonstration, but when she found out what happened she returned
to the scene because she was afraid that she might have known someone, a
relative or a friend, in the trailer.

"No, this can't be happening," Ms. Revilla, who was on the verge of weeping,
slowly said. "It hurts. It's unfair. I hope God finds whoever did this and
brings him to justice. I have relatives in Mexico and know they all want to come
over here and make a living."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bodies were found yesterday in and around a tractor-trailer
near Victoria, Tex. State investigators checked the vehicle for evidence. (Frank
Tilley/Victoria Advocate, via Associated Press)(pg. A1); The authorities removed
a body yesterday from a truck near Victoria, Tex.; the immigrants inside
suffered from asphyxiation and heat stroke. (Associated Press)(pg. A28) Map of
Texas highlighting Victoria: A truckload of people, some dead, was found outside
Victoria. (pg. A28)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman Says Fear Invaded Cabin of Immigrants' Truck

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 836 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 20


As Tyrone M. Williams drove toward a government checkpoint 100 miles north of
the Mexican border last week with his tractor-trailer of human cargo, the woman
in the passenger seat began to worry aloud, she has told investigators.

"Shut up!" she said Mr. Williams ordered her. He knew what he was doing.

Sure enough, Mr. Williams's truck, with "Wild Child" painted on the driver's
door, slid through the checkpoint with the simplest of inquiries and the
simplest of lies.

"What are you carrying?" a Border Patrol agent asked, according to the
passenger's statement, which an immigration official read here today at a court
hearing.

"I'm empty," Mr. Williams replied. "

Within three hours of crossing close to midnight on May 14, the trip turned into
what law enforcement officials say is the nation's deadliest case of human
smuggling. Mr. Williams, according to the statement by the passenger, Fatima
Holloway, began screaming into his cellphone: "How many people did you put in my
truck? They're tearing up my truck!"

Nineteen illegal immigrants from the Dominican Republic, Honduras and Mexico
have died from suffocation and heatstroke suffered in the truck. About 50
others, including some Salvadorans, are being detained here.

Other immigrants fled into fields near the truck stop in Victoria where,
officials said Mr. Williams told them, he abandoned the trailer with dead
bodies.

Today, a federal judge here denied bond for Mr. Williams, a 32-year-old Jamaican
immigrant living in Schenectady, N.Y. He has been arrested and charged with
smuggling at least 70 illegal immigrants; so has Ms. Holloway, whom the United
States attorney's office in Houston calls his co-conspirator. Two other men, who
are at large, have also been charged.

Federal prosecutors said today that they were also charging the four people with
endangering the lives of the people in the truck. That increases the maximum
penalty to 20 years for each person found to have been endangered.

Two other people were arrested on Thursday on similar charges after reportedly
trying to extort money from a Mexican who had paid $1,500 to put her son, 3, on
the truck. Another couple are being sought in connection with that part of the
case.

The hearing today sketched the outlines of a well-planned conspiracy that
stretched from Ohio and upstate New York to Mexico and Texas. According to
testimony from immigration officials who interviewed Ms. Holloway, the trip
began on May 10 in Cleveland, where, she said, someone paid her $1,000 to ensure
that Mr. Williams delivered $15,000 to someone in San Antonio. When the two
arrived there, Mr. Williams told her that they would travel an additional half
day and that they were going to see "his boys," the agents said she told them.

On May 13, the two arrived at a truck stop in Harlingen, near the border,
according to interviews with Ms. Holloway that were recalled today in testimony
by Jeffrey Hudson, an agent of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. Ms. Holloway said they met four Hispanic men whom Mr. Williams
seemed to know. One, she said, had a pistol in his holster and appeared to be
snorting cocaine, and he returned from what he called a medicine break with
white powder on his nostrils.

When asked about his pistol, the man, whom investigators identify as Abel, said
he was in a gang and was "hot." Investigators said Ms. Holloway told them that
she worried that she was involved in something criminal and told Mr. Williams
that she was concerned, but that he answered: "Don't worry. I've done this
before. I know what I'm doing."

Mr. Williams and Ms. Holloway entered the truck and followed what Mr. Williams
apparently called the "rabbit" car down a dark country road. They remained in
the tractor cabin while they heard people being loaded into the trailer. The
car, investigators said Ms. Holloway had told them, led the tractor-trailer out
of the field, and another car followed. The cars went south, the truck north.

After passing the checkpoint, according to Ms. Holloway's statement, another
truck driver pulled up alongside Mr. Williams's truck and gestured toward the
back. Mr. Williams, she said, left to examine the truck. When he returned, he
began making his frantic calls.

Just before 2 a.m. on May 14, security cameras at a convenience store taped Mr.
Williams and Ms. Holloway, who were buying bottled water for their cargo. Mr.
Williams entered the cabin and said he heard a woman screaming, "El nino!" in
the trailer, Ms. Holloway said in her statement.

"What does that mean?" he asked. She told him she that she did not know, that
she thought it was a storm. She said he told her that he had to find somewhere
to abandon the trailer. Around 2 o'clock, they pulled into the truck stop in
Victoria, where he unhooked the trailer. When he opened the door, immigration
agents said Mr. Williams told them after being arrested in Houston, where he had
fled to a hospital, he found 17 people dead.

One was el nino, Marco Antonio Villasenor Acuna, 5, of Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyrone M. Williams, the driver of the tractor-trailer that
carried illegal immigrants, at the federal courthouse yesterday in Houston.
(Steve Ueckert/Houston Chronicle, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Border Town, Migrant Crackdown Rankles

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1372 words

DATELINE: ALTAR, Mexico, June 1


There are jails that look more accommodating than Eunice's Guesthouse, a cluster
of windowless storerooms converted into dormitories behind a sprawling shoe
store in this town near the United States border.

But its triple-decker bunk beds, with wooden boards instead of mattresses, had
become coveted resting places in an underground railroad for illegal migrants
seeking low-budget hospitality before sneaking north across an inhospitable
frontier.

Last week, La Casa de Eunice and a few dozen other rundown hostels were
temporarily closed when some 600 police and intelligence agents descended on
them in early-morning raids that provoked protests in this impoverished region,
where illegal immigration has become a way of life.

The raids were the latest step in a crackdown by President Vicente Fox against
criminal groups that have made immigrant smuggling a billion dollars a year
industry -- Mexico's second-most profitable criminal enterprise, behind drugs,
and one linked to a rising death toll.

The law enforement officers reported the rescue of at least 65 undocumented
immigrants, most of them from Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras. At least 40
men were found locked inside a room at Eunice's, officials said. Another 450
Mexicans, preparing to enter the United States illegally, were questioned and
encouraged to return home.

Eight suspects, including a manager at Eunice's, were arrested and are accused
of running some of the country's most important alien smuggling organizations.

"We are talking about international mafias of extremely dangerous groups that
have caused great pain to many families," said Mexico's interior minister,
Santiago Creel.

In the last week alone, United States border patrol officials said, 10
immigrants were found dead in this desert region, where temperatures regularly
soar to 110 degrees. The raids followed the deaths of 19 Mexicans and Central
Americans who suffocated in a tractor-trailer that was illegally taking them
across Texas last month.

Migrants from Mexico and Central America pay $1,500 to $5,000 for passage.
Migrants from as far away as China or Iraq can pay as much as $50,000. Law
enforcement officials estimated that in this region of the border alone,
immigrant smugglers earn $1.5 million a day.

Mexican law enforcement officials said in interviews that there were an
estimated 130 small smuggling cells and 15 major smuggling organizations
operating from this country's southern border with Guatemala to its 2,000-mile
border with the United States.

The small operators carry out limited chores of the trade, including supplying
false visas or voter cards, arranging bus or plane tickets and placing
immigrants in tractor trailers otherwise stocked with goods.

The larger groups oversee and coordinate entire journeys, mostly for for
undocumented immigrants from South and Central America, but some have also been
involved with immigrants from as far away as Asia and the Middle East.

Increased security along the border, especially after the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, put an initial damper on business as many would-be migrants decided to
stay home, but officials said that illegal migration had begun to surge again.

On this part of the border, the more distressing numbers reveal a mounting human
crisis. Mexican officials estimated that at least 1,500 people attempt to cross
the desert each day. According to officials at the United States Border Patrol,
some 134 immigrants died last year, most of them from exposure. That was almost
double the 79 who diedin 2001.

"The great problem we face is a humanitarian one," said Jose Luis Vasconcelos,
head of the Organized Crime Unit of the Mexican attorney general's office.
"Migrants are often treated like animals, like cargo. They are a very vulnerable
population."

On Tuesday, Mexican and United States officials announced in Tucson that they
would increase security efforts on this part of the border in an effort to
prevent migrant deaths in the desert. Robert C. Bonner, the United States
Customs and Border Protection Commissioner, said that the agency would send an
additional 200 agents and two more surveillance aircraft. Mr. Bonner said the
agency would also set light beacons in high-risk areas that could be activated
by immigrants in need of help.

Mexico's struggle against the mounting deaths has long been handicapped by
constitutional provisions that prohibit the government from obstructing the free
movement of citizens, including those found entering the United States without
proper documents. However, the law prohibits and punishes those who hide and
transport undocumented foreigners.

Mexican legislators have said they will present reforms in the coming days that
will stiffen penalties on convicted smugglers, including increasing jail terms
of 6 to 12 years to 10 to 25 years. Mr. Creel promised the government would
conduct more raids along the border.

By stepping up enforcement against alien smugglers, known here as "coyotes" or
"polleros," law enforcement officials said the Fox government hoped to disrupt
all illegal migration from Mexico, and save lives.

Among those arrested in last week's operation was Lorena Trevino Cabrera, 41, a
daughter of Eunice Cabrera Dominguez, the owner of Eunice's Guesthouse. The
police described the elder Ms. Cabrera as the boss of a million-dollar crime
family that has used the guesthouse, as well as a small fleet of 40-passenger
buses, in illegal border crossings for close to a decade.

The Cabrera family matriarch was captured 10 months ago, when the police first
raided the guesthouse. After the arrest, the police said, two of Ms. Cabrera's
daughters, Lorena and Judith, took over their mother's business. Officials said
the women paid fees to "enganchadores," or recruiters, to bring migrants to
their guesthouse.

"They would get busloads of people coming straight to their doorstep from
Guatemala," said Julio Lopez of the National Migration Institute.

Then, Mr. Lopez said, the women charged each migrant a fee -- $1,000 $1,500 --
for lodging and a guide to help them across the border.

Judith Trevino Cabrera, 43, was not captured in the raids last week. Lorena
Trevino Cabrera, the mother of three, was arrested in a rundown house behind the
flower shop she opened three months ago. Her husband, Alvaro Quiroz, called her
arrest "an act of injustice."

Some 100 nuns and teachers, housewives and shopkeepers marched through town to
protest the police raids. "Most people here do not look at polleros as
criminals," said Mayor Francisco Javier Garcia. "They see them as service
providers to people in need."

"It's not the guides who are responsible for the deaths at the border," he
added, "It's the migration policies of the United States, and the Mexican
government's failure to create jobs."

At the end of the march, the protesters gathered at Lorena Trevino's flower shop
for a cold drink and to offer moral support to her family.

Another Trevino sister, Elizabeth, spoke at length in an interview about the
charges against her family. She said it had been more than a decade since the
first waves of migrants transformed this town from a rural outpost for cowboys
and Indians into a small, but bustling commercial center. At first, she said,
local residents shunned the outsiders, who camped out in the main plaza and
bathed in irrigation canals. But when agriculture became as unreliable as the
value of the peso, she said, many people abandoned their cattle farms and opened
boarding houses, restaurants, check-cashing counters and clothing stores to
serve the floating population.

Her mother and sisters, she said, provided food and lodging to the migrants who
passed through town. But, she said, the family never helped transport migrants
across the border.

A housewife and local political activist who had attended the protest, Maria
Teresa Traslavina, said that almost every business in town had links to illegal
immigration. But, she said, that did not make them criminals.

"We see the immigrants as our salvation, really, because we make our living from
them," she said. "If the government is going to start arresting anyone who has
anything to do with migrants, then they are going to have to put bars around the
entire town."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican migrants who had stopped in Altar headed across the
desert for the United States border. At least 1,500 people attempt to cross the
desert each day, officials estimate. Scores die each year, most from exposure.
(Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times) Map of Mexico highlighting Altar: Most
businesses in Altar are said to have links to illegal migration.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 29, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deaths of Immigrants Uncover Makeshift World of Smuggling

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE with GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2034 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, Tex., June 26


Karla Patricia Chavez left her home in Honduras when she was only 15, guided
across the Mexican border by immigrant smugglers to seek a more prosperous life
in the United States.

Now, a decade later, federal prosecutors say that Ms. Chavez has become a
smuggler herself, the ringleader of an operation that went disastrously wrong
when 19 illegal immigrants died from the oppressive heat in a truck ferrying
them through South Texas -- the nation's deadliest smuggling incident.

Prosecutors portray Ms. Chavez's group as a sophisticated enterprise that
stretched across the United States and six Latin American countries. Here in the
border region where she lived, and where the fatal journey began, a different
image emerges, of a small-time, often disorganized crime ring in which Ms.
Chavez was barely a novice.

Law enforcement officials say that Ms. Chavez's group was typical of those that
bring more than a million immigrants across the Mexican border into the United
States each year. Unlike narcotics organizations, which are tightly centralized
and controlled by powerful dons, immigrant smuggling networks rely on constantly
shifting configurations of guides and safe houses from Honduras to Houston and
beyond.

Illicit rings of coyotes, as the smugglers are known, are so common in the
border area that immigrants often regard them as services rather than criminal
syndicates. It is precisely their informality that makes them especially
difficult for United States authorities to track, and potentially very dangerous
for those who put themselves in the smugglers' hands.

Immigration officials say that women often play leading roles in smuggling
rings, because the illicit business rarely sees the kind of gangland violence
connected with drug dealing.

Ms. Chavez and her accused associates used technology no more advanced than
their cellular telephones and sport utility vehicles, court documents show. They
brought immigrants across border rivers on inner tubes, stowed them in their own
apartments in low-income housing projects and met each other at welfare offices
and truck stops, the documents show.

According to her indictment, Ms. Chavez packed far too many immigrants -- at
least 77 -- into a tractor-trailer that had neither water nor ventilation, for a
325-mile journey in scorching desert heat. Some immigrants who survived the
journey had body temperatures of 105 degrees when they were discovered.

When the trip turned to tragedy the crime ring quickly fell apart. The driver,
Tyrone Williams, abandoned the trailer full of bodies, then fled to a Houston
emergency room overcome with panic.

One smuggler immediately turned on Ms. Chavez, blaming her to the victims'
families, who alerted immigration agents.

Ms. Chavez fled to her family home in Honduras, a refuge where American agents
tracked her until her arrest on June 14, after she had left Honduras for
Guatemala. She has been charged with recklessly causing the deaths of 17 of the
immigrants who were immediately identified. Prosecutors have said they may seek
the death penalty.

"You do not know what awaits me," Ms. Chavez wept to a relative who tried to
reassure her when she called Honduras from a Houston detention center a few days
after her capture. "I think they are going to kill me."

In interviews in Honduras, Ms. Chavez's relatives recalled a time when she was a
sixth-grade beauty queen and devoted Sunday school student. She left home when
she was a teenager, with only a sixth-grade education. But she was already a
veteran on assembly lines in blue-jeans factories in Honduras.

Making Neighbors Aware

In Combes, Tex., a run-down suburb north of Harlingen, Ms. Chavez announced her
presence in a neighborhood of plain-colored homes by painting her own bright
pink, prompting neighbors to call it "the Barbie house."

Neighbors said they noticed a steady stream of vans and pickup trucks at the
house, which Ms. Chavez had shared with Heriberto Flores Rebollar, the Mexican
man she called her husband. He was the father of her three children, although
law enforcement officials said they believed the couple never married.

In a neighborhood where people commonly gather out front after sunset, Ms.
Chavez and Mr. Flores kept to themselves, and put up a six-foot wooden fence
around their house about a year ago.

"We knew something was going on -- this town is too small," said the Combes
chief of police, James B. Parker, "but we didn't know what."

Still, the neighbors' suspicions were softened by their view of Ms. Chavez as a
working mother, watching over her young sons as they rode tricycles in the
street. She sewed blue jeans at a nearby Levi's plant until it closed last
August, according to neighbors and a statement she gave to her lawyers.

Neighbors recalled that on Mother's Day -- three days before the deadly incident
-- a group of men gathered in front of Ms. Chavez's house to serenade her in
Spanish, the only language she spoke.

"I figured if anybody was doing anything, it's the men," said Sandra Vela, who
lives across the street. "She was too nice."

The authorities say it remains unclear how Ms. Chavez got into smuggling. But
court documents show that Mr. Flores had been on law enforcement radar as a
smuggler even before Ms. Chavez arrived in this country.

Mr. Flores had left his home village, in remote mountains in the Mexican State
of Guerrero, when he was 13, dropping out of school after second grade, his
sister and mother said in interviews there. After he settled in the United
States, Mr. Flores was deported to Mexico three times -- in 1989, 1995, and 2001
-- after he was convicted or pleaded guilty to smuggling charges under a long
list of aliases.

He kept coming back. The couple bought the house in Combes, paying $49,500,
shortly after he returned from his third deportation. Apparently he felt so
little concern about being caught at the border that he and Ms. Chavez made a
vacation trip to visit his family in Mexico last summer.

But last October, Mr. Flores turned up in the Cameron County Jail in
Brownsville, Tex., where he was caught by Border Patrol agents in a raid for
illegal immigrants. He pleaded guilty in federal court to violating his
deportation, and in April was sentenced to 70 months in prison.

Ms. Chavez has told relatives in Honduras and her lawyer, Jeffrey Sasser, that
she and Mr. Flores had split up before he was incarcerated. Mr. Sasser said she
claimed that she did not know where he was in prison.

No Criminal Record Found

So far, her lawyers have not found that she has any criminal record. Law
enforcement officials said the fatal operation appeared to have been her first
major smuggling run.

"It seems to me that this might have been her first big job since her
boyfriend's arrest, and it went terribly wrong," one immigration official said.
"Rookie hour turned deadly, and now she's facing big-time punishment."

Officials compare the smuggling rings that ply their trade across the Mexican
border to drug cartels in terms of their proliferation and international reach.
But a law enforcement official in Mexico said immigrant smuggling, in contrast
to narcotics, was "ant's work."

The rings are loose-knit, ad hoc collaborations, with one group moving
immigrants into Mexico, another taking them north towards the United States, a
third taking them on the often perilous trip across the border, and no one in
overall command.

The profits are big. In Mexico alone, law enforcement officials estimate that
smuggling nets about $1 billion a year. But because there are so many smugglers
involved in each journey, each one gets just a small piece of the pie.

The indictment against Ms. Chavez charges that she relied on a loose network of
other smugglers to connect with immigrants and bring them to South Texas.
Several of the 13 people who are accused of collaborating with her had been
convicted or pleaded guilty to smuggling charges.

According to court papers, the Rodriguez family -- Victor, his wife, Emma, and
son Victor Jesus -- brought immigrants across the border and held them in their
two homes on a busy Brownsville street. Claudia Carrizales, a cook at a tiny
taco restaurant that Ms. Chavez had rented a few weeks earlier, is said to have
taken food to the safe houses. Abelardo Flores and Alfredo Garcia are accused of
recruiting Mr. Williams, whose truck was normally used to transport milk and
melons.

In most cases the deals were as simple as this: in a Fiesta Mart in Houston, a
shopper, Josefina Gonzalez, overheard two strangers talking about relatives who
were going to be smuggled, and asked them how she might do the same for her
granddaughter in Mexico. They gave her the name of Norma Sanchez, part owner of
a Mexican restaurant in a strip mall in North Houston.

Ms. Sanchez, according to court documents, offered the woman what she said was a
discount price for a first-time customer: $1,900. She told Ms. Gonzalez to
direct her granddaughter to a hotel in the Mexican border city of Reynosa.

Death Near Destination

The trailer truck was to be the final leg of the journey for the young woman and
other immigrants from Mexico, Honduras, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic,
who had reached Harlingen by a variety of routes and means. Many of the Mexicans
told investigators they took buses to the border and crossed without the aid of
a coyote. A guide from Ms. Chavez's hometown led a group of 10 Hondurans on
buses through Guatemala and trains across Mexico, then helped them wade across
the Rio Grande at night.

With heightened patrols since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, the
smugglers' work no longer ends once immigrants cross the border. Now they want
to move clandestinely at least as far as Houston.

That was Ms. Chavez's work. Prosecutors said she made the decision that enough
immigrants were assembled in at least three safe houses to proceed with the
truck trip north. She is accused of working directly with the two men who
recruited Mr. Williams, who said in sworn testimony that he had been offered
$5,000 to transport the immigrants from Harlingen to Houston.

On the evening of May 13, at least two men loaded the immigrants -- who may have
numbered as many as 100 -- onto Mr. Williams's truck in an open field and closed
the door from the outside, while the driver remained in the cab.

In telephone interviews, two of the Honduran immigrants said they protested and
asked for smaller vehicles. But they said the smugglers told them that the
trailer was a better way to avoid detection by the border patrol.

Only three hours later, 17 of the people in the truck, including a 5-year-old
Mexican boy, were dead of heat stroke and dehydration. Mr. Williams opened the
rear door at a gas station just south of Victoria, Tex., the court documents
show. An unknown number of immigrants fled into fields around the station.
Immigration officials took 55 survivors into custody, including Ms. Gonzalez's
granddaughter. Another two immigrants died later in hospitals.

Ms. Chavez turned up days later at the adobe home of her eldest brother, Carlos
Alberto Chavez, in the Honduran city of San Pedro Sula. He and his wife, Sonia,
said in interviews that Ms. Chavez's homecoming was marred by sleepless nights
and outbursts of weeping. For 23 days, she almost never left the house, they
said.

Her father, Vicente Chavez, said his daughter spoke very little about her new
life in Texas, but mostly seemed content with small talk about old times. Sonia
Chavez lamented that Karla seemed to have developed a strong taste for material
things.

"The more you have, the more you want," she said."And it was not important to
her how she got it."

Ms. Chavez left her children in her brother's care, and was arrested when she
crossed from Honduras into Guatemala by car. After they learned of her arrest,
her relatives struggled to understand why she had come home to them.

"I think Karla came back to see who she was," said her father sadly, "because
she did not like the person she had become."

When she was arrested, Ms. Chavez was carrying the United States birth
certificates of her three sons. Her lawyer and her mother say she still wants
them to finish her dream, to grow up in this country, as Americans.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Near Victoria, Tex., a memorial has grown by the spot where 17
people were found dead in a truck's trailer. They were among the illegal
immigrants who had been locked in for a trip to Houston. Two others died later.
(Michael Stravato for The New York Times); Sonia and Carlos Alberto Chavez, in
the Honduran city of San Pedro Sula, with two of the children of Mr. Chavez's
sister, Karla Chavez. (Librado Romero/The New York Times); Norma Sanchez; Victor
Rodriguez; Emma Rodriguez; Claudia Carrizales; Victor J. Rodriguez; Karla
Chavez; Abelardo Flores; Alfredo Garcia; Tyrone Williams (pg. 25) Chart:
"Crossing the Border: The Smugglers' Loose Network"There are many ways for
immigrants to cross illegally into the United States from Mexico. Below are some
of the steps that prosecutors say were taken by at least 77 Latin American
immigrants, 19 of whom died on the way to Houston. Some people shown below are
accused of having played more than one role in the smuggling operation. Some
steps immigrants took CONTACT A SMUGGLERMs. Sanchez was known as a contact
person for immigrants seeking a smuggler, the authorities say. Norma Sanchez: IN
CUSTODY CROSS THE BORDERGuides led immigrants through Guatemala, across Mexico,
and across the Rio Grande. REACH A SAFE HOUSEThe Rodriguez family is accused of
smuggling illegal immigrants across the border and operating a safe house to
harbor them. They coordinated the payment of fees to Ms. Chavez. Ms. Carrizales
cooked food for people stowed in safe houses out of a restaurant owned by Ms.
Chavez. Victor Rodriguez: FUGITIVEEmma Rodriguez: FUGITIVEClaudia Carrizales: IN
CUSTODYVictor J. Rodriguez: IN CUSTODY TRAVEL FARTHER INTO THE COUNTRYMs. Chavez
is accused of being the smuggling ringleader. She worked with smugglers and safe
houses to move immigrants north across the border and into Texas. She hired Mr.
Flores and Mr. Garcia, who in turn recruited Mr. Williams to drive the truck for
the trip on which 19 people died. Karla Chavez: IN CUSTODYAbelardo Flores: IN
CUSTODYAlfredo Garcia: FUGITIVETyrone Williams: IN CUSTODY (Source: United
States Attorney's Office, Southern district of Texas)(pg. 25)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Transporter Of Immigrants Faces Charges

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words


Ten years after the rusty steamer Golden Venture ran aground near Queens,
exposing a bustling underworld of illegal immigrants being smuggled and held
hostage, a woman who federal officials say was a vicious ringleader of the
operation completed her own voyage from Asia to America. This time she was the
captive, escorted by federal agents after being extradited to face criminal
charges in New York yesterday, ending a worldwide pursuit.

The authorities said the woman, Cheng Chui Ping, was the head of an extensive
international human smuggling ring, as well as a shrewd Chinatown banker who
laundered her ransom proceeds behind a Broadway storefront. Ms. Cheng, who is
also known as Sister Ping, was charged with conspiracy to smuggle illegal
immigrants, hostage taking, and money laundering, among other things, in a
seven-count indictment released yesterday in Federal District Court in
Manhattan. If convicted, she faces life in prison.

Ms. Cheng, whom agents for the Federal Bureau of Investigation escorted to New
York from Hong Kong yesterday morning, entered a not guilty plea through her
lawyer, Lawrence Hochheiser, before Judge Michael B. Mukasey of United States
District Court. She struck a humble pose before the court in a black suit, head
down and hair drawn into a low ponytail. She said she understood her rights and
was detained pending a bail application.

"It's really a case of an enterprising individual who took advantage of those so
desperate to escape the poverty and misery of their homeland," a deputy United
States attorney, David N. Kelley, said during a news conference at his downtown
office. "But while promising passage to their dreams, Sister Ping often only
delivered a nightmare and sometimes death."

Mr. Kelley said Ms. Cheng, who lived in New York from the early 1980's to 1993
and then disappeared from view, transported hundreds if not thousands of illegal
immigrants to the United States under deplorable conditions "as if nothing more
than common cargo," and then routinely held them hostage in warehouses or safe
houses until the debts for their passage were paid. Officials said a typical fee
was about $30,000, and that evidence exposes smuggling operations going as far
back as 1984.

In one instance, officials said Ms. Cheng directed the smuggling of 130
immigrants from Fujian Province in China aboard a Taiwanese fishing boat headed
to Boston, then paid a notoriously violent Chinatown gang, the Fuk Ching,
$750,000 to transport them in three U-Haul trucks to Brooklyn.

In June 1993, when the Golden Venture ran aground off the Rockaway Peninsula in
Queens, 10 illegal Chinese immigrants died in the ocean after jumping from the
ship in a desperate bid to swim to shore. More than 300 people had been crammed
into the freighter's rusty hull, on direction of Ms. Cheng and other smugglers
known as "snakeheads."

People in Chinatown in Manhattan, where she once ran several businesses, have
said in interviews that Ms. Cheng, 53, was viewed as a benevolent figure and was
affectionately called Sister Ping or Big Sister Ping. They said she often found
jobs for people and helped them figure out their new surroundings, and that she
could sometimes provide loans faster than the Bank of China. Those who knew her
described her as friendly and called her trustworthy.

The image painted by law enforcement officials could not be in greater contrast.
"Unfortunately, you can't poll those people who lost their lives," Mr. Kelley
said in response to a question about Ms. Cheng's benevolence in her community.

Officials contend that she has made untold millions on the backs of illegal
Chinese immigrants, who were poor, vulnerable and unsophisticated, and forced to
pay tens of thousands of dollars per head for the voyage to America.

One official mentioned that hostages were threatened with dismemberment, one
limb at a time, until their debts were paid.

Ms. Cheng was originally indicted in 1994 and arrested in April 2000 at the Hong
Kong International Airport after an extensive search. The government had been
seeking her extradition since then.

Officials would not discuss how she was found in Hong Kong, but they did say
that she had been running a lucrative business before her arrest and had managed
to fake documents that allowed her to travel internationally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Midwest: Iowa: Immigrant Smuggling Charges

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 105 words


Three men were charged with smuggling 11 immigrants whose bodies were found in a
rail car last fall.

Prosecutors said Juan Fernando Licea-Cedillo, 26, Rogelio Hernandez Ramos, 38,
and Guillermo Madrigal Ballisteros, 45, were charged with conspiring to smuggle
the immigrants into the United States. Mr. Licea-Cedillo was in custody on an
unrelated federal charge. Warrants had been issued for Mr. Hernandez and Mr.
Madrigal, the prosecutors said. Workers who were cleaning rail cars in Denison,
90 miles northwest of Des Moines, found the bodies of the Mexican immigrants on
Oct. 14, 2002. They had been trapped for four months.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 13, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Mexico: Suspects Caught In Immigrant Smuggling

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 79 words


Special agents captured a dozen people accused of organizing a smuggling
operation in which 19 immigrants died after being locked in a tractor-trailer,
the government said.

Interior Secretary Santiago Creel and Attorney General Rafael Macedo de la
Concha said officials have issued arrest warrants for 25 other suspects.
Seventeen people were found dead May 14 in and around a Houston-bound
tractor-trailer left near a truck stop in Victoria, Tex. Two more died later.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Death on the Border

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 273 words


The gruesome deaths in Texas last week of 19 undocumented migrant workers
stuffed in an airless trailer truck and the White House's cancellation of its
Cinco de Mayo party earlier in the month may seem like unrelated events. They
are.

Yet both say a lot about the dreary state of Mexican-American relations and
President Bush's unfulfilled promise of a new golden age in neighborly ties.

The immigrants' deaths were a heinous crime by a human-smuggling ring, the kind
that has led to the deaths of more than 2,000 people over the past decade. It is
a reminder that Vicente Fox and George Bush have failed to deliver on their
ambitious pledge to craft a landmark immigration agreement that would make it
easier for the United States to fill its labor needs without forcing young
Mexicans to run a deadly gantlet in the desert.

An accord would drive many smugglers out of business and end the persistent
hypocrisy underlying America's attitude toward illegal immigration. Our nation,
as we have said before, virtually posts two signs on its southern border --
"Help Wanted: Inquire Within" and "Do Not Trespass."

After the Sept. 11 attacks, a delay in progress on the immigration issue was to
be expected, but a complete derailment is what happened. Misplaced security
concerns played a role. What could be less desirable, from a homeland security
perspective, than tolerating, needing even, the presence of millions of
immigrants who are undocumented?

Mr. Bush must reverse the relationship's deterioration. Doing so is imperative,
not only to advance Washington's economic and security interests, but also to
save lives on the border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: DOMESTIC SECURITY;
Advocates' Groups to Fight Local Pursuit of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 617 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 13


A coalition of immigration advocacy groups is challenging the Justice
Department's decision to allow state and local police departments to pursue
illegal immigrants as part of the war on terror.

Taking on a job traditionally done by federal agents, a small number of police
departments has begun arresting people accused of civil violations of
immigration law, like overstaying visas, since the Justice Department announced
its new interpretation of existing laws last year, officials say.

Officials say the change was necessary to provide assistance to federal
immigration officers and to remove criminals and potential terrorists from the
streets. But the Justice Department has refused to release the documents on
which it based its decision to advocacy groups, who say the decision violates
the law and undermines confidence in local law enforcement.

Police chiefs in states including Texas, California, Florida and Colorado have
warned that allowing local officials to make immigration arrests would
jeopardize relations with immigrants, who might be less willing to report
crimes. On Monday, a coalition of immigrant groups plans to file a lawsuit in
federal court in New York to force the Justice Department to turn over its
records.

"There are serious legal questions about this," said Cecilia Munoz, a vice
president of the National Council of La Raza, one of seven advocacy groups suing
the government. "But it is difficult to raise those concerns in a meaningful way
if you can't hold up the policy and describe what it is."

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said he did not know the
details of the advocacy groups' efforts to obtain the records. Mr. Martinez said
the new policy was intended to protect public safety and emphasized that local
police chiefs who disagreed with the Justice Department were not obliged to
participate.

"We're concentrating on arresting aliens who have violated criminal provisions
of the Immigration and Naturalization Act or civil provisions that render an
alien deportable," he said. "That's the narrow scope."

The Justice Department's decision to revisit the issue caused an outcry last
year when it first became public.

In 1996, the Justice Department's legal counsel decided that local police
officers were precluded from tracking and arresting illegal immigrants. Such
matters were to be handled by federal immigration officials. That decision was
reiterated in a memorandum in November 2001.

White House officials expressed concern last year when the Justice Department
started to revive the issue. But by June, the Justice Department came up with a
policy that appeared to be acceptable to the Bush administration.

In a letter to the National Immigration Forum last month, Attorney General John
Ashcroft said his legal counsel had determined that immigrants who were
deportable under immigration law and posed threats to national security could be
arrested by local law enforcement.

Mr. Ashcroft said the names of such immigrants were being entered into the
Federal Bureau of Investigation's database.

Timothy Danahey, president of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association,
praised Mr. Ashcroft's decision.

"Immigration law enforcement has been overlooked, and the approximately 2,000
I.N.S. special agents assigned to interior enforcement matters is not adequate,"
he said last week in a Congressional hearing.

But many advocates for immigrants wonder why the government has refused to
release documents describing the policy.

"There is no justification for secret lawmaking," said Lucas Guttentag, a senior
lawyer at the American Civil Liberties Union, which is filing the lawsuit on
behalf of the advocacy groups.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation: Alien Nation;
For Immigrants, the Watchword Suddenly Is Enforcement

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 950 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


IN the annals of Washington policy debates, few have been as emotional, and
seemingly insoluble, as those involving immigration.

Should the government's immigration agencies focus on law enforcement --
policing the borders to block the entry of illegal immigrants -- or on services
to welcome hard-working new immigrants to American shores? Should the
government's priority be keeping the bad guys out, or helping the good guys in?

To a degree that has startled immigrant-rights groups and the many industries
that depend on immigrant labor, and with surprisingly little serious debate on
Capitol Hill or anywhere else, that argument was settled for the time being with
Congress's approval last month of the landmark bill creating the Department of
Homeland Security.

The law appears to represent a decisive victory for advocates of tighter
borders, and immigration lawyers are predicting turmoil next year as millions of
would-be citizens and other immigrants, already confronted with tough new
immigration rules imposed after the Sept. 11 attacks, try to make sense of the
mammoth new agency that will control their fates.

"I think there's going to be total confusion," said Judy Golub, senior director
of advocacy for the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "Our members are
getting a lot of calls from immigrants who feel that they are the ones being
isolated, not the terrorists."

The homeland security bill, passed in the House and Senate by huge, bipartisan
majorities and quickly signed by President Bush, mandates the biggest government
overhaul in half a century, merging 22 federal agencies into the new department,
all tasked with preventing new terrorist attacks on American soil.

Few of the agencies being moved into the new department face a bigger overhaul
than the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has been part of the
Justice Department. Under the reorganization, the nearly 30,000 employees of
I.N.S., , long seen as one of the most dysfunctional and demoralized
bureaucracies in Washington, will be divided into two new agencies, with
law-enforcement programs separated from immigration services like the processing
of green cards and citizenship applications.

Aides to Tom Ridge, the White House domestic-security adviser who has been
nominated by President Bush to run the new department, said their goal is to do
both jobs better.

"Yes, enforcement is the primary responsibility of this department," said Gordon
Johndroe, Mr. Ridge's spokesman. "But this is a welcoming country that was
created by immigrants. And we are going to do as much as we possibly can to make
services more efficient and helpful to the immigrant community."

Advocates on both sides of the immigration debate say they are still trying to
make sense of the massive homeland-security legislation -- its 475 pages are
written in such dense legalese that courts will likely be deciphering it for
decades. But they agree that law-enforcement programs, especially those designed
to block potential terrorists from entering the United States, will take
precedence. They also note that the new department's enforcement arm will have a
much stronger advocate at senior levels of the administration. Given the finite
federal resources and the new priorities, advocates worry that immigrant rights
and services are at risk.

"Enforcement seems to have won the debate," said Mark S. Krikorian, executive
director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington-based group that
backs tighter immigration laws. "Where there's a choice, the government is going
to err on the side of enforcement."

Law-enforcement programs, including border control, will be moved into the newly
created Bureau of Border Security, which will be overseen by Asa Hutchinson, a
former Republican congressman from Arkansas who now runs the Drug Enforcement
Administration and is a White House favorite. Immigration services, which
include the processing of new citizens and of people claiming asylum, will be
moved to the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. The chief of that
bureau has not yet been named.

Whomever that turns out to be, the citizenship bureau will have no clear
equivalent to Mr. Hutchinson to wage its bureaucratic and policy battles.
Instead, the citizenship bureau will report to the deputy secretary - Navy
Secretary Gordon R. England has been nominated for the post - and Mr. England is
sure to have many more pressing duties than worrying about the details of
immigration services.

The Bush administration appeared to signal its priorities for the new department
when the White House last month announced that a veteran federal prosecutor,
Michael J. Garcia, would run the I.N.S. in its final months of existence, and
that he would shepherd the immigration agency into the new homeland security
department.

Mr. Garcia is best known at the Justice Department for his work prosecuting
terrorists, including the planners of the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.
Attorney General John Ashcroft described Mr. Garcia as someone who will "lead
tough enforcement of our immigration laws to protect Americans from terrorism
and protect our homeland."

The naming of Mr. Garcia is cited by immigrant-rights groups as evidence that
the administration intends to erode immigrant rights and to erect new barriers
to immigration as it steps up the war on terrorism.

"Mr. Garcia's entire involvement in immigration issues was as a prosecutor,"
said Angela M. Kelley, deputy director of the National Immigration Forum, a
pro-immigration group. "There is now a tainting of all people who come to this
country as suspected terrorists. For immigrants, the welcome mat is really being
ripped out from under them."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Still beckoning? A model of the Statue of Liberty is reflected
off a Manhattan window. (Marilyn K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE BORDERS;
Progress Seen in Border Tests of ID System

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1045 words

DATELINE: NOGALES, Ariz., Feb. 6


Immigration officials say they are moving rapidly to meet a congressionally
mandated deadline for a sophisticated new identification system to be in use at
its 100 most porous entry points over the next year.

The system will use ID cards encrypted with digital photos, signatures,
biographical information and fingerprints that have been issued by the State
Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service by the millions over
the last five years. Until recently, the immigration service has not had the
machines to read the information on the cards -- a shortcoming that came to
light in Congressional hearings into the 2001 terror attacks. The machines cost
$8,500 each.

For two months the border agency has been testing 30 machines here and at two
other crossing points, in Texas and California, and at three airports. The
initial results seemed promising, officials say. For example, they say the
machines were not fooled by people with similar appearances, catching 150
people, including a woman using her twin sister's card. "Statistically, it's a
very eye-opening number," said Robert Mocny, director of the immigration
service's entry-exit program office.

The machines foiled a variety of sophisticated counterfeit attempts, officials
said. Inspectors spotted cards on which the front photograph was changed to
match the impostor, but the photograph encrypted in the back was still of the
original person.

Even if the system is perfected and put in place at every crossing, officials
acknowledged, it could not prevent every illegal entry because it now only takes
into account Mexican citizens, American permanent residents and Canadian
residents.

But the improved identity system will be the largest program using machines to
compare detailed measurements of features like fingerprints and facial
structure, and would offer a new level of security for the borders, the
officials said.

In the push for better security, many government agencies have explored such
biometric technologies to identify people with fingerprint matching, facial
recognition and iris scanning. But concerns about privacy, rival technology
standards and costs have largely mired progress for projects like standardized
driver's licenses.

The immigration system, which is required by federal legislation, would be the
government's first significant foothold in using machines that track identifying
aspects of the human body. Already 15 million people in North America -- 10
million American green-card holders, 5 million Mexican citizens with special
cards allowing regular border crossings and hundreds of thousands of Canadians
-- have cards, making this program the largest of its type in the world,
government officials say.

Each card is much like a driver's license, except it has a 1.4-inch metallic
strip that holds digitized information much the way a CD holds data. The cards
hold 10,000 times the information on a common magnetic strip on most credit
cards.

"Overnight it will be the largest biometric-based border clearance system ever
attempted," said Richard Norton of the International Biometric Industry
Association.

In addition the program here, the testing is in effect at Los Angeles Airport,
Hartsfield International Airport in Atlanta and San Antonio Airport and the land
entry points of San Ysidro, Calif., and Falcon Dam, Tex.

Immigration officials say document fraud is the most common way to enter the
United States illegally, accounting for about two-thirds of apprehensions. It is
common for people to pay dealers in illicit documents a fee to use a
border-crossing card and mail it back once across.

At the Nogales crossing, people walk up to the checkpoint, hand in their cards
and place a forefinger on a small fingerprint scanner.

The machines scan biographical information, photos and fingerprints off the back
of the cards. The fingerprints are compared only to a recorded image of the
prints on the card, not to a central database of all fingerprints. Inspectors
visually compare people's faces with the photos that come on the screen.

Immigration officials say the special cards store more information and are more
difficult to modify illegally than what the industry calls "smart cards," which
have computer chips embedded in them.

In May 2002, President Bush signed the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry
Reform Act, which requires the government to define a biometric standard for
people entering the country in 2003. By October 2004, the State Department and
immigration service can issue only machine-readable documents that include
biometric identifiers and all ports of entry must have biometric machine
equipment installed.

More notably, the act requires the immigration service to integrate its
databases into a single system that uses the government-defined biometric
standard and can be shared with other agencies, such as the State Department and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

The legislation also requires foreign governments to use biometric technology in
passports.

The lack of uniform standards across the states has largely stymied efforts to
bring biometric technology into common use in the United States. But the push
toward computer-encrypted identity cards worries civil liberties groups.

"With more information systems, there are more opportunities for abuse," said
Marc Rotenberg, executive director of the Electronic Privacy Information Center,
which is pushing the government to release more information on its biometric
plans.

Tying identity to the body is a phenomenon less than half a century old in the
United States, largely driven by a law enforcement need to distinguish
criminals. Until Colorado and California became the first states to put
black-and-white photos on driver's licenses in 1958, identity was generally
captured on sterile pieces of paper detached from the physical body: birth
certificates, Social Security cards and draft cards.

But demand for photo identification has transformed driver's licenses from a
public safety credential into the primary identification document in American
life. Today, even though they adhere to different standards, a number of states
are using biometric technologies such as digital fingerprinting and facial
recognition with their driver's licenses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
U.S. Crackdown Sets Off Unusual Rush to Canada

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., Feb. 21


Once Jalil Mirza decided to leave the United States to avoid possible
deportation, nothing happened quite as he expected, not even goodbye.

As did hundreds of other Pakistanis fleeing a post-9/11 crackdown on illegal
immigrants, Mr. Mirza quit his job, packed up his possessions and headed north
rather than face a forced return to Pakistan.

After a 16-hour bus ride from Virginia with his wife and seven children, he
arrived at the Canadian border, hoping to take advantage of Canada's political
asylum law.

But besieged Canadian officials told him to come back in two weeks. And when he
dragged their suitcases back to the American side, United States immigration
agents promptly arrested him and his two teenage sons, leaving the rest of the
family wailing in despair in the icy cold.

The Mirzas are part of an unusual and chaotic exodus that has jammed land
crossings from the United States into Canada over the past two weeks,
overwhelming immigration officials and refugee aid groups on both sides of the
border.

It is an oddly reluctant migration toward a presumed safe haven by people who
say they do not really want to go but feel compelled to for fear that they could
be deported.

Prompted by rumors of dragnets and by new federal deadlines that require male
foreign visitors, principally those from Muslim and Arab countries, to register
with the government, families that lived illegally but undisturbed in the United
States for years are now rushing to Canada. They get across the border only to
be bounced back into the hands and jails of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Asylum applications to Canada have increased sharply since the beginning of the
year, according to aid workers and officials on both sides of the border. Most
of the applicants are Pakistanis, who are required to register with the American
immigration service by March 21. Other nationality groups also face various
registration deadlines, but have not noticeably flooded the border.

Many of the Pakistani asylum seekers said they decided to flee to Canada because
they knew that Canada was already home to a large and growing population of
Pakistani immigrants, especially in Montreal and Toronto.

Even before the latest upswing this month and last month, Pakistanis accounted
for the largest number of asylum applications to Canada, according to
Citizenship and Immigration Canada.

Refugee aid workers also speculated that the registration requirement hit
Pakistani immigrants harder than other groups because more of them lived
illegally in the United States and had less time to legalize their status
through family ties or employment. A result is that hundreds of would-be
refugees, some from as far away as Texas, are now camped out in Salvation Army
shelters, mosques and other lodgings along the border, waiting for appointments
to apply for asylum and struggling to find money to pay the bond to get their
male relatives out of immigration detention.

Their common refrain, as was Mr. Mirza's, is that they love America and do not
want to leave.

A former restaurant manager in Virginia with four young children born in the
United States, Mr. Mirza, 45, managed to scrape together the $4,500 he needed to
get himself and his older sons out of jail on bond. His family stayed two weeks
in a shelter in Burlington, until today when they had an 8 a.m. appointment with
Canadian immigration officials.

But Mr. Mirza wanted to show, one last time, that his heart was in the United
States. "I'm going to turn and salute the American flag," he said as he
approached the border. "I love America."

Even that plan, though, went awry. In the most prosaic of farewells, after
filling out forms for eight hours he and his family were driven straight to the
Canadian post at St. Bernard Lacolle, Quebec, early in the morning under a milky
overcast sky. No one bothered to stop him on the American side, where the
nearest flag hung limply on a pole in the distance.

"This is one of the most tragic events I've ever witnessed, seeing this exodus
of good, hard-working families," said Patrick Giantonio, executive director of
Vermont Refugee Assistance, which had found the shelter for the Mirzas and
dozens of other Pakistani families trying to reach Canada.

"It's a tragedy not just for their communities," Mr. Giantonio added, "but for
the American community."

Similar stories are playing out all along the northern border.

At crossing points in British Columbia, some 70 people, most of them Pakistanis,
asked for asylum in January. In all of 2002, officials said, only 36 Pakistanis
made refugee claims.

At land crossings into Ontario, 871 people applied for asylum in January, double
the number just two months earlier. Last November, 5 percent of the asylum
seekers were Pakistani. Last month, 49 percent were Pakistani, according to
Canadian immigration officials in Toronto.

Freedom House, an immigrant aid group in Detroit, said that since the beginning
of the year it had registered 269 Muslim asylum seekers trying to reach Canada
in advance of their registration deadlines. Seven out of 10 are Pakistanis, with
the rest Arabs. Normally, the group handles about 30 cases a month.

The surge of asylum seekers coincided with the start in December of a new
registration program for men over the age of 15 who were in the United States on
visitor, student or business visas. Within days, it became clear to foreigners
that anyone registering who had overstayed a visa would be immediately put into
deportation proceedings.

Although the registration law, dating to 1996, applies to all foreign visitors,
the Department of Justice has put it into effect only for men from 25 countries,
all but one of them Arab or Muslim nations. Of the 32,000 men who have
registered so far at immigration offices around the country, according to
officials, more than 3,000 face deportation.

The choices for illegal Muslim immigrants, then, were stark. If they had been in
the United States for more than one year, they no longer had the right to apply
for asylum here. So they could have ignored the registration and risked
deportation, registered and faced deportation or gone back to Pakistan. Or they
could try for asylum in Canada by claiming they would face political persecution
if forced to return home.

They are not only overwhelming service agencies, but have also proved an
embarrassment for the Pakistani government, which has been criticized at home
for not demanding better treatment for its expatriates in exchange for its
cooperation with the United States on fighting terrorism.

After the Pakistani foreign minister protested in Washington this month against
the registration requirement, the deadline for Pakistanis was extended to March
21 from Feb. 21. The change also affected men from Saudi Arabia, who faced the
same deadline.

But the extension is unlikely to stem the tide of people to the Canadian border,
which has always registered shifts in immigration policy on either side with
surges of people seeking asylum in Canada.

The widely held perception is that Canada treats applicants with more leniency,
although its refugee approval rate of 57 percent is not much higher than that of
the United States, which approves 54 percent of asylum cases. Asylum seekers in
the United States are generally placed in detention while their claims are
assessed, however, while those waiting for a decision in Canada are free to
work.

Still, the latest tide of Muslim men and their families took authorities on both
sides by surprise.

Three weeks ago, Canadian border officials at the crossings from northern New
York and Vermont, said they did not have enough workers to handle the numbers of
people asking for refugee status. They began giving applicants appointments for
several weeks later and sending them back to the American side of the border.

In the past when unable to process people on the spot, Canada asked for
assurances from the immigration service that those applicants would not be
arrested after returning to the United States to wait for their interviews. But
last month, Canadian authorities did not bother.

"We realized it was useless because whether or not we got assurances, we could
not process these people," said Rene Mercier, a spokesman for Citizenship and
Immigration Canada.

The United States, in turn, placed dozens of people in deportation proceedings
even if they had documents showing an asylum appointment with Canada. Others,
caught on their way to the border at counterterrorism checkpoints set up by the
United States Customs Service, were arrested on immigration violations.

The arrests split families and left many women and children to fend for
themselves at isolated border posts in some of the coldest weather in years. At
least 50 people remain in detention along the border, unable to post bond.

The immigration service said its agents were simply following procedure.
"Individuals who are illegally in the U.S. are processed the same way we would
process them if we encountered them any other way," said Michael Gilhooly, a
spokesman for the agency.

But it is a shock for those at the border. "I am crying, my wife is crying,"
said Samir Sheik, a Pakistani who had been working as a street vendor in New
York City and was arrested at a checkpoint on his way to the Canadian border for
having overstayed his visa. "It's not fair because I am leaving the country."

Mr. Sheik said that he could not return to Pakistan because he and his wife
married against the wishes of both their families -- "a love marriage," as he
tearfully described it -- and that he feared his wife would be killed by her
father.

His wife, Erim Salim, shuffled silently around the crowded Salvation Army center
in Burlington, where they had been reunited after she borrowed from friends and
neighbors to pay his $5,000 bond.

"She is sick now, mentally," said Mr. Sheik, nodding toward her sadly. "Millions
of people live here and are overstays. Why is it only for Pakistanis and Muslim
people that they do this?"

Hiraj Zafer, a Pakistani cook from Salt Lake City who was also trying to enter
Canada, gave an answer. "After 9/11, people hate us," Mr. Zafer said.

Mr. Sheik said: "Yes, they hate us. But we love America. We feel free here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jalil Mirza and his family waiting on Friday to apply for asylum
in Canada and leave the United States. (Karen Pike for The New York Times)(pg.
A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 27, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jury Clears Tyson Foods in Use of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: CHATTANOOGA, Tenn., March 26


A federal jury acquitted Tyson Foods and three of its managers today of
conspiring to bring illegal immigrants from Latin America to work in their
poultry plants.

The case was closely watched by immigration lawyers and labor leaders because it
focused on the recruitment, employment and treatment of illegal immigrants,
practices in which many large food processing companies are said to engage to
meet staffing needs in low-wage jobs.

Manufacturers' interest in the case was sparked after the government said it
would seek to enact a rarely used forfeiture claim to seek millions of dollars
of Tyson's profits that the company earned during the time that the incidents
were said to have occurred. Tyson also stood to lose several government
contracts.

"This was an effort by the government which was doomed from the beginning," said
Thomas C. Green, Tyson's lead lawyer. "They never had a theory. They never had
proof. But not withstanding that, they brought this case to trial."
Throughout the trial, prosecutors relied heavily on the testimony of former
Tyson employees who pleaded guilty to violating immigration laws and on
undercover immigration agents, who secretly recorded conversations with Tyson
officials.

But defense lawyers argued that none of the evidence linked their client to a
crime. Company officials were mentioned by others, they said, but were never
directly implicated and those who pleaded guilty were rogue employees. They also
said agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service had tried to entrap
Tyson officials by repeatedly seeking meetings with them and insisting that the
company strike a deal to bring undocumented workers into the United States.

Before the case went to the jury, Judge R. Allan Edgar dismissed for lack of
evidence 24 of 36 counts, including the accusations that Tyson had tried to
smuggle workers into the United States.

The jurors, who began deliberations late Tuesday in Federal District Court,
reached a verdict in about five hours.

"I was appalled that the government didn't have more hard evidence than they
had," Barbara Hailey, the jury's forewoman, said. "It was so obvious that they
needed more evidence."

As the verdict was being read this afternoon, lawyers for the defense patted one
another on the back and pumped their fists into the air. Family members of the
three men, who had each been separately charged in the case, began to sob. The
atmosphere became so celebratory, at one point, that the judge had to remind
court observers that the court was still in session.

Mr. Green and his co-counsel, Mark D. Hopson, both said that there were problems
with federal policies on hiring immigrant workers, but that Tyson had not
knowingly violated immigration laws.

"Tyson was the absolute wrong test case for this," said Mr. Hopson, pointing out
that Tyson officials had voluntarily adopted a government-sponsored computer
system for ferreting out fake identification documents. "Tyson was in the 1
percent of employers who volunteered to go on a computerized identification
checking system. Tyson was cooperating with the government every time there was
the slightest wrinkle or knowledge of a hiring problem."

Prosecutors said that they had hoped to send a message that it would not
tolerate the hiring of illegal immigrants.

"Obviously, we're disappointed," said Harry S. Mattice Jr., the United States
attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee. "We're consoled by the fact that
we believe we did the right thing by this prosecution, and had I to do it all
again, we would."

The jury also acquitted Keith Snyder, 44, who managed Tyson's plant in Noel,
Mo., of one count of conspiracy; and Robert Hash, 50, who was the company's
western division vice president, of seven charges including conspiracy and
fraudulent document claims. Both men have been on administrative leave, but
Tyson officials said they would be allowed to come back to work.

Gerald Lankford, a 64-year-old retiree who faced 12 counts including conspiracy
and transporting illegal immigrants, was acquitted of all charges. If convicted,
he could have faced up to 60 years in federal prison.

"It's been a horrendous experience," Mr. Lankford said, his voice quivering. "I
knew from the beginning that I was innocent. We did everything we could to do
things right."

He added, "I feel good and relieved. Of course for me and my family, it makes
you feel like the system works."

Mr. Lankford said that although there were people at Tyson who had done things
wrong, he and the other two men charged had no knowledge of what their
colleagues were doing.

The government began investigating Tyson in 1997, using undercover agents posing
as labor recruiters to track the company's employment practices. Prosecutors
indicted Tyson and six employees in December 2001. Three of those employees
pleaded guilty and were fired. One of those employees, Jimmy Rowland, committed
suicide last April.

Federal agents said that they stumbled onto wrongdoings at Tyson after meeting a
man in Shelbyville, Tenn., who introduced one of the agents to Amador
Anchondo-Rascon, a former Tyson employee who provided fake identification
documents to illegal immigrants.

Like many companies in the manufacturing and food processing industries, Tyson
has had a difficult time keeping workers on its payroll. The company employs
about 120,000 workers, but has a turnover rate of about 75 percent a year, it
said. Since the investigation, the company said it had stopped hiring temporary
workers and raised its wages to make its jobs more competitive.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After a federal jury acquittal of Tyson Foods and three
employees, one defendant, Robert Hash, joined Linda Lankford, the wife of
another defendant, Gerald Lankford, outside the courthouse yesterday.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Convictions For Ex-I.N.S. Officers

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 115 words


Three former immigration officers were convicted of failing to help an illegal
immigrant whose neck was broken after being beaten in a raid in 2001 in Bryan.

The officers, Louis R. Gomez, 37; Richard H. Gonzales, 37; and Carlos Reyna, 43,
of San Antonio, were convicted of denying medical care to the immigrant, Serafin
Olvera-Carrera, who was left a quadriplegic. Eleven months later, Mr.
Olvera-Carrera, of San Luis Potosi, Mexico, suffered heart and respiratory
problems related to his paralysis and was left brain dead. He died after being
taken off life support. The officers, who face 10 to 20 years in prison, said
they thought that Mr. Olvera-Carrera, 47, was faking his injuries.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 14, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Burden Grows for Southwest Hospitals

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 991 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, April 11


Felipe Gomez and a few friends were goofing around, burning ants with gasoline,
when the can caught fire and left Felipe, 12, with burns over 25 percent of his
body. He was admitted to Maricopa Medical Center on March 25 and already his
bill exceeds $55,000, not including costs for skin graft surgery on Wednesday
and daily physician costs. Hospital officials say the weeks of additional
surgery and care he needs will put his final bill well above $250,000.

But Maricopa Medical does not expect to see a penny of it.

Felipe, who lives in Sonora, Mexico, is an illegal immigrant, one of thousands
from Mexico and other countries who find their way into American hospitals every
year for care they can neither get at home nor pay for in the United States,
where federal law requires hospitals to treat emergency needs no matter where
the patient lives.

For years, these patients have strained hospitals and health clinics near the
border, driving some out of business and forcing many to reduce their services.
The American Hospital Association estimated that in 2000, the 24 southernmost
counties from Texas to California accrued $832 million in unpaid medical care, a
quarter of which was directly attributable to illegal immigrants.

Now, the financial pressures are spreading north into larger cities, pushing the
overall unpaid bills well into the billions of dollars and straining a health
care system already stretched thin by rising numbers of uninsured citizens,
inadequate Medicaid payments, ballooning federal and state deficits and federal
laws that allow United States border agents to wave through anyone who claims to
need emergency care.

"The problem is moving well beyond the border states," said Molly Collins, a
policy analyst for the American Hospital Association in Washington. "We don't
have hard data, but it's certainly what we're hearing from hospitals and state
associations. This is a much broader issue."

Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona, a Democrat elected last year, blamed the
federal government for not giving hospitals enough money to pay for care they
are obligated to provide. Bills moving through Congress would relieve some of
the pressure by allocating as much as $1.45 billion a year for five years to
hospitals in states where treatment demands from illegal immigrants are the
greatest. But as Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona Republican and a co-sponsor of one
bill, conceded, "This is a very tough budget year," making prospects of passage
uncertain.

All the while, officials at hospitals throughout the Southwest say they are
treating more illegal immigrants every year. Dr. Michael Christopher, medical
director for the emergency department at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical
Center, a large private nonprofit facility in Phoenix, said Web sites widely
known in Mexico explain the American emergency room laws and some even include
maps leading to his hospital.

While many big-city hospitals are suffering to some degree, providing
uncompensated care to illegal immigrants, perhaps none is facing such imminent
danger as Maricopa Medical, one of the state's largest hospitals, a 540-bed
county-owned facility here that handles about 77,000 emergency room visits a
year and has the only burn center in the Southwest.

With uncompensated care losses in some years approaching $100 million, about 10
percent attributable to illegal immigrants, the hospital is losing doctors and
nurses, delaying improvements and squeezing four patients into rooms built for
two. A study for the Maricopa County Board of Supervisors found that in 2001,
the five biggest health care providers in the county amassed $318 million in
uncompensated care, 23 percent of it by Maricopa Medical.

"This hospital was conceived in the 50's, designed in the 60's, built in the
70's and became obsolete by the 80's," said Mark Hillard, Maricopa's chief
executive, describing the hospital's myriad structural problems.

The hospital's finances have grown so desperate that Maricopa County, which
includes Phoenix, is asking the state for permission to ask voters to increase
county property taxes to generate as much as $50 million a year to keep the
hospital open. If the state approves, which is expected, a ballot initiative
would go before voters in November. Passage then is not so certain. Even with a
state budget deficit approaching $1 billion, Arizonans typically resist tax
increases no matter the need.

"We have a lot of support, but it's not an easy sell," said Don Stapley, a
Maricopa supervisor. "If voters say no, we would start to shut the system down.
That would create a social disaster for the entire community."

It is widely expected that closing Maricopa Medical would send thousands of
patients, including those from local jails, to other hospitals that are also
feeling a financial pinch from illegal immigrants.

Dr. Paul E. Stander, medical director at Good Samaritan Regional Medical Center,
a private nonprofit hospital with 600 beds not far from Maricopa Medical, said
his hospital now treated up to 15 illegal immigrants a day, compared with "just
a few a month" five years ago. Their unpaid bills total as much as $5 million a
year.

As a result, he said, the wait for intensive care beds can last several days,
some emergency room patients can wait as long as 24 hours to see a doctor, and
plans to upgrade equipment have been delayed.

The mounting pressures are causing hospital officials to re-evaluate the
services they provide beyond emergency treatment. For example, he said, doctors
would stabilize a patient with symptoms of gallstones, but not necessarily
remove them.

"It's an uneasy situation for most of us to be in," Dr. Stander said. "As health
care professionals, we usually desire to do whatever we can. But it's clear we
cannot be the provider of choice for all of northern Mexico. It's an impossible
burden for us to take on."

"And all the trends," he added, "would imply that things are going to get
worse."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers at Maricopa Medical Center in Phoenix change bandages
for Felipe Gomez, 12, a Mexican who was badly burned last month. Hospital
officials expect Felipe's bills to exceed $250,000 and to go unpaid. (Jeff
Topping for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT;
Ashcroft Seeks More Power To Pursue Terror Suspects

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1009 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5


Attorney General John Ashcroft today defended the Justice Department's detention
of hundreds of illegal immigrants after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks and urged
Congress to give the authorities still greater power to pursue terrorism
suspects.

Mr. Ashcroft, in five hours of testimony before the House Judiciary Committee,
made his first public comments on a report from his inspector general that
criticized the department's treatment of 762 illegal immigrants after Sept. 11.
He said "we make no apologies" for holding suspects as long necessary to
determine whether they had links to terrorism. In the end, none of the 762
suspects were charged as terrorists.

"Al Qaeda is diminished but not destroyed," Mr. Ashcroft said. He said the
nation "must be vigilant."

We must be unrelenting," he said. "We must not forget that Al Qaeda's primary
terrorist target is the United States of America."

Mr. Ashcroft told lawmakers that the authorities need still greater powers to
track and pursue terrorists.

The USA Patriot Act, as the sweeping antiterrorism law that grew out of the
Sept. 11 attacks is known, has sparked official votes of protest from more than
100 communities around the country because of civil liberties concerns. But Mr.
Ashcroft said the law does not go far enough and "has several weaknesses, which
terrorists could exploit undermining our defenses."

Mr. Ashcroft, a strong proponent of capital punishment, said the penalties for
some terrorism-related crimes should be toughened to include the death penalty.
He also urged Congress to allow the authorities to detain terrorism suspects
before trial without bond and to clarify what constitutes illegal "material
support" of terrorists, the standard the Justice Department has used against
terror suspects.

"We must make it crystal clear that those who train for and fight with a
designated terrorist organization can be charged under the material support
statutes," he said.

Mr. Ashcroft's lengthy and impassioned defense of the Justice Department's
counterterrorism campaign and his push for greater authority met with strong
endorsement from many, but not all, of the Republicans on the judiciary panel.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr., the Republican chairman of the panel,
said that while the Justice Department had made impressive strides in fighting
terrorism, he remained concerned about the potential threat to civil liberties
posed by the long reach of counterterrorism efforts.

"To my mind," Mr. Sensenbrenner said, "the purpose of the Patriot Act is to
secure our liberties and not to undermine them."

Just last month, the Senate rebuffed efforts by senior Republicans to make
permanent some critical provisions of the Patriot Act that are to expire in
2005. The concerns raised by Mr. Sensenbrenner, and echoed in even stronger
terms by virtually all the Democrats on the panel, signaled that Mr. Ashcroft
may face a tough sell in seeking to broaden the Justice Department's authority
to pursue terrorists.

"Some of us find that the collateral damage may be greater than it needs to be
in the conduct of this war," said Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of
California.

Democrats said they were particularly concerned about the report released on
Monday by Glenn A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general. The report
found "significant problems" in the way the authorities arrested and treated
hundreds of illegal immigrants as part of the Sept. 11 investigation. The report
found that the authorities had made little effort to distinguish real terrorist
suspects from those who became ensnared by chance in the investigation. Many
suspects were jailed for months, often without being formally charged or given
access to lawyers, and some inmates in Brooklyn were physically and verbally
abused before they were cleared of any terrorist ties, the report said.

While the report drew no conclusions about the legality of the Justice
Department's actions, Representative Robert C. Scott, Democrat of Virginia,
suggested that the denial of the detainees' civil rights and evidence of
physical assaults by Justice Department employees might have risen to the level
of criminal conduct.

The congressman asked Mr. Ashcroft whether he planned to appoint an outside
counsel to investigate the accusations further, but the attorney general
responded that "I have no plan at this time to employ a special counsel in this
matter."

Mr. Ashcroft said the department's civil rights division had investigated 18
complaints of abuse by guards against immigrant prisoners and had found in 14
cases that there was not enough evidence to bring criminal charges. Four
investigations are pending.

"We do not stand for abuse," he said.

Mr. Ashcroft said he also wished that the department could have resolved cases
against many of the 762 illegal immigrants more quickly.

"God forbid, if we ever have to do this again, we hope that we can clear people
more quickly," he said. "We'd like to clear people as quickly as possible.
There's no interest whatsoever that the United States of America has in holding
innocent people, absolutely none. It's costly. It takes up resources that makes
it difficult for us to do what we need to do with other people who are threats."

But Mr. Ashcroft stressed repeatedly that he believed the policy of detaining
people for as long as it took to clear them of terrorist ties was the right one,
and he said that several illegal immigrants did have terrorist connections that
are still considered suspicious. One suspect was the roommate of one of the
Sept. 11 hijackers, and another was found with "jihad material" and more than 30
pictures of the World Trade Center, Mr. Ashcroft said.

Mr. Ashcroft said past data showed that people who were facing deportation and
were released from custody on bond fled about 85 percent of the time, and he
said he was not willing to take that risk with the suspects apprehended after
the Sept. 11 attacks.

"We had had to balance the risk," Mr. Ashcroft said. And in doing so, he added,
"we did not violate the law."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft testified yesterday before the
House Judiciary Committee, asking that the Patriot Act be strengthened. (Doug
Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Bill Pays For Immigrant Care

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 72 words


Border hospitals that bear the costs of treating illegal immigrants will share
$1 billion over five years under a major health care bill approved by the Senate
Finance Committee.

The committee added the provision to its overhaul of the Medicare system.
Hospitals are required by a federal law to care for anyone who walks through
their doors. The costs of such care have forced several hospitalsto close or
scale back services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 25, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: SECURITY CONCERNS;
Immigrants Feel the Pinch of Post-9/11 Laws

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1316 words

DATELINE: FALLS CHURCH, Va., June 23


Jorge, an illegal immigrant from Honduras, walked into the Department of Motor
Vehicles here this month and applied for a driver's license. Friends of his had
in the past been granted licenses, so he was surprised when he was turned away,
along with more than a dozen other Central American migrant workers.

A new state law, one of many intended to increase security since Sept. 11, 2001,
is squeezing legal and illegal immigrants alike -- and not only those from Arab
and Muslim nations viewed as potential sources of terrorists. Last month,
officials tightened rules that require applicants to prove they have residences
in the state; come January, anyone who cannot prove he or she is in Virginia
legally will not qualify for a license.

This spells trouble for Jorge and the other Central Americans who gather daily
on a bustling corner here, hoping contractors will come by and hire them. The
men say many bosses reserve better-paying positions for laborers who can drive.

"We're just trying to survive," said Jorge, who had been advised by a legal
advocate against allowing his last name to be published. The authorities, he
said, "look at us like we're terrorists."

"Everywhere they're changing the law," he said. "Life is getting harder."

Across the United States, state and federal officials acting out of concern for
national security are applying post-9/11 measures in a way that affects a broad
cross-section of illegal and legal immigrants.

West Virginia and Utah have recently enacted laws that will prevent or make it
difficult for illegal immigrants to get licenses, according to the National
Conference of State Legislatures. Legislators in Georgia blocked a measure that
would have eased such rules. All told, more than a dozen states have considered
such legislation this year, sending waves of anxiety coursing through Hispanic
and Asian communities.

In Texas, social service agencies say some Mexican and Asian illegal immigrants
have responded to the pressure by burrowing deeper underground -- closing bank
accounts and declining to report incidents of domestic violence. People are said
to be increasingly fearful of attracting attention from the local police, whose
powers in some jurisdictions are being increased by the new measures.

Last month, for instance, about 600 Alabama state police officers sat down for
their first classes in civil immigration law. By the end of the year, officials
say, a small team of local police officers there will have the power to arrest
illegal immigrants for the first time in recent memory.

Officials at the Department of Homeland Security say other states have also
expressed interest in using local police officers to enforce civil immigration
laws, but declined to identify them, saying the discussions were still
preliminary.

In California, hundreds of Hispanic and Asian legal immigrants who worked as
baggage screeners in airports are still struggling to make ends meet six months
after losing their jobs because of a federal law requiring such employees to be
American citizens.

Federal agents conducting security sweeps of airports across the country say
they have arrested nearly 1,000 undocumented workers, including many Hispanics
and Asians who had been hired to sweep floors and serve food.

Citing security concerns, the Justice Department has in recent months ruled that
asylum seekers fleeing persecution in Haiti and elsewhere can be indefinitely
detained.

On Capitol Hill this month, Republican members of Congress highlighted risks of
terrorism when they persuaded the Treasury Department to consider barring the
nation's banks from accepting foreign identification cards, primarily from
Mexican and Central American immigrants interested in opening bank accounts.

Politicians in state legislatures and in Congress who support the toughened
approach say it is justified by broad public support, asserting that the 9/11
attacks served to wake up a nation too complacent about immigrants. Virginia in
particular decided to tighten its rules after learning that several of the Sept.
11 hijackers -- some of whom entered the country with valid visas --
fraudulently obtained driver's licenses and state identification cards here.

"Since 9/11, there's more of a concern with illegal immigration," said Senator
Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, who has been working to ensure that police
officials in his state have the right to arrest immigrants for sneaking into the
country or overstaying their visas for the firsttime.

"People want this country to be open," Mr. Sessions said in an interview. "They
want people to be able to come and go. But we've operated essentially with very
little immigration enforcement. The American people want that fixed."

Advocates for immigrants sharply criticize the new measures, saying they
penalize people who have nothing to do with terrorism.

"This is affecting huge numbers of people who have nothing to do with
terrorism," said Michele Waslin, a senior immigration policy analyst the
National Council of La Raza, an advocacy group in Washington. "These measures
make it look like the government is doing something, but we haven't seen
evidence that this is helping them catch the bad guys."

James K. O'Brien, the Republican legislator who sponsored the driver's license
bill in the Virginia Senate, disagreed. He said officials must scrutinize
immigrants more carefully.

Yet Mr. O'Brien and other proponents of immigration restrictions are not winning
every battle.

Despite concerns about terrorism, Maryland and New Mexico have enacted laws
liberalizing access to driver's licenses for immigrants. Virginia's governor
vetoed a measure that would have denied illegal immigrants the right to in-state
tuition. (Maryland's governor took the opposite stance, vetoing a bill that
would have granted illegal immigrants the right to in-state tuition.)

Still, advocates for immigrants say they fear that the waves of restrictions
will spread. One sign of that concern is La Raza's recent publication of a
report titled "Counterterrorism and the Latino Community Since Sept. 11."

"We should be spending our resources on information sharing and intelligence
gathering," said Ms. Waslin, who wrote the report, "rather than broadening the
terrorism profile to include anyone who is not a citizen of the United States."

Among those noncitizens is Cora Conanan, a legal immigrant from the Philippines
who lives in San Francisco. Still reeling from the loss of her job as an airport
baggage screener six months ago, she says she has so far found only temporary
work that does not offer health insurance. She is still trying to understand why
noncitizens can serve in the military but are barred from checking luggage.

Mario Morales Mata, a Guatemalan living in Virginia who is also a legal
immigrant, says he was turned away in May when he tried to renew his state
identification card at the Department of Motor Vehicles.

Officials there raised the objection that his passport listed two surnames while
his green card had only one. Mr. Morales says that he explained that in Central
America people typically use two surnames but that he had adjusted to the
American tradition of using one after more than two decades in this country.

The officials said he would have to get a new green card and Medicaid card that
matched his passport before they would renew his identification card. Mr.
Morales has epilepsy and is still trying to maneuver through the bureaucracy to
make the necessary changes.

Here in Falls Church, the migrant workers chime in with similar complaints. The
men who already have driver's licenses fear that they will not be renewed. And
as the traffic whizzes by, all describe a growing helplessness and frustration.

"Here there are no Iraqis, no Muslims," said Juan, a day laborer from El
Salvador. "We are Central Americans and Mexicans. Yet we are the ones suffering
the consequences here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Central American laborer, waiting for work in Falls Church,
Va., held out his driver's license as he stood with otherimmigrants who do not
have licenses. Virginia recently tightened its rules for obtaining licenses.
(Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum Seekers Suffer Psychological Setbacks, Study Finds

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


A study of inmates in the nation's immigration detention centers has found
rising levels of depression and post-traumatic stress among victims of torture
or persecution who are seeking political asylum in the United States.

The report, by a team of doctors who specialize in the treatment of people
fleeing persecution, found a steady deterioration in the psychological
well-being of asylum seekers over the months and years that they were detained
in the centers, many of which offered little access to counseling and other
mental health services.

In the 2002 fiscal year, more than 9,000 asylum seekers were detained while
awaiting adjudication of their claims, according to government statistics. The
authors of the report based their findings on only a small sampling of that
group, saying that officials at the Department of Homeland Security declined to
grant them access to a larger pool of inmates.

The study, written by Physicians for Human Rights and the Bellevue-New York
University Program for Survivors of Torture, based its findings on interviews
with 70 asylum seekers in 2001 and 2002.

Officials at the Homeland Security Department said today that they had just
received the 220-page report and could not comment on its findings until they
had reviewed it.

Dr. Allen S. Keller, an author of the report, said the findings were "very
disconcerting." The report, "From Persecution to Prison: The Health Consequences
of Detention for Asylum Seekers," will be released on Tuesday.

"The people we interviewed for this study were subjected to the most awful kind
of persecution in their countries," said Dr. Keller, the director of the
Bellevue-New York University program. "They came here seeking safety, seeking
refuge. Instead, what they found was a prison cell."

Seventy-four percent of those interviewed said they had been tortured in their
home countries, and more than half said they were suffering from psychological
problems when they arrived here.

People who seek asylum are detained when they arrive at ports of entry in the
United States. Government officials say detention ensures that people do not
flee before claims are processed.

But 70 percent of those interviewed said their psychological conditions worsened
while they were in detention. Only about 6 percent reported receiving counseling
services.

Many also said that they were treated poorly by immigration officials at
airports and in detention centers.

Abdulai Bah fled Sierra Leone during the civil war there and was held for nearly
four months at the Elizabeth Detention Center in New Jersey. Mr. Bah said he was
terrified because no one explained why he was being detained. He was granted
asylum in Feb. 2001, he said.

"I wasn't expecting to be sent to any prison," said Mr. Bah, 21, in a telephone
interview from his home in Staten Island. "Back in my country, people were
praising the U.S. in terms of democracy and human rights being respected. I
wasn't ready for this."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Doctors and the Poor

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 141 words


To the Editor:

"Hospitals Feeling Strain From Illegal Immigrants" (news article, Aug. 25)
highlights the heavy burden placed upon America's hospitals in the care of
illegal immigrants. What was not said is that doctors have provided
uncompensated care to citizens and illegal immigrants alike for years.

In the past, many doctors could absorb the added costs of indigent care. But
times have changed.

In today's world of decreasing medical reimbursement and increased overhead
expenses, including skyrocketing malpractice insurance premiums, many doctors
are finding it more difficult to provide these valuable services.

Let us not forget the vital role that doctors play in the care of the uninsured.
No realistic solution to this problem can occur without the participation of
America's doctors.

STEVEN BERKOWITZ, M.D.
Neptune, N.J., Aug. 25, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Suspects In Wildfires

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 52 words


Illegal immigrants entering the United States are suspected of causing eight
major Arizona wildfires that charred 68,413 acres this year and cost taxpayers
$5.1 million to fight. Fire officials have not identified suspects in the fires,
but said physical evidence pointed to immigrants at the border crossings.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Campaign Season;
Lawmaker's Immigration Views Fall Flat

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 309 words


For a while, Representative Tom Tancredo, left, a Colorado Republican, was
praised by some constituents for insisting that the Immigration and
Naturalization Service deport Jesus Apodaca, 18, an illegal Mexican immigrant
who graduated with honors last spring from a suburban Denver high school.

Mr.

Tancredo was drawn to the matter after reading an article in The Denver Post in
which Mr. Apodaca expressed chagrin that his family could not afford the
out-of-state tuition charged to illegal residents at the University of Colorado,
which has accepted him into its computer engineering program. Mr. Tancredo, who
has long railed against the nation's porous border with Mexico, argued that Mr.
Apodaca should be sent back to Mexico with his family and any other Mexicans in
the United States illegally.

But Mr. Tancredo is apparently out of step with the friendlier image that the
Republican Party is trying to convey to immigrants, especially Hispanics, the
fastest-growing ethnic group in the United States and one that typically votes
for Democrats. His problem is compounded by the recent assertions of two illegal
immigrants that they helped remodel Mr. Tancredo's house.

Republicans are distancing themselves from Mr. Tancredo's position. Sharon
Castillo, a spokeswoman for the Republican National Committee, said that
Republicans support upholding the law but that Mr. Tancredo's stance runs
counter to President Bush's softer view on foreigners who have lived
constructively and productively in the United States for many years. Mr. Bush
has supported programs that would allow foreign workers here illegally to remain
in the United States without consequence.

"He believes we should be fair and compassionate," Ms. Castillo said of Mr.
Bush, and as far as Mr. Apodaca is concerned, she added, "His family sounds like
it would be in that category."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Five Children of Illegal Immigrants Return to School After the State Intervenes

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 443 words

DATELINE: FAIRVIEW, N.J., Sept. 23


Five children, who were removed from their schools here by the district
superintendent three weeks ago because their mothers were in the United States
illegally, were allowed to return to school today after state education
officials intervened.

The superintendent, David Verducci, had insisted that federal regulations
obligated him to remove them from school when he learned that the mothers'
tourist visas had expired. But state education officials and the lawyer for the
mothers told him that they knew of no such regulation. Instead, they told him
that a 1982 Supreme Court decision had declared that all children in this
country, even if their parents were here illegally, were entitled to a public
school education.

The assistant commissioner of education for the state's northern region, Dr.
Judith Weiss, said she was "not familiar with any regulations that say we must
take immigrant status into consideration, and no one in our legal department
was, either."

"On the contrary," Dr. Weiss said, "I'm waiting for Dr. Verducci to tell me what
regulations he's referring to."

This morning, one of the mothers, Eduviges Medrano, escorted her two children,
her sister's two children and her niece's child to schools in the district,
accompanied by their lawyer, Louis Zayas.

"Thanks be to my God, my children are finally back in school," said Ms. Medrano,
who waits on tables at another sister's restaurant. "My children were so excited
this morning to know they were going to be going back to classes, but they were
nervous, too. I hope no other mother ever has to go through this."

Ms. Medrano, who is from El Salvador, said Dr. Verducci had called her, her
sister and her niece to a meeting the second day of school and asked them their
legal status. Then, she said, he told them, "Do you realize I could call the
I.N.S. on you?"

The children, her two and the children of her sister and her niece, were all
born in Canada, where the families lived for several years before moving to New
Jersey.

On Friday, after learning of the matter from The New York Times, Dr. Weiss
called the superintendent. In that phone call, Dr. Verducci agreed to let the
children back into school, though it took another call from Dr. Weiss to clarify
the matter.

Dr. Verducci did not return calls for comment today, and he did not meet with
Ms. Medrano when she showed up at school with her children at 9 a.m., as he had
said he would.

Dr. Weiss said that at a meeting this week with superintendents from northern
New Jersey, she would remind them that state education law prohibits school
officials from asking about the immigration status of students or their parents.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Fears Migrant Deaths Will Increase With Despair

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 19


Mexico's government, after tentatively identifying 2 of the 11 migrants found
dead in a locked boxcar in Iowa this week, says it fears the deaths are a
harbinger of many more to come.

Roberto Esparza, 23, and his cousin, Omar Esparza, 17, left their hometown of
Los Conos, Aguascalientes, in central Mexico in June. The two men paid a
smuggler $1,500 to bring them to Sarasota, Fla., where they planned to seek
landscaping and construction jobs, their family said.

Mexican consular officials found identification cards for the two men in a
locked boxcar, among the remains of seven men and four women. The boxcar had
been sitting in a rail yard in Denison, Iowa, since leaving the Mexican border
town of Matamoros and crossing into Texas four months ago.

Tens of thousands of Mexicans cross the border every month looking for work in
the United States. They die, on average, at a rate of about one a day.
Typically, they die of exposure and dehydration in the deserts and scrublands
near the borders of Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and California.

The particularly gruesome deaths of the 11 migrants found in Iowa underscored
the desperation driving the migrants from poor farming villages like Los Conos.

Over the past year, illegal immigration appears to have diminished because of
the weakened United States economy and strengthened border surveillance.

But Mexican officials say they fear that the desperation will grow next year.

Throughout central Mexico, hundreds of farming villages like Los Conos, the
Esparzas' hometown, are already all but empty of able-bodied men who have gone
to seek their fortunes in the United States, where they can earn wages 10 times
greater than in Mexico.

On Jan. 1, the North American Free Trade Agreement will eliminate duties on
heavily subsidized American wheat, rice, barley, potatoes, dairy products,
poultry, pork and beef. That will allow the importation of those products to
Mexico at much cheaper prices.

Mexican officials, including Foreign Minister Jorge G. Castaneda, are warning
that the end of tariffs may crush the ability of millions of Mexican farmers to
survive, and drive them north seeking money to feed their families.

Mr. Castaneda and Mexico's president, Vicente Fox, will raise the issue next
week with President Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell at a meeting of
world leaders in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Criticism Of Border Patrols

BYLINE:  NYT

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 96 words


Representative-elect Raul M. Grijalva said he planned to ask for a federal
investigation of private groups that patrol the Mexican border, trying to deter
illegal immigrants.

"These militia and vigilante groups bring a racist and anti-immigrant
perspective," Mr. Grijalva, left, said. A Tombstone newspaper publisher, Chris
Simcox, has started a recruitment drive for his border patrol group, Civil
Homeland Defense. He has denied accusations of racism, saying that the presence
of armed civilians on the border is meant to reduce drug dealing and other
criminal activity.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE INQUIRY;
F.B.I. Issues Alert for Five Illegal Immigrants Uncovered in Investigation of
Terrorism

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 29


The Federal Bureau of Investigation issued an alert today to law enforcement
agencies across the nation to help find five Middle Eastern men who are believed
to have recently entered the country illegally.

The bureau posted photographs of the men and said they had come to the attention
of the authorities in connection with current investigations.

A public statement and the bulletin to law enforcement agencies said, "Although
the F.B.I. has no specific information that these individuals are connected to
any potential terrorist activities, based upon information developed in the
course of ongoing investigations, the F.B.I. would like to locate and question
these persons."

An administration official said it was unclear if the men were simply illegal
immigrants or if they were involved in something connected to terrorist
activities. But the official said the information that the men had probably
entered the United States came from an intelligence investigation connected to
terrorism.

The five men identified as having entered the United States some time around
Dec. 24 are: Abid Noraiz Ali, 24; Iftikhar Khozmai Ali, 21; Mustafa Khan Owasi,
33; Adil Pervez, 19; and Akbar Jamal, 28.

The F.B.I. posted photographs of the men on its Web site, www.fbi.gov, and
warned that the names and birth dates may be false.

One law enforcement official said some authorities believed the men may have
entered the country from Canada.

In New York City, the police increased their counterterrorist efforts as a
result of the warning, said the department's chief spokesman, Michael P.
O'Looney. The names and photographs of the five men listed in the alert have
been sent to all police department commands Mr. O'Looney said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The F.B.I. issued an alert yesterday for five Middle Eastern
men the authorities say entered the United States illegally around Christmas,
saying it wanted to question them. It identified them as, from left: Abid Noraiz
Ali, Iftikhar Khozmai Ali, Mustafa Khan Owasi, Adil Pervez, Akbar Jamal. The
names could be false, officials said. (F.B.I. via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 3, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

9 Die as Pickup Crashes Into Tractor-Trailer

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 318 words

DATELINE: MENLO, Iowa, Jan. 2


A pickup crowded with people suspected of being illegal immigrants slammed into
a tractor-trailer here today, killing all nine people in the pickup.

The pickup crossed the median on Interstate 80 and hit the tractor-trailer
around 2:30 a.m. about 30 miles west of Des Moines, the state patrol said.

"Everyone in the truck was dead," said Fire Chief Ben Gilman, who was the first
official on the scene. "They probably died on impact."

All of the victims were Hispanic, said Sgt. Mike Van Berkum of the state patrol.

"We do have some idea to believe that these folks are not here legally, so it
may take some time to identify them because of that," a spokesman for the
police, Lt. Rob Hansen, said.

The truck had Colorado license plates.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service agent in Des Moines, Estela
Biesemeyer, said the number of people in the pickup, their ethnicity and the
fact they were headed east led investigators to suspect a smuggling operation.

"Smuggling through Iowa has always been here," Ms. Biesemeyer said. "Interstate
80 is a major route these people take from the border."

Ms. Biesemeyer said that smugglers commonly used pickup trucks and vans and that
the immigration agency had intercepted rental trucks that were carrying as many
as 50 passengers.

The agency, she added, would probably contact the consulates of Mexico or El
Salvador to try to identify the victims.

The cause of the crash was under investigation. Chief Berkum said that the roads
were not slippery and that there was no indication that alcohol was involved.

The tractor-trailer driver, William Dean Hansen, 55, was taken to a hospital.
His condition was not released.

The pickup was so badly damaged that troopers could not tell where the victims
had been seated, Lieutenant Hansen said. It was not clear whether the truck bed
had been enclosed.

"Not many vehicles have nine seat belts in them," the lieutenant added.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A pickup carrying nine people crossed the Interstate 80 median
yesterday in Menlo, Iowa, and smashed into a tractor-trailer. The wreck was so
devastating that state troopers could not tell where the victims were seated.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             January 5, 2003 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

South Fork Latinos Flex Political Muscle

BYLINE:   By JULIA C. MEAD

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1043 words


WHEN Pepe Martinez crossed the Mexican border in 1991 as an illegal immigrant,
he had few job prospects, but he brought with him big dreams of owning a
business. He landed in the Hamptons, where the divide between the haves and
have-nots is infamously wide.

While working as a dishwasher at the Hamptons Coffee Company, a cafe in Water
Mill, Mr. Martinez took notes on how other employees roasted coffee beans,
served customers, bargained with vendors and spoke English. One day, when the
manager quit, he asked for the job.

"One of the owners, she said, 'What would people think of a Mexican in front of
the counter?' " Mr. Martinez recalled. "I told her people look at me one way
when I am cleaning. They will look at me a different way when I am the manager."

He got the promotion and in 1999, bought out that co-owner to become a partner
in the business. Now a legal resident, Mr. Martinez, 38, is an owner of two
Hamptons Coffee cafes -- the other is in Westhampton Beach -- and is planning to
open a third in Manhattan.

"I had dreams," he said. "I worked very hard."

Over the last two decades, more and more Hispanic immigrants on the South Fork
are, like Mr. Martinez, capturing a piece of the American dream. And, like him,
they do it in a place that offers limited institutional or governmental
assistance.

Last month, some of them formed an organization that, they hope, will not only
show more recent immigrants the path to success but will also create a unified,
political presence. It is the first group of its kind in eastern Suffolk County
and is viewed with such optimism that the Town of East Hampton has disbanded its
own Hispanic Advisory Board.

The new group, Organizacion Latino Americana, goes by the welcoming acronym OLA.
Its president, Isabel Sepulveda de Scanlon, said that inclusiveness is OLA's
motto. "Latinos are from so many countries -- Ecuador, Chile, Colombia, Mexico,
Argentina, the Dominican Republic, Peru -- and our cultures are very different,"
she said. "Anglos always talk about the Latino community, but really we are many
communities."

Ms. Sepulveda, who was born in Chile, works part time as a private chef to Leon
Uris, the author, and is the host of a Hispanic talk show on public-access
television. OLA's executive board includes an artist, a real estate broker, a
priest, a construction company owner and a school administrator. Among its most
active members and supporters are a restaurateur, a social worker, a gallery
owner, a guidance counselor, a beauty salon owner, an elementary school
principal and a psychologist.

But for every Latino on the South Fork with a house, a car and a profession,
there are hundreds living in poverty with no medical insurance, no education and
no regular employment, Ms. Sepulveda said.

In the South Fork's two towns, East Hampton and Southampton, Latinos constitute
the fastest-growing ethnic group, with about 12 percent of the population,
according to the 2000 census. Since 1990, Southampton's Hispanic population
nearly quadrupled, to 8.6 percent. But the census has been widely criticized for
undercounting minorities, and Ms. Sepulveda noted that a quarter of East Hampton
High School's students are Hispanic.

The dearth of affordable housing forces many Latinos to live in cramped, squalid
quarters, Ms. Sepulveda said, and every morning there are crowds of unemployed
men outside a store in Southampton and the lumberyard in East Hampton, waiting
to be hired as day laborers.

"There are so many, many problems, and no individual person can fix them," Ms.
Sepulveda said. "We have to work together, to speak with one voice. Only then
will we have power."

OLA has set an ambitious agenda, with committees assigned to explore such issues
as housing, immigration, health care, transportation, education, recreation and
government.

As the South Fork moves to accommodate its Spanish-speaking residents,
English-as-a-second-language programs have popped up in schools, libraries and
colleges, and many businesses and government offices have Spanish-speaking
employees who deal with the public.

Southampton Hospital, the region's only hospital, has been sharply criticized
for providing no interpreters, but a few months ago it turned for help to the
Rev. Luigi Hargain, an adviser to OLA and a member of the Ecumenical
Missionaries, an American Catholic order that works with immigrants, especially
Latinos. Now the order's members are either in the hospital or on call around
the clock. They also lead a class on ethnic and racial diversity that is
mandatory for all hospital employees, and they have volunteered to teach Spanish
or English to anyone who wants to learn.

"The hospital is really trying," Father Hargain said.

In his view OLA should focus first on breaking down the language barrier. "The
power of language bestows the power of dignity," he said. Some of his English
students were pharmacists and doctors in their native countries, he pointed out,
"but in the United States they clean houses, wash dishes."

Along with increasing the number of Latinos who can speak and read English,
Father Hargain said, OLA must become a political force if it is to have lasting
impact. Ms. Sepulveda agreed, saying that it would be nonpartisan in its
approach.

Father Hargain said: "My prayer is that it doesn't become another organization
that just talks about nice things. It is demeaning to be given a Christmas
turkey, then ignored the rest of the year. Latinos need political clout for
their entire community."

One reason Hispanic residents have not yet achieved the political strength to
match their numbers is that many came from countries where outspokenness could
be dangerous. "They are too afraid to speak up," Mr. Martinez said. "It is good
that an organization will speak for them."

Diana Weir, an East Hampton town councilwoman of Puerto Rican and Colombian
descent, was the liaison to the town's Hispanic Advisory Committee. She said the
committee wrestled with so many issues outside the town's limited purview that
its members all declined to be reappointed, opting instead to help form OLA.

"They were frustrated," she said. "All they could do was advise the town. They
couldn't lobby in Washington for changes to immigration law or in Albany for
tenants' rights."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 2003



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about the Organizacion Latino Americana, a
new Hispanic group on the South Fork, misstated the name of the cafes in Water
Mill and Westhampton Beach whose co-owners include Pepe Martinez, an adviser to
the group. They are called the Hampton Coffee Company, not Hamptons.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "There are so many, many problems," said Isabel Sepulveda de
Scanlon, the president of a new political organization for Long Island
Hispanics. (Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Rapid Increase In Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 81 words


The number of immigrants living illegally in the United States jumped by one
million in less than four years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
reported. In the latest count, based on statistics from the 2000 census and the
immigration service, roughly seven million immigrants were living illegally in
the United States as of January 2000. Mexicans made up 69 percent, or 4.8
million, of the illegal immigrants in 2000, compared with 58 percent in 1990,
the service said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 9, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jobs and Immigration

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 112 words


To the Editor:

As a black American, I would like to respond to "Hiring in Nation Hits Worst
Slump in Nearly 20 Years" (front page, Feb. 6).

The surge in discouraged workers is going to continue unless America takes back
the jobs that are being held by millions of illegal aliens, jobs that we blacks
used to have.

Instead of asking Congress to pass a 10-year tax cut totaling $670 billion,
President Bush should ask Congress to cut legal immigration by 90 percent for 10
years and deport all illegal immigrants. There is no point in creating new jobs
if we allow illegal immigrants or future newcomers to take those jobs!

JANELLE F. WILLIAMS
Oakland, Calif., Feb. 6, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 16, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BRIEFINGS: IMMIGRATION;
NUMBERS SURGE

BYLINE:  By Jeremy Pearce

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 55 words


The number of illegal immigrants in New Jersey more than doubled in the last
decade, according to estimates last week by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. It says the state is home to 221,000 immigrants without documents, up
from 95,000 in 1990 and representing 3.2 percent of the state's population.
Jeremy Pearce

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 28, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: SECURITY COUNCIL;
Antiwar Fever Puts Mexico In Quandary On Iraq Vote

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON with CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Feb. 27


Mexico holds one of the potentially decisive votes on the United Nations
Security Council for an American-sponsored resolution authorizing war against
Iraq. But its president is in a quandary about how to cast it.

Like other leaders around the world, President Vicente Fox has a citizenry
overwhelming opposed to war -- between 70 and 83 percent, polls show.
Anti-American attitudes have surfaced in political and intellectual circles, and
he desperately needs public support for midterm elections, three months away.

But Mexico also shares a 2,000-mile border with the United States, and no
country in the world sends more illegal immigrants across a border than Mexico
does to the United States. Moreover, since the signing of the North American
Free Trade Agreement 10 years ago, perhaps no other country depends more on the
United States for its economic well-being as does Mexico.

Mr. Fox's predicament was captured in a cartoon published in the Mexican
newspaper Reforma: the president wobbles with a balance pole on a high wire, a
small dove of peace perched at one end of the pole, a hulking American eagle on
the other. Many political analysts think Mr. Fox will ultimately tilt toward the
eagle.

After a telephone conversation with President Bush last weekend, Mr. Fox moved
away from unequivocal calls for peace, warning that Saddam Hussein must disarm.

"The only path toward peace is the disarmament of Iraq," he said in a speech on
Tuesday before a meeting of Mexican and American business leaders. "The world
wants peace, but only the disarmament of the Iraqis can assure peace."

The statement marked a subtle but clear departure for Mr. Fox, whose speeches
about Iraq had previously echoed Pope John Paul II's urgent appeals for peace.
At an event nine days ago and again last week, Mr. Fox publicly prayed for
peace. Then, in a speech to Mexico's military, he said Mexico was "against
unilateralism and against war." As late as last week, he issued a call of "No to
war."

Mr. Fox's positions remain wobbly, strategically couched and ambiguous, as this
country prepares to vote on a United Nations resolution supported by the United
States, Great Britain and Spain that would lead to military action against Iraq.

While his language may be ambiguous, the reason for his ambiguity is clear. If
Mexico follows Washington's lead, said a political analyst, Gabriel Guerra, "the
sign we will have given is that we do not have an independent foreign policy,
that we cannot be a voice and a player on the international stage, because at
the end of the day we do not have a backbone."

More than just reflecting domestic political concerns, however, Mr. Fox's
reluctance to support the United States is also the latest display of how his
relationship with Mr. Bush has cooled.

"The relationship has taken a negative turn," Mr. Guerra said. "Apart from a
honeymoon of rhetoric, Mexico never won anything substantive."

The honeymoon began when Mr. Bush chose Mexico for his first foreign trip as
president, in February 2001. He agreed to begin work on an immigration accord
sought by Mr. Fox, which could have given legal status to some 3.5 million
undocumented Mexicans working in the United States.

Those talks were put off indefinitely after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on
the United States. Since then, Mr. Fox has been unable to make significant
advances for his country on a range of issues, including Mexico's water debt
with the United States, the execution of Mexican nationals on death row and
various agricultural trade issues. In January, the frustrated architect of
Mexico's immigration proposals, Jorge G. Castaneda, resigned as foreign
minister.

At the other end of North America, Canada, which does not hold a seat on the
Security Council, has also been wavering on the Iraq issue. For months, Prime
Minister Jean Chretien and senior officials have contradicted themselves on
whether Iraq posed an immediate threat, and what position Canada would take if
the United States and Great Britain unilaterally invaded Iraq without the
approval of the United Nations

But Mr. Chretien has moved more clearly toward Washington, offering a compromise
Security Council resolution that calls for Iraq to disarm by March 28 or face
war.

"Saddam Hussein is the one who can avoid war, by respecting Resolution 1441 and
by respecting the United Nations," Mr. Chretien said.

Today, both presidents issued more calls for Iraq to disarm in bilateral
meetings here. At a news conference, Mr. Fox denied that his views on the war
had shifted toward those of the United States, saying that Mexico would maintain
its "independence and autonomy." And he said that Mexico would take some of the
points of Canada's proposal into discussions before the Security Council.

"We are opposed to war, like all the world, and as long as there are
alternatives, that is our goal," Mr. Fox said, adding: "If Saddam and Iraq are
not going to comply with the demands of the inspectors, then things change.
Without a doubt, they change for the whole world."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jean Chretien, the Canadian prime minister, right, and President
Vicente Fox of Mexico greeted children in Mexico City yesterday. (Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 2, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE LAW;
Illegal Aliens Travel to Other States for Driver's Licenses

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1586 words


LAURA, an Argentinean, hardly seems to belong to the huddled masses of illegal
Hispanic immigrants. Sheattended college in Buenos Aires and speaks English
well. But like many other illegal immigrants living in Westchester, she traveled
down to North Carolina to apply for a learner's permit, the first step toward
getting that precious piece of plastic: a driver's license.

Laura, 26, arrived in New York 14 months ago. Her version of the American dream
is to finish college, perfect her English, get a job that pays more than the
minimum wage and acquire legal status in the United States. She said she needs
to drive. How else can she go to the classes teaching English as a second
language in Mamaroneck? Or to her $7 per hour job in the Bronx packing clothes
ordered over the Internet?

For more than a year, a friend has picked her up every morning at her Larchmont
apartment, where four people crowd into a one-bedroom, to give her a ride to
work, but she doesn't want to impose on her friend anymore. She has taken cabs
to classes, but that is too expensive.

"You simply cannot live your life in Westchester without driving," lamented
Laura, who asked to withhold her last name because of her illegal status.

Thousands of illegal immigrants who want driver's licenses travel every year
from the Northeast to North Carolina and Tennessee, where the proof of legal
status is not necessary, according to immigrant advocates in New York. Officials
at the Department of Motor Vehicles in those two states say they realize that
illegal immigrants from other states travel there to obtain licenses. Most of
the states in the Northeast, including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut,
require a Social Security number before issuing a driver's license. Illegal
immigrants are ineligible for Social Security numbers.

The Sept. 11 terrorist attacks brought attention in many states to driver's
license requirements. Sixteen of the 19 terrorists held valid driver's licenses
or nondriver's identification cards from states including Virginia and Florida,
and these cards enabled them to board planes, open bank accounts and rent
apartments.

Since then, almost every state has taken measures to toughen its rules,
according to the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. New
Jersey now arranges for the driver's licenses of those without permanent
residence or citizenship to expire with their visas. New York has started to ask
each applicant for an original Social Security card or a letter from the Social
Security Administration explaining the lack of it instead of any document
bearing a Social Security number.

"The 9/11 tragedy made us realize that by issuing people driver's licenses we
give them a lot of liberty," said Matt Burns, a spokesman for the New York State
Department of Motor Vehicles. "We want to prevent people from hurting our
country."

The American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, which represents the
state agencies that issue licenses, is urging Congress to issue uniform rules
regarding the granting of licenses to illegal immigrants instead of leaving it
to each state.

"Motor vehicle agencies are not in the immigration business," said Jason King,
its spokesman. "The immigration issue is larger than the motor vehicle
agencies."

But actions by motor vehicle departments to guard against terrorism have sent
the nation's illegal immigrants, the majority of them Hispanic, into limbo.

These moves come at a time when the United States, which receives roughly a
million immigrants a year, many illegal, is experiencing the largest wave of
immigration in its history, said Prof. Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, an immigration
scholar at Harvard. Roughly 50,000 Hispanic immigrants flowed into Westchester
in the last decade, and most of them are illegal, according the county
government and immigrant advocates. Often living in crowded quarters and
concentrated in a few towns like Ossining and Port Chester, they perform menial
jobs like washing cars and painting houses.

"The public transportation system is awfully bad in Westchester," said Harold
Lasso, the executive director of the Hispanic Resource Center, a nonprofit
organization in Mamaroneck. "To have and maintain a good job, you need to drive.
A lot of employers expect that."

Apprenticeship programs sponsored by unions ,which lead to higher paying jobs,
require people to have cars, he said.

In the summer of 2001, Mr. Lasso and Martha Lopez, the Hispanic liaison to the
county government, asked the D.M.V. to accept the Individual Tax Payer
Identification Number on applications for licenses. The numbers are issued by
the Internal Revenue Service to taxpayers without Social Security numbers
regardless of immigration status. A number of states, like North Carolina,
Tennessee and Utah, accept this number.

"The conversation stopped after 9/11," Mr. Lasso said.

Since then, the New York State D.M.V. has started to ask for the original Social
Security card.

In addition, the state, which depends on a six-point system to establish an
applicant's identity, has made it harder to obtain the six points. Every
applicant needs to show identifying documents worth more than six points in
total. A driver's license from another state, for instance, was worth three
points before the attack. It is worth two now.

The tougher rules in New York have made it more difficult for even legal
immigrants to acquire driver's licenses. Rebecca Liu, a Wall Street banker who
came to the United States from China 13 years ago, was having her work
authorization card renewed by the Immigration and Naturalization Services as she
awaited her green card. She said the D.M.V. officials would not recognize her
pending status as a legal immigration status and declined to issue her a
driver's license.

"The D.M.V. workers are not very conversant in immigration rules," Ms. Liu said.
"There are a lot of nuanced statuses granted by the I.N.S., but the D.M.V. is
not aware of them."

SOON after Sept. 11, 2001, when Mr. Lasso, a native of Colombia and an American
citizen, brought his son, Jao, then 21, to Westchester from Colombia, Jao had to
wait for his green card, first credit card and first cashed check to arrive in
the mail, before he could get a driver's license. The process took four months.

State Assemblyman Felix Ortiz, a Democrat representing part of Brooklyn, has
submitted a bill advocating the use of taxpayer numbers for those applying for
licenses in New York.

"In my district, there are undocumented immigrants driving at this moment who
are risking their lives without licenses or insurance," Mr. Ortiz said. "Giving
them drivers' licenses is also in the interest of the national security. You
will know who these people are. They are already here and they are already
driving."

Mr. Ortiz's bill has yet to be discussed by the Assembly's Committee on
Transportation. If the bill gains support in committees, it will be debated in
the Assembly in April.

Nationally, the opposition against issuing driver's licenses to illegal
immigrants, led by the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a
conservative Washington group lobbying to restrict immigration, has also been
vociferous. The organization contends that the practice poses serious risks to
the national security.

"We have sent action alerts to our members in states where this is an issue,"
said Jack Martin, the organization's special projects director.

The D.M.V. in North Carolina, where illegal immigrants from the states on the
Eastern seaboard go to get their driver's licenses, is aware of its role, said
Wayne J. Hurder, North Carolina's director of driver's license certification. It
started to ask for proof of residency after the terrorist attacks and has
recently stepped up its efforts to detect fraudulent proofs of residency.

Laura, the Argentinean, used a friend's address in North Carolina when she
appliedfor a learner's permit last September. But upon hearing that several
illegal immigrants from New York had been arrested in that state for using false
documents, Laura has postponed heading south to apply for the license itself.
She had arrived in the United States in December 2001, when Argentineans could
travel to this country without visas, but the rule has since changed.

The North Carolina D.M.V. spots between 250 and 300 cases of false documents
every year, said Mr. Hurder, and when it does, the agency calls the police.

Despite criticism from many other states, including Florida and South Carolina,
of North Carolina's still liberal rules, Mr. Hurder stands firm in his
conviction that illegal immigrants should be able to get licenses from the
states where they live.

"The reality is that there are a lot of immigrants and half of them are
undocumented," Mr. Hurder said. "If they are going to drive, I would argue it's
better for them to buy insurance and follow the rules of the road."

Mr. Hurder pointed out that North Carolina has one of the lowest rates of
uninsured motorists -- 6 percent -- in the United States, according to the
American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators.

Some legal scholars question whether a driver's license should qualify as
national identification card at airports, banks and other places, a practice
that became common about three decades ago.

"The problem with using driver's licenses as national I.D. cards is that there
is no national standard," said David A. Harris, a law professor at University of
Toledo and an expert on traffic laws. "That's a very inconsistent way to run an
I.D. system."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jao Lasso, 24, shows off his driver's license outside the New
York State Department of Motor Vehicles office in White Plains. (Susan Farley
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Illegal Immigrants Die in a Field Fire

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 229 words

DATELINE: RAYMONDVILLE, Tex., March 24


At least five illegal immigrants were killed today when fire swept through the
sugar cane field where they were hiding, the authorities said. One person was
injured.

The field was set on fire about 10:30 a.m. as part of harvesting, Sheriff Larry
Spence of Willacy County said.

Minutes after the field was set ablaze, a man ran out yelling that he was on
fire and that there were five more people in the field, Sheriff Spence said. The
man was taken by helicopter to a burn center in Dallas.

Two other men were taken by ambulance to hospitals, where they died, and three
bodies were found in the field.

Sheriff Spence said it was believed that the group was asleep in the field when
the fire was set.

Wind might have caused the fire to burn faster than normal, the sheriff said.

The authorities said they were checking on the identities of the undocumented
immigrants.

The sheriff said one man might have been from Guatemala, but he was unsure about
the others.

The fields are burned every spring to clear weeds and undergrowth so cane stalks
can be harvested.

Normally, signs are posted around the perimeter of sugar cane fields warning of
a planned burn.

Farmers are required to speak through a loudspeaker in English and Spanish,
Sheriff Spence said, to warn of the burn a half-hour before.

Raymondville is about 40 miles north of Brownsville, which is on the Mexican
border.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 15, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tax Day Puts Illegal Immigrants in a Special Bind

BYLINE:  By DAISY HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 970 words


Janette and her husband, Juan, have a continuing argument about taxes. It is not
about who is keeping track of the receipts or who should call the accountant.
They are illegal immigrants, and what they cannot agree about is whether to file
an income tax return.

Once a middle-class professional in Peru, Juan now works in a restaurant in
Nassau County. Fearing prosecution, he insisted that his and his wife's name be
withheld. He argues that filing taxes would expose his illegal status. Janette,
who works as a housekeeper and a baby sitter, counters that filing a return
would show that they are paying their way.

So Janette has filed tax returns since they arrived in New York two years ago.
Juan, who is paid off the books, has not.

"I tell him, 'Look at my sister who's single,' " Janette said. " 'She's filing
taxes. And you? You have a family, and you're not filing.' " Juan remained
skeptical and told her the taxes she paid were "lost money."

While it is the law that illegal immigrants must file returns, deciding to tell
the government details of earned wages and deductions is a hard decision for
many.

If they are paid off the books, reporting to Internal Revenue Service often
means having to pay taxes. If they are using a fake Social Security number to
work, their employers could learn about it. Filing also means running the risk
of alerting the government to their whereabouts.

Despite those risks, filing has its benefits. One is the chance of receiving a
refund. Another is paying toward Social Security benefits that they may be
eligible for in the future. For illegal immigrants who frequently have no
official record of when they entered the United States, the Form 1040 can
provide a record of how long they have been in the country and proof that they
have abided by at least one law. That proof can be helpful if they eventually
legalize their status, immigrant advocates say.

Jose D. Perez, a tax preparer at Circulo de la Hispanidad, a community
organization in Hempstead, N.Y., who helped Janette file her taxes, said he
encouraged illegal immigrants to file. Of the 250 people who filed their taxes
through his organization this year, he said, he estimated that 70 percent of
them were illegal immigrants.

While illegal immigrants are breaking the law by working in the United States,
on April 15 they are like everyone else who earns an income. So in 1996, the
I.R.S. started issuing individual taxpayer identification numbers to illegal
immigrants and foreigners earning money in this country. The agency has issued
about six million identification numbers since the program began; it does not
know how many went to illegal immigrants. In 2000, the agency collected $305
million in taxes from people using the identification numbers and refunded a
sizable amount of that, $271 million.

Janette's income varies between $300 and $600 a month. She paid a few hundred
dollars in taxes last year, although it was hard to do, she said, especially
since their young daughter has asthma and requires costly prescriptions.

"My contribution is small, but I want the government to know," Janette said.
But, for most workers whose employers do not withhold their taxes, the
possibility of having to pay is another reason to avoid filing.

Since he is paid off the books and would have to file as a self-employed worker,
Juan is sure that he would have to pay. He works six days a week, making $400 in
a good week.

"How am I going to pay taxes if I can't buy a pair of shoes for my daughter?"
Juan said. He said his wife was able to pay her taxes chiefly because he is the
one who pays the bulk of the family's bills.

Janette conceded that she did worry, at first, about filing taxes. "I thought it
was a strategy for the government to know about us," she said. "I was afraid to
put us in danger." She asked for advice from immigration lawyers before deciding
to file.

Bruce Friedland, a spokesman for the I.R.S., said tax information was not
routinely shared with the Homeland Security Department or the Justice Department
unless there was cause, although information would be shared if a taxpayer was
being checked in connection with terrorism.

If officials find thatimmigrants have fake Social Security identification, the
workers can be in trouble. Mario, who lives in Bushwick, Brooklyn, works at a
restaurant using a Social Security number that he bought from a friend, and he
received a W-2 Form with that number but filed his taxes with the taxpayer
identification number he was issued. I.R.S. officials said that discrepancy
might cost him his refund and expose him to officials' questions, but tax
preparers working in immigrant communities say that has not happened often. What
is more likely to happen, though, is that an employer will be notified that the
Social Security number is fake and then fire the employee.

"That worries me," Mario said. He expects a refund of more than $2,000 this
year: "It made me happy because that's my money."

Besides refunds, paying taxes also demonstrates "good moral character," said Dan
Smulian, director of training and legal services at the New York Immigration
Coalition. Anytime an illegal immigrant tries to become legal, through
sponsorship or an amnesty program in the future, he said, "you have to show that
you're not going to live on welfare."

Having a good record matters to Janette, who said she was also filing in case
she eventually becomes eligible for Social Security benefits. Her earnings
during her years as an illegal immigrant would count toward those benefits.

Still, Juan is suspicious. "You live here without security," he said. Federal
immigration officials might come tomorrow and order him to leave, he said. But
he also admitted to a fear that other Americans may share: "Not filing and them
coming after me, that worries me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose D. Perez, left, discussing tax-return information with a
client at Circulo de la Hispanidad, a community organization in Hempstead, N.Y.
(Justin Lane for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Sixth Death In Sugar Cane Fire

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 110 words


The last of six illegal immigrants trapped in a fire in a sugar cane field in
which they were hiding after crossing the border has died of burn injuries.
Minutes after the field was set ablaze on March 24 to help clear it for harvest,
the immigrant, Edgar Isidro Rosas Lemus, 20, ran out, screaming that others were
in the field.

Three men died at the scene. A man and a woman died at a hospital. Mr. Lemus, of
Guatemala, was airlifted to a hospital in Dallas, where he died on April 11, the
authorities said. Workers had used a loudspeaker to warn in both Spanish and
English that the 40-acre field near Raymondville in South Texas was about to be
set ablaze.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 23, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Health Care

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 163 words


To the Editor:

Re "Burden Grows for Southwest Hospitals" (news article, April 14):

As a social worker in a major New York hospital, I can say with certainty that
the challenges and limitations of treating illegal immigrants have gone beyond
border states like Arizona and California.

In my work on an inpatient medical unit, I have seen countless illegal
immigrants from Africa, Central America and Mexico, and have struggled to
provide them with the best care possible.

More important than the financial loss to the hospital is the loss to the
patients themselves; their illegal status denies them access to acute and
subacute rehab, home and hospice care, prescription drugs and outpatient
follow-up.

Doctors, nurses and social workers are therefore forced to care for and
discharge patients without the medical services and support that naturalized
citizens receive, a practice frustrating to the providers and unfair to the
patients.

DANIELLE FRIEDMAN
New York, April 14, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTEREFFECTS: IMMIGRANTS;
Illegal Aliens Can Be Held Indefinitely, Ashcroft Says

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


Attorney General John Ashcroft has ruled that illegal immigrants who have no
known links to terrorist groups can be detained indefinitely to address national
security concerns.

Mr. Ashcroft was ruling in the case of a Haitian immigrant who had won the right
to be released on bail while awaiting a decision on his asylum claim. Mr.
Ashcroft did not argue that the man was a security threat, but said that his
release and that of others like him "would tend to encourage further surges of
mass migration from Haiti by sea, with attendant strains on national security
and homeland security resources."

Because immigration judges are part of the Justice Department, rulings made by
Mr. Ashcroft must serve as the basis for any decisions.

The decision will have an immediate effect on Haitian immigrants in Florida. But
Mr. Ashcroft said the nation's immigration judges should rule similarly in bail
hearings involving other illegal immigrants when the government provides
evidence that extended detention is needed to protect the country.

It was unclear how widely the policy would be enforced. But outraged advocates
for immigrants said it would impose unnecessary hardships on immigrants and
asylum seekers who pose no security risk.

This policy shift is the latest effort by the Bush administration to use the
detention of immigrants as a tool to address security concerns and prevent
terrorist attacks. In March, officials said they would detain people from Iraq
and 32 other countries who arrive at airports and border crossings seeking
political asylum.

The government has also detained dozens of immigrants without charge as material
witnesses in terrorism cases.

This is the first time, however, that officials have decided to detain
immigrants who have no links to terrorism in an effort to address broader
security concerns. Until now, judges in bail hearings focused on each individual
immigrant and whether he or she would return to court or pose any danger to
local communities.

Human rights groups, including Amnesty International and the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, sharply criticized the policy shift.

"It's shortsighted, it's wrong and it does not make us safer," said Elisa
Massimino, who runs the Washington office of the lawyers group. "What it means
is that these people will languish in detention without the opportunity to prove
to a judge or anyone else that they don't pose a threat to national security."

David Joseph, the detained Haitian immigrant in question in Mr. Ashcroft's
ruling, scrambled to shore last Oct. 29 along with more than 200 other Haitians
after their boat ran aground off Miami. Mr. Joseph and many others applied for
political asylum.

Immigration advocates and lawmakers from both parties immediately called on the
president and Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida to order the Haitians' release. Some
passengers have been released on bail, but Mr. Ashcroft's decision will ensure
that the rest remain in detention until claims for asylum are decided.

Mr. Ashcroft said his ruling was necessary to discourage mass migration from
Haiti, which he described as a staging point for Pakistanis and Palestinians
hoping to enter the United States illegally, a charge that was disputed by
advocates for immigrants.

He said the Coast Guard was wasting precious resources focusing on Haitians
trying to enter the United States by boat. With the war against terrorists
draining resources, officials lack the capacity to screen Haitian immigrants
individually to determine whether they present national security risks, he said.

"Under these circumstances," Mr. Ashcroft wrote in his decision on April 17, "it
is reasonable to make a determination that aliens arriving under the
circumstances presented by the Oct. 29 influx should be detained rather than
released on bond."

Bill Schulz, the executive director of Amnesty International, said he recognized
the government's right to protect the public from terrorism. But he said
officials also had an obligation to asylum seekers.

"International standards state that the detention of asylum seekers should
normally be avoided and is justified only in limited cases prescribed by law,"
Mr. Schulz said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 4, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: URBAN TACTICS;
Iffy Prospects for a New Dominican ID Card

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 362 words


The Dominican Consulate is planning a move that it hopes will ease the lives of
some of the city's Dominican immigrants. But despite good intentions, its
usefulness may be limited.

As soon as next month, the consulate will start issuing an identification card
known as the matricula consular. With this ID, illegal immigrants would find it
easier to open bank accounts and identify themselves to the police.

"The objective is that this document will serve as identification, proof of
residence and of nationality," said Juan Pena, special assistant to the consul
general, "so those who are in the shadows come out into the light of society,
even if they are illegal."

The Dominican Consulate is copying a Mexican idea that has been remarkably
successful in some parts of the country. In the past year, Mexican consulates
have persuaded dozens of state and local governments to accept the matricula as
a valid form of identification.

Undocumented immigrants often do not carry identification, or carry false
identification. That can pose problems when they deal with the police or other
agencies. New York's 600,000 Dominican immigrants are its largest immigrant
group, and it is estimated that at least tens of thousands of them are in this
country illegally.

"It limits you from growing in this society," said Alexis Hernandez, a Dominican
who arrived last year and overstayed a visitor's visa. Like many illegal
immigrants, he has not been able to open a bank account. He recently had $400
stolen from his Washington Heights apartment. A co-worker had $8,000 stolen.

The Dominican Consulate says it has an agreement with Citibank to accept the
matricula, but government officials are another story. The Police Department and
the state's Department of Motor Vehicles do not accept the Mexican matricula
(although the state has additional requirements for drivers' licenses), and a
Motor Vehicles spokesman said the agency will most likely take a similar
position with the Dominican card. The Police Department has made no decision.
But the consulate cannot begin producing the matricula soon enough for Mr.
Hernandez. "I'll be first in line," he said.   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2nd Group of Trapped People Is Found in a Truck in Texas

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 543 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 16


Eighteen suspected illegal immigrants were found alive today in and near a
sweltering tractor-trailer in southern Texas, a few miles from where 17 people
from Mexico and Central America were found dead on Wednesday after being trapped
in a similar trailer.

It was not clear how long the new group had been in the truck, which was found
at a rest stop on U.S. 59 after a motorist had called the police. The immigrants
appeared to be in relatively good condition. The driver of the truck, whose name
was not released, was arrested.

This afternoon, the driver in the first case, Tyrone M. Williams, 32, of
Schenectady, N.Y., made a second court appearance here on charges of conspiracy
to smuggle, transport and conceal illegal immigrants.

The toll in the first incident climbed to 19 today, with the death of an
unidentified immigrant in a hospital in Victoria, The Associated Press reported.
The 18th victim, who was removed from the truck in full cardiac arrest, died at
another hospital. Six survivors remained hospitalized, and 49 were brought here
as material witnesses against Mr. Williams and at least three other people.

"We are continuing to try to identify all of the different conspirators that are
involved in both gathering the individuals from Central America and Mexico and
then smuggling them across the border," the United States attorney for the
Southern District of Texas, Michael T. Shelby, said this afternoon.

Mr. Shelby said investigators would try to find "the employers who were drawing
these people into the country with the promise of a job."

He said a decision had not been made on seeking the death penalty for Mr.
Williams, who told investigators that he had been paid $2,500 to transport the
migrants from Harlingen, near the border with Mexico.

The prosecutor said Attorney General John Ashcroft was concerned with the
matter.

"He did call me and expressed his keen interest in the case, asked me to keep
him informed on a daily basis, literally, and told me that the highest levels of
the Department of Justice here and in Mexico were interested in the
prosecution," Mr. Shelby said.

Law enforcement officials said they were grappling with an increase in illegal
immigrants who travel in smugglers' trucks and boxcars .

"The tractor-trailer vehicle is the predominant mode of travel being used to
transport undocumented aliens from the U.S.-Mexico border area," Steven E.
Greenwell, an agent with the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
wrote in the complaint against Mr. Williams.

Reports of immigrants crossing the border and making their way north through
Texas arrive almost every day. Ten immigrants were found in a pickup today in
Sugar Land, just southwest of Houston.

On Thursday near the Texas-New Mexico line, 17 people were found in a rail
container car. They appeared to be healthy, although officials estimated that
the temperature in the car was 110 degrees.

In the truck incident today, two sheriff's deputies responded to a call about
suspicious-looking people at the rest stop five miles northeast of Victoria. The
deputies detained the driver on suspicion of smuggling and alerted immigration
officials. Two of the 18 immigrants, both women, were treated for heat
exhaustion at a hospital and released.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: After a call from a motorist, the police yesterday found 18
suspected illegal immigrants in and around this tractor-trailer in southern
Texas. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 21, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Los Angeles County Weighs Cost of Illegal Immigration

BYLINE:   By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 820 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 20


In these wobbling economic times, it was only a question of when public
officials would turn toward illegal immigrants and ask how much of a burden they
pose to taxpayers.

Nowhere is the question more sensitive than in Los Angeles County, where an
estimated 1.1 million illegal immigrants reside. Even so, with the state's
budget shortfall calculated at as much as $38 billion in the next 13 months and
the county's at more than $400 million, it had to come.

Today, a Los Angeles County supervisor, Michael D. Antonovich, a Republican,
introduced a symbolic proposal that would require illegal immigrants to obtain
work permits and their employers to post bonds to pay for their health care
costs.

The proposal, which would require the county to work with federal authorities to
draft such legislation, was defeated without comment in a 3-to-2 vote along
party lines.

His proposal was not an attack on immigrants, Mr. Antonovich said, but an effort
to address two serious problems for the county: unfettered immigration and
financing the $350 million the county pays to provide health care to indigent
workers, who are mostly Mexican.

"We're running an H.M.O. for illegal immigrants," Mr. Antonovich said, "and if
we keep it up, we're going to bankrupt the county."

"This is not a backlash against immigrants," he added. "This is also a way to
give those people some legitimacy, to take them out of the dark, give them legal
protections and tax them for the services they use."

Immigration lawyers said Mr. Antonovich's proposal was flawed, because only
Congress has the ability to make immigration law. They cited Proposition 187,
the statewide referendum that voters approved in 1994 barring illegal immigrants
and their children from receiving public money. A federal court ruled the
proposition unconstitutional because it conflicted with Congressional authority
in immigration law.

These lawyers also said Mr. Antonovich's proposal would do nothing to address
the situation of millions of immigrants without valid working papers who have
settled and made new lives in the United States.

"The problem with proposals like Antonovich's are that they are effectively
guest worker programs," said Thomas A. Saenz, vice president of litigation for
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund. "You're here for a
short period of time and you're required to leave. At a certain point, people
have earned the right to stay here with their families."

The county's health system is the largest safety net for the uninsured in the
nation, and more than 2.5 million people receive treatment from it every year.
It is estimated by county health officials that about 800,000 of those are
illegal immigrants.

State law requires that counties provide medical care for uninsured people, but
the financial obligation has proved so burdensome that the county shut 16
clinics last year.

Earlier this month, a federal judge barred the county from closing a
rehabilitation hospital and from cutting 100 beds at the Los Angeles
County-University of Southern California Medical Center, which would have saved
an estimated $75 million in the first year alone. The judge ruled that such
cutbacks would create dangerous delays in medical treatment and contribute to
the spread of communicable diseases.

Things have gotten so dire, county officials are threatening to stop accepting
the transfer of uninsured or indigent patients from private hospitals, a
practice that lets the private hospitals avoid paying for the patients' care.

Illegal immigrants cost in other areas, officials and economists say, including
education and law enforcement. The state requires that every child age 6 to 18
attend school, regardless of residency status. The number of undocumented
children in the public school system is impossible to determine, though, since
it is illegal for officials to collect information on immigration status.

And the Los Angeles County sheriff, Lee Baca, has had to close facilities and
release nonviolent offenders from jail early to close a two-year, $170 million
budget gap. A large part of that deficit, the sheriff said, comes from housing
illegal immigrants who make up a quarter of the county's inmate population.

"The feds keep dreaming about controlling the borders," Sheriff Baca said. "But
is it a reality or a myth? It doesn't look like a reality and the local taxpayer
suffers."

Whether immigrants cost citizens money remains a point of debate. A 1997 study
by the National Academy of Sciences -- regarded by economists as the most
comprehensive, if flawed, review of the subject -- concluded that immigrants,
over their lifetimes, provide an economic benefit to the country in terms of
taxes versus expenditures.

But it also found that the fiscal impact of an immigrant with less than a high
school education drains the economy of $13,000 over his lifetime, and most
illegal immigrants tend to fall into this category.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 26, 2003



CORRECTION: An article on Wednesday about the cost of health care for illegal
immigrants in Los Angeles misstated the number of people who receive treatment
each year from the county's health system and the number who are illegal
immigrants. The county treats about 800,000 people each year, not 2.5 million.
It estimates that 200,000, not 800,000, are illegal immigrants.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 121 words


To the Editor:

Re "Death on the Border" (editorial, May 19):

The United States can fill its labor needs without inviting in people from other
countries or looking the other way when undocumented workers come in.

With millions of Americans currently poor and unemployed, it makes no sense to
import more workers. But employers want cheap labor; that's why they clamor for
illegal immigrants.

Amnesty is not the answer to the illegal immigrant problem; enforcement is. The
invasion, currently about 80,000 illegal immigrants a month, would end tomorrow
if these illegal immigrants could no longer come here and get jobs, free health
care, education and other rights of American citizens.

LINDA EVANS
Matthews, N.C., May 19, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 27, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Boon

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 95 words


To the Editor:

Re "Los Angeles County Weighs Cost of Illegal Immigration" (news article, May
21):

While Angelenos fret over the cost to their community of illegal immigrants, are
they also computing the enormous personal financial savings they experience by
being able to employ low-cost maids, nannies, gardeners and construction
workers?

Illegal immigrants come here to work. They work hard and they work cheap,
allowing many middle-class people in Southern California to have a lifestyle
they couldn't otherwise afford.

ERICA DABORN
Gloucester, Mass., May 22, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 28, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: 7th Arrest In Immigrant Case

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 113 words


A seventh person has been arrested in connection with a smuggling operation that
left 19 illegal immigrants dead after being packed in a sweltering truck trailer
this month, federal prosecutors said.

The authorities said the arrested woman, Norma Sanchez-Gonzalez, had arranged
for two people to be smuggled to the United States and transported to Houston in
exchange for money. One of those immigrants died in the trailer. Tyrone M.
Williams, the truck driver, was arrested after 17 people were found dead on May
14 in the trailer and around it at a truck stop in Victoria. Two more people
died after being hospitalized. Five others have been arrested and are in
custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants File Suit Against Vigilante Patrols

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 643 words

DATELINE: OS ANGELES, May 29


Hostility along the border with Mexico between American ranchers, illegal
immigrants traveling across their property and armed volunteer groups determined
to keep them out found its way into a Texas court today.

A lawsuit filed in State District Court in Jim Hogg County on behalf of six
illegal immigrants contends that they were robbed, abused and threatened with
murder on the exotic-game ranch of Joseph Sutton.

Three men characterized as members of Ranch Rescue, an armed group dedicated to
patrolling the American border and protecting private property, are listed as
defendants. Ranch Rescue came under scrutiny last year after two Mexicans were
found killed in the Arizona desert.

The lawsuit is believed to be the first where illegal immigrants are challenging
the legality of armed civilian patrols and their ability to detain people. It
seeks the return of money the immigrants say was stolen from their shoes, along
with other unspecified damages.

Those damages could include Mr. Sutton's 5,000-acre ranch about 40 miles
southeast of Laredo, said Joe Berra, a staff lawyer for the Mexican-American
Legal Defense and Educational Fund, one of the lawyers representing the
immigrants.

"What we are saying essentially is that you can't organize paramilitary groups
in Texas," Mr. Berra said. "Whatever our clients did does not justify the
threats and thefts by this group that was protected by this rancher. What we are
saying is that in this country you can't get away with that."
According to the court papers, Raul Ruiz, Jose Rodriguez and Mario Rodriguez
crossed the border and entered Mr. Sutton's ranch on March 7. They were detained
at gunpoint and told to take off their shoes, which contained $3,000 in cash. A
short time later, the papers said, Mr. Sutton arrived, loaded a magazine
cartridge into his gun and told the men he could kill them without it ever being
discovered.

The men were eventually told to walk seven miles through cactus and rattlesnake
country without their shoes, the papers said. They were later picked up by a
sheriff's deputy and taken to a border patrol station, where Mr. Sutton had
dropped off their shoes.

Reached by telephone at his ranch, Mr. Sutton said today that he was unaware
that a lawsuit had been filed. He laughed when told of the accusations and then
broke into a monologue in perfect Spanish.

"I know nothing about money being stolen or people being treated inhumanely,"
Mr. Sutton then said in English. "I speak fluent Spanish because these people
are my friends. I was raised with them."

Mr. Sutton's lawyer, Marvin L. Rader, said of the lawsuit: "We'll have that
sucker removed to federal court in a heartbeat. It puts it in a more fair forum.
The issue here is a poor federal policy that has turned Joe's ranch into a way
station."

Jack Foote, national spokesman and Texas coordinator of Ranch Rescue, whom the
suit accuses of beating two Salvadoran immigrants, is not listed in local
telephone directories, and it was unclear who is representing him.

The lawsuit describes a similar incident on the ranch two weeks after the first.
But a French journalist, Eric Boye, who was photographing the work of Ranch
Rescue told The San Antonio Express-News that he had never seen Mr. Foote or Mr.
Sutton beat or threaten anyone.

The Web site of Ranch Rescue says its mission is to "help private landowners
with the repair of private property destroyed by those mass numbers of criminal
trespassers." Members are said to be armed, to dress commonly in camouflage and
to give their patrols military-type titles like Operation Falcon.

Ranch Rescue is the most prominent of civilian patrol groups that operate across
the nation. Late last year, when Ranch Rescue was investigated in connection
with the killing of two immigrants, the local authorities in Arizona concluded
that it was probably the work of drug gangs.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT;
Ashcroft Defends Detentions as Immigrants Recount Toll

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 874 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


Two very different views of the Justice Department's campaign against terrorism
came into stark focus today, as Attorney General John Ashcroft was sharply
criticized following a report that the authorities mistreated illegal immigrants
arrested after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

At the Justice Department, Mr. Ashcroft was flanked by 11 top prosecutors as he
declared that the federal government was making "steady progress" against
terrorism and that its wide-ranging efforts to prevent another attack are "built
on a solid foundation."

But less than a mile down Constitution Avenue, at a forum on Capitol Hill, one
immigrant after another told of the toll that they said the fight against
terrorism had taken on them. After Sept. 11, 2001, the authorities questioned,
jailed or deported hundreds of people who had no known ties to terrorism.

"If we trample the Constitution in the name of security," Jeanne Butterfield,
director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association and a participant in
the forum, warned, "the terrorists have won."

Mr. Ashcroft's aggressive, 21-month effort to capture terror suspects has
generally enjoyed broad popular and political support, but a report earlier this
week from the Justice Department's inspector general has thrown some of the core
strategies of that effort into doubt.

The report concluded that the department's arrests of 762 illegal immigrants,
most of them Middle Eastern, were plagued with "significant problems." Many of
the suspects were left in jail cells for weeks or months without being formally
charged, with some suffering physical and verbal abuse from their jailers,
investigators found, and few of the detainees proved to have ties to terrorists,
investigators found.

The inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, found that the problems were rooted in
part in an unstated policy that allowed the F.B.I. to keep the suspects in
detention unless it was established that they were not tied to terrorism.

Mr. Ashcroft showed no sign of backing down from his position today as he held a
public roundtable discussion with prosecutors who have pursued counterterrorism
cases around the country.

The attorney general said the number of arrests, financial seizures,
intelligence investigations and other markers for terrorism indicated his
department's success in heading off another attack.

In what has become Mr. Ashcroft's public mantra, he said: "These successes send
a clear message to terrorists here and abroad: We will find you. We will track
you down. We will track down all those who support you. We will not rest until
justice is brought to all who would plot against America and strike against the
freedom we hold so dear."

Mr. Ashcroft did not mention the inspector general's findings, and he left the
briefing room without answering questions about the report.

His spokeswoman, Barbara Comstock, said Mr. Ashcroft did not have time to take
questions about the report because of his schedule. After the report was
released on Monday, Ms. Comstock said, "We make no apologies for finding every
legal way possible to protect the American public from further terrorist
attacks."

Mr. Ashcroft's presentation came a day before he is scheduled to appear before
the House Judiciary Committee. Congressional officials said the attorney general
would no doubt face tough questioning from members of the panel about the
inspector general's report.

"What this report does is it gives a semblance of an independent review
criticizing the department over what all the Democrats and the civil rights
groups have been complaining about," said a Congressional official who spoke on
condition of anonymity. "But it doesn't go so far as to say that Ashcroft broke
the law."

Senator Orrin G. Hatch, the Utah Republican who heads the Judiciary Committee,
has also promised to hold an oversight hearing on the report. Mr. Hatch said the
report showed that the Justice Department "scrupulously followed the law, while
aggressively protecting innocent Americans from future terrorist attacks."

But Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts and a senior member of
the Judiciary Committee, said today that he was deeply troubled by the inspector
general's findings. Mr. Kennedy likened the treatment of post-Sept. 11 detainees
to Japanese-Americans interned during World War II and other episodes "when the
government ran roughshod over basic rights in the name of national security."

The senator's comments came at a Capitol Hill forum sponsored by immigration
rights and civil liberties advocates on treatment of immigrants after Sept. 11,
2001.

Lawmakers and several hundred listeners heard from nine immigrants who
maintained that they and their families had been victimized by the Justice
Department's pursuit of terror suspects.

Nadin Hamoui, a Syrian-born woman who lives in Washington State, said she and
other family members were jailed for months because the government was trying to
deport them. Ms. Hamoui said she feared thather father, a former pilot in Syria
who fled his homeland in 1992, would be killed if he was forced to return.

"This is my home," Ms. Hamoui told the forum, sobbing as she spoke. "I've been
here 11 years and will not be turned away because I am an Arab Muslim."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Attorney General John Ashcroft, left, took part in a roundtable
discussion yesterday in Washington with prosecutors from around the nation. Mr.
Ashcroft is to appear today before the House Judiciary Committee.; Senator
Edward M. Kennedy, right, and Representative Jim McDermott heard testimony
yesterday at a public forum on Capitol Hill. Nine immigrants spoke to the panel
about life after Sept. 11, 2001. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 7, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Thousands of Arabs and Muslims Could Be Deported, Officials Say

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1216 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6


More than 13,000 of the Arab and Muslim men who came forward earlier this year
to register with immigration authorities -- roughly 16 percent of the total --
may now face deportation, government officials say.

Only a handful have been linked to terrorism. But of the 82,000 men older than
16 who registered, more than 13,000 have been found to be living in this country
illegally, officials say.

Many had hoped to win leniency by demonstrating their willingness to cooperate
with the campaign against terror. The men were not promised special treatment,
however, and officials believe that most will be expelled in what is likely to
be the largest wave of deportations after the Sept. 11 attacks.

The government has initiated deportation proceedings, and in immigrant
communities across the country, an exodushas already begun.

Quietly, the fabric of neighborhoods is thinning. Families are packing up; some
are splitting up. Rather than come forward and risk deportation, an unknowable
number of immigrants have burrowed deeper underground. Others have simply left
-- for Canada or for their homeland.

The deportations are a striking example of how the Bush administration
increasingly uses the nation's immigration system as a weapon in the battle
against terror.

For decades, illegal immigrants have often flourished because officials lacked
the staff, resources and political will to deport them. But since the attacks on
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the government has been detaining and
deporting illegal immigrants from countries considered breeding grounds for
terrorists.

"There's been a major shift in our priorities," said Jim Chaparro, acting
director for interior enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security, which
has subsumed the old immigration service.

"We need to focus our enforcement efforts on the biggest threats," Mr. Chaparro
added. "If a loophole can be exploited by an immigrant, it can also be exploited
by a terrorist."

Advocates for immigrants warn that such a strategy -- indeed, the
administration's sweeping reorientation of law enforcement toward terrorism
prevention -- can be abused by government officials.

They note that, though it did not deal directly with the registration program,
an internal Justice Department report was released this week that was deeply
critical of the government's roundup of illegal immigrants after Sept. 11, 2001.
Senior officials were found to have repeatedly ignored calls from immigration
officials to quickly distinguish between the innocent and guilty. As a result,
many people who had no ties to terrorism were jailed unnecessarily, the report
said.

Advocates for immigrants have also accused officials of practicing selective
enforcement by focusing on illegal immigrants from Arab and Muslim nations.
Rather than disrupting communities, they say, the government should improve its
intelligence and prosecution of terrorists.

"What the government is doing is very aggressively targeting particular
nationalities for enforcement of immigration law," said Lucas Guttentag,
director of the immigrants' rights project at the American Civil Liberties
Union. "The identical violation committed by, say, a Mexican immigrant is not
enforced in the same way."

Some of those facing deportation have waited months or years for officials to
process applications to legalize their status. Immigration lawyers say they
believe that a substantial number of these men avoid deportation. Their clients
are only illegal, the lawyers say, because of the government's inefficiency.

Even before the registration program began early this year, the government had
deported hundreds of illegal immigrants in its effort to prevent, and not simply
respond to, terrorist attacks. But the scope of those deportations remains
unclear.

Officials say more than 600 Arab and Muslim illegal immigrants were deported
during the first wave of expulsions after Sept. 11. But the Justice Department
stopped releasing figures after the number of arrested immigrants surged to
1,200, and officials have declined to give complete statistics for that period.

Another wave of deportations began last year after officials said they planned
to find and arrest illegal immigrants who pose security threats and already have
deportation orders. Of that group, more than 3,000 people have been arrested.
Officials say they cannot say how many of those Arab and Muslim men have been
deported.

But it is the special registration program -- which required noncitizens from 25
Arab and Muslim countries to register from December through April -- that seems
likely to produce the largest number of expulsions. In the last two months,
officials have released a succession of tallies of immigrants facing
deportation; the 13,000 figure represents the most up-to-date estimate.

Officials acknowledged that most Arab and Muslim immigrants swept up in
counterterrorism sweeps have no ties to terrorist groups. Of the 82,000 men who
showed up at immigration offices, and tens of thousands more screened at
airports and border crossings in the past six months, 11 have had links to
terrorism.

Still, officials said, they can no longer ignore illegal immigrants from
countries that pose a security risk. They noted that several Sept. 11 hijackers
were in the country illegally at the time of the attacks.

In all, deportations of illegal immigrants from Asian and African countries have
surged by nearly 27 percent in the last two years. The number of Pakistani,
Jordanians, Lebanese and Moroccans deported during that time has doubled, the
statistics show; the number of Egyptians deported has nearly tripled.

In the immigrant communities, the impact multiplies.

The Pakistani Embassy in Washington said that since Sept. 11, more than 15,000
Pakistanis in this country illegally are believed to have left for Canada,
Europe and Pakistan.

Three weeks ago, in Stanton, Calif., Yasser Tair, a Syrian real estate agent,
was deported to the country he left 14 years ago. Mr. Tair's wife, Zhour, and
his two American-born children are also moving.

Their dining room table is already gone. So are the rugs, the children's beds,
the computer. "I am selling everything," Zhour Tair said. "I cannot make it here
anymore."

In Brooklyn, hundreds of illegal immigrants have sought help from the
Arab-American Family Support Center. About 500 of the center's clients who
registered are now fighting deportation in court.

Johanna Habib, the center's only staff lawyer, writes their names and court
dates on an increasingly crowded wall calendar. Some of the men have
American-born children or wives who are citizens or green-card holders. Many
have applications to legalize their immigration status that have been pending
for years.

"We have a handful that are going to be O.K." Ms. Habib said. "But it's a very
small handful."

Abdel Hakim Benbader, a cabdriver from Algeria at the center, said he registered
even though he was living here illegally, because he wanted to help. He said he
thought his future was in the United States. His wife has a green card and his
son is an American citizen.

"We were thinking of buying a house," said Mr. Benbader, who is fighting
deportation. "We were thinking of having good jobs like everybody. If I'm
leaving, it's going to be a big problem."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zhour Tair and her children, Ammar, left, and Danya, plan to
leave California. Mrs. Tair's husband, Yasser Tair, was recently deported. "I am
selling everything," Mrs. Tair says. "I cannot make it here anymore." (J. Emilio
Flores for The New York Times)(pg. A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Harder Line in Farmingville

BYLINE:  By MARY REINHOLZ

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 703 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE


LIKE clockwork, the scenario replays every Saturday morning at Gary's 7-Eleven
on Horseblock Road and North Ocean Avenue: Undocumented Latin American day
laborers gather in clusters along the edges of the parking lot, waiting for
prospective employers to drive by and offer them odd jobs, while a picket line
of whites paces the sidewalk, holding up signs with slogans like "Deport Illegal
Aliens."

The picket line is organized by the Sachem Quality of Life Organization, which
formed after an influx of Mexican and Central American day laborers to
Farmingville brought traffic jams at the 7-Eleven and other shape-up sites,
overcrowding in local houses and what the group says is harassment of local
women.

The group's activities helped to make this blue-collar hamlet a national
flashpoint for the debate on illegal immigration. But after five years of
ineffective picketing and equally ignored calls for stronger enforcement of
federal immigration laws, the group faces an internal struggle over leadership
and ideology, with a hardline faction that speaks ominously of taking up arms.

Last Saturday, the pickets had a guest star: Chris Simcox, 42, publisher of a
small weekly newspaper in Arizona and founder of an volunteer armed watch group,
Civil Homeland Defense, that intercepts illegal immigrants crossing into Arizona
and turns them over to the authorities.

Mr. Simcox, a slightly built, bearded man in blue jeans, was in town to address
the Sachem group's annual conference on immigration control at the Comfort Inn
in Medford.

"There are groups like this walking across the border by the hour," he said of
the day laborers at Gary's 7-Eleven. "Why isn't the I.N.S. here checking every
one of these I.D.'s?"

Walking the picket line behind Mr. Simcox was Ed Person, who claims to be the
Sachem group's new president. "What I want for Long Island is the law enforced,"
said Mr. Person, who declined to state his age or occupation. "If these people
become dangerous because there's organized crime here, then any citizen should
get a gun to protect themselves."

He said he succeeded Margaret Bianculli-Dyber, the group's original president,
on April 22, but the succession is disputed. Ray Wysolmierski, a spokesman for
the group under Ms. Bianculli-Dyber, said that seven of the nine members of the
group's board voted on May 13 to oust Mr. Person. Mr. Person's supporters regard
the action as invalid because several of those who voted to oust him had already
resigned their posts.

Mr. Wysolmierski said the seven board members have formed a new committee that
considers itself the true leadership of the Sachem group. He said the committee
objected to the new leadership's "in your face" style and said it had taken the
group in a more radical direction.

Advocates for immigrants are also concerned about the new tone at Sachem.

"Apparently this new group that has taken over is much more militant," said the
Rev. Allan Ramirez, pastor of the Brookville Reformed Church, who distributed
clothing to Latino day laborers across the street from Gary's 7-Eleven last
Saturday. "They've been advocating militias. They've been advocating the taking
up of arms to defend their properties and their lands and it's very frightening
because the anger that these people seem to be bent on expressing only breeds
violence."

Only about 20 people showed up at the Comfort Inn to hear Mr. Simcox rail
against the federal government's failure to protect America's borders.

The group's new clerk, Joe Sadowski, who last year filed a lawsuit accusing
President Bush and other officials of "aiding and abetting illegal immigrants,"
acknowledged that the low turnout was because of the split in the organization.
"We have an internal problem," he said, adding that the dissenters "believe our
new president, Ed Person, was in a radical form."

JoAnn Russo, Sachem's new vice president and director of its Farmingdale
chapter, said she doesn't see the group changing much under Mr. Person. And she
seemed surprised when asked if a militia might be formed on his watch. "In New
York? It takes nine months to get a carrying permit," she said. "Our
circumstances are totally different from Arizona. Our laws are totally
different."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An internal split has riven the Sachem Quality of Life
Organization in Farmingville. Joe Sadowski, right, the group's new clerk, and
Chris Simcox, founder of an armed watch group in Arizona, addressed a meeting
last weekend. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC SECURITY;
U.S. WILL TIGHTEN RULES ON HOLDING TERROR SUSPECTS

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1256 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12


Federal authorities said today that they planned to use stricter standards for
identifying and locking up terrorist suspects in light of concerns raised in a
recent report that hundreds of illegal immigrants were mistreated after the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Law enforcement officials plan to make at least 12 structural changes that were
recommended in a report issued last week by the Justice Department inspector
general, according to interviews with officials at the agencies affected by the
report. Nine other recommendations are being actively considered, they said.

The move to embrace the bulk of the changes appeared to signal a greater
acknowledgment of shortcomings in antiterrorism and detention policies than
Justice Department officials had publicly admitted.

The recommendations that law enforcement officials have signed off on go to the
heart of the criticisms leveled by the inspector general, officials said, and
could portend significant changes in how illegal immigrants suspected of
terrorism are investigated, arrested and detained.

Inspector General Glenn A. Fine's report found that few of the 762 illegal
immigrants arrested after Sept. 11 had clear ties to terrorism, but that many
were held for months in what the report characterized as harsh conditions, often
without access to lawyers. Inmates in Brooklyn were subjected to physical and
verbal abuse, the report found.

Attorney General John Ashcroft and his aides defended the department's conduct
after the report was released, saying they "make no apologies" for doing
everything in their legal power to aggressively deter another attack on American
soil.

But officials at the Justice Department and the Department of Homeland Security,
which now handles immigration, have been scouring the report to determine how
the problems it spotlighted can best be addressed. About a half-dozen agencies
and offices within the two departments, including the F.B.I., the Bureau of
Prisons and immigration operations, are affected.

Among the 12 recommendations that officials said they were ready to adopt are
developing clearer criteria for determining which illegal immigrants are
terrorist suspects, improving lockup conditions and policies for those in
custody and giving immigration officials -- rather than the F.B.I. -- more
authority to remove a suspect from custody.

Officials at different law enforcement agencies are still reviewing the other
nine recommendations and are likely to accept many of those as well, officials
said, adding that none has been rejected outright. The agencies affected by the
report are expected to give their responses to the inspector general by mid-July
on how they plan to follow up, if at all, on the recommendations.

Immigrant rights advocates cautioned, however, that even if all the
recommendations were adopted, they might not go far enough to ensure that
illegal immigrants suspected of terrorism were given proper access to lawyers,
judicial review and adequate conditions of confinement.

Michael Chertoff, the assistant attorney general who leads the criminal
division, said in a letter to Congress last week that he expected that the
F.B.I. and domestic security officials would develop a better system for
classifying subjects of terrorism investigations "at the appropriate level of
concern."

The inspector general found that the F.B.I., particularly in New York City, made
little attempt to determine whether the illegal immigrants arrested after the
Sept. 11 attacks had true connections to terrorism.

The report suggested that the authorities arrested many illegal immigrants --
most of them Middle Eastern -- who became entangled in the terrorism
investigation by chance through traffic stops, anonymous tips and other means.
Investigators found that many suspects were simply grouped into categories "of
interest" to the terrorism investigations and subjected to restrictive and
sometimes abusive conditions of confinement as a result of that classification.

Mr. Chertoff said he expected the authorities to develop better systems to
classify terrorism suspects, to set deadlines to release those cleared of
terrorist links, to share information among agencies and to formalize a "crisis
management plan" that defines responsibilities in the event of a similar
national emergency.

"These enhancements would further reduce the potential for impinging on civil
liberties," Mr. Chertoff said.

Law enforcement officials said they had already begun to make some structural
and policy changes even before the inspector general's report was released, and
they expected to make a host of further changes to reflect Mr. Fine's highly
critical conclusions.

In one important change, immigration officials said they were no longer waiting
for the F.B.I. to let them know if they could release or deport an illegal
immigrant "of interest" in a terrorism investigation. Instead, immigration
officials began notifying the F.B.I. this year that they planned to remove
someone and then give the F.B.I. the chance to step in if it can show that the
suspect could be linked to terrorism. Officials are now seeking to formalize and
strengthen that policy.

Illegal immigrants taken into custody "will no longer automatically be
considered a special interest case just because they happen to go to the same
flight school or register at the same Department of Motor Vehicles office as one
of the hijackers," a senior immigration official said.

Like others interviewed about the recommendations, the official spoke on the
condition of anonymity because of the topic's sensitivity.

Such changes are being made "really in response to our frustration" over
policies after the Sept. 11 attacks, the immigration official said.

"We were answering to the F.B.I. in more ways than we thought we ever would,"
the official added.

Immigration officials said they expected that the greater level of scrutiny
would be likely to lead to fewer illegal immigrants being identified and
detained as possible terrorism suspects. Fewer than 24 suspects remain in
custody, the official said.

A senior F.B.I. official said the bureau planned to adopt a more consistent set
of criteria for classifying suspects so that illegal immigrants in New York City
were not treated more harshly than those picked up in other parts of the
country. But the official added that the analysis would be case by case, and
that it would not necessarily mean fewer terrorism suspects.

"You have to go for uniformity," the official said. "You can't just raise or
lower the bar. It will depend on the situation."

While F.B.I. officials acknowledged a clear need to refine their internal
policies, they rejected the suggestion from the inspector general that they had
gone too far in the months after Sept. 11.

F.B.I. officials said they believed that the current debate obscured the climate
of public fear and the logistical challenges faced by the F.B.I. after the
attacks.

Joseph Billy Jr., who oversees counterterrorism in the New York office of the
F.B.I., said: "Yes, we're going to work to improve the process. A lot of it is
really about better communication."

"But you have to remember the tenor of the times after 9/11," he said. "New York
had 3,000 people killed. We were the target. Was what we did out of the realm,
considering the times we were in? I don't know."

Among other changes, Justice Department officials have decided to adopt a number
of recommendations from the inspector general concentrating on the treatment of
prisoners, a law enforcement official said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 18, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DETAINEES;
SECRECY IS BACKED ON 9/11 DETAINEES

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17


A sharply divided appeals court ruled today that the Justice Department was
within its rights when it refused to release the names of more than 700 people
arrested for immigration violations in connection with the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks.

The 2-to-1 ruling by a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit upheld the government's contention that disclosing
the names of people arrested on immigration charges after the September 2001
attacks could help Al Qaeda figure out how law-enforcement officials were
conducting the nation's antiterrorist campaign.

The opinion extends a string of significant legal victories, against some
setbacks of lesser importance, for the White House from federal judges as they
begin to rule on challenges to the administration's actions in response to the
terrorist attacks.

An appeals court in Philadelphia has already upheld the right of the
administration to hold hearings in secret on possible immigration violations in
connection with the attacks. Another panel of the District of Columbia Circuit
has ruled that the detainees at the naval base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba are
outside the reach of American constitutional law. And in January, the appeals
court based in Richmond, Va., gave the administration a major victory in ruling
that a wartime president like Mr. Bush could indefinitely detain a United States
citizen captured as an enemy combatant on the battlefield and deny that person
access to a lawyer.

Today's case pitted two fundamental values against each other -- the right of
the public to know details of how its government operates versus the
government's need to keep some information secret to protect national security.

The majority opinion, written by Judge David B. Sentelle, said that courts had
always shown deference to executive branch officials in the field of national
security.

"The need for deference in this case is just as strong as in earlier cases,"
Judge Sentelle wrote in the opinion that was joined by Judge Karen LeCraft
Henderson. "America faces an enemy just as real as its former cold war foes."

Judge Sentelle said that when government officials tell the court that
disclosing the names of the detainees will produce harm, "it is abundantly clear
that the government's top counterterrorism officials are well suited to make
this predictive judgment. Conversely, the judiciary is in an extremely poor
position to second-guess" government views in the field of national security.

Judge David S. Tatel offered a blistering dissent, saying that the majority of
the court was just agreeing with what he said is the Bush administration's
demand to "simply trust its judgment."

Judge Tatel wrote that "by accepting the government's vague, poorly explained
allegations, and by filling in the gaps in the government's case with its own
assumptions about facts absent from the record, this court has converted
deference into acquiescence."

The opinion also demonstrated again the ideological divide on the nation's
appeals courts and especially the District of Columbia Circuit, which is widely
viewed as second in importance only to the Supreme Court. Judges Sentelle and
Henderson are Republican appointees while Judge Tatel is a Democratic appointee.

Kate Martin, the director of the Center for National Security Studies, the lead
plaintiff, said the case will be appealed, either to the full District of
Columbia Circuit or to the Supreme Court.

The case revolved around an effort by several civil liberties groups that had
asserted the Freedom of Information Act required the Justice Department to
disclose the names of those detained on immigration charges. The government
argued that it was entitled to an exception in the law that allowed information
to be withheld for continuing law-enforcement investigations.

Attorney General John Ashcroft argued that while he was obliged by the
Constitution to disclose the names of anyone arrested and charged with a
criminal act, he did not have to do so in the case of those charged with
immigration violations. In addition, he argued that it would violate the privacy
of those arrested on immigration violations.

Today's ruling reversed a lower court decision by Judge Gladys Kessler, who said
that while there were important national security concerns, "unquestionably, the
public's interest in learning the identity of those arrested and detained is
essential to verifying whether the government is operating within the bounds of
law."

A report this month from the Justice Department's inspector general, relying on
information not available to the public, seemed to bolster the case that the
arrests of people on immigration violations demonstrated the kinds of problems
the public is generally entitled to be aware of.

That report found "significant problems"in the way the authorities arrested and
treated hundreds of illegal immigrants as part of the Sept. 11 investigation.
The report concluded that authorities had made little effort to distinguish real
terrorist suspects from those who became ensnared by chance in the
investigation. Many suspects were jailed for months, often without being
formally charged or given access to lawyers, and some inmates in Brooklyn were
physically and verbally abused before they were cleared of any terrorist ties,
the report said.

"This report highlights what we believe is fundamentally wrong with the court's
decision," said Steven Shapiro, the national legal director of the American
Civil Liberties Union, one of the plaintiffs.

"Our whole reason for seeking this is because we believe that secrecy invites
abuse and we now know that from this report that abuses did take place," Mr.
Shapiro said.

The report also asserted that the vast majority of the immigration detainees had
no connection with terrorists. But Judge Sentelle's opinion today said that
declarations by government officials establish "that many of the detainees have
links to terrorism."

Mr. Ashcroft said that "today's ruling is a victory for the Justice Department's
careful measures to safeguard sensitive information about our terrorism
investigations as well as the privacy of individuals who chose not to make
public their connection to the government's probe."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Attorney General John Ashcroft argued that he did not have to
disclose the names of detainees. (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 23, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor's New Immigrant Policy, Intended to Help, Raises Fears

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words


In May, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg issued an executive order altering the way
city workers deal with immigrants. Seven weeks and much confusion later, he has
conceded that he may have to change it.

The mayor, in that order, changed the city's longstanding policy that had
prohibited city agencies from reporting a person's immigration status to federal
authorities, an approach that was meant to protect undocumented but otherwise
law-abiding immigrants seeking medical treatment, police help or other city
services.

Mr. Bloomberg's order reversed course, and now there is nothing stopping city
workers from doing what they had not done for more than a decade: reporting
illegal immigrants. The mayor said he had to make the change to comply with new
federal laws and a court decision.

But at the same time, in an effort to limit the change's impact, the mayor
ordered that city workers could inquire about someone's status only in certain
instances.

In the mayor's view, the switch from a "don't tell" to a "don't ask" policy
effectively preserves New York City's tradition of welcoming newcomers so they
will report crimes, enroll their children in school and take advantage of public
health programs.

"The operating principle is you don't ask, so information doesn't get into a
note or a database or a file," said John Feinblatt, the mayor's criminal justice
coordinator.

But Mr. Bloomberg has had trouble getting that message across. What he presented
as a nuanced approach has inflamed many people who work with immigrants and
frightened many immigrants themselves.

City Council members and immigrant advocates have accused the mayor of
abandoning an approach that had been working for years. Going further, much of
the ethnic press has portrayed the mayor as anti-immigrant, a politically toxic
charge in a city where 37 percent of the population is foreign-born and 14
percent of families include at least one undocumented person.

In one of the most damaging broadsides, the influential Spanish-language paper
El Diario ran a front-page picture of the mayor earlier this month over a
headline that neatly flipped his intended message. "If you're illegal," it said,
"you will be reported."

Mr. Bloomberg and his aides have dismissed much of the criticism as
fear-mongering by what they call special interests. But they have acknowledged
that some immigrants have been panicked by what they have heard and read about
the new order, instead of reassured.

"So although the mayor believes on the merits it is a good order, he is
considering revising it because of the harm its misconceptions have caused,"
said Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary.

In interviews, some of those who work regularly with immigrants said they knew
of no case so far in which a city worker had reported an illegal immigrant, and
administration officials said they had seen no evidence that fewer immigrants
were seeking city services.

Mr. Bloomberg's willingness to rethink the order comes at a point when his
approval ratings have sunk to a new low, accenting the need to burnish his image
for the many voters who first came to the city as immigrants and still worry
about the fate of illegal immigrants.

"There has been substantial damage to him in the Latino and broader immigrant
community," said Hiram Monserrate, a Democratic City Council member from Queens
and the mayor's chief nemesis on the issue. "I think there were errors made and
things should have been done differently."

Members of the mayor's staff have been meeting with Mr. Monserrate every few
days for the last two weeks in an attempt to amend the order and win the backing
of the councilman, who has introduced a rival confidentiality proposal that
would offer broader protections for immigrants.

Political analysts say the mayor apparently failed to foresee how explosive the
new executive order might be.

"It seems like a move that was fostered by lawyers in City Hall without a lot of
political vetting," said John H. Mollenkopf, director of the Center for Urban
Research at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York.

The political risks for the mayor could be substantial. While all immigrants
cannot necessarily vote, they are likely to have family members, friends and
neighbors who are citizens and do vote.

"Given the general erosion of his position in the opinion polls, Bloomberg
really needs to have a strategy for rebuilding support in these constituencies,"
Dr. Mollenkopf said.

The mayor issued his own confidentiality policy for immigrants, known as
Executive Order 34, because the previous policy had been invalidated by a
federal court. That court decision left immigrants in the city without any
formal protection from being asked about their status.

The old policy, begun by Mayor Edward I. Koch 14 years ago, told city agencies
to keep immigration information to themselves. But in 1996, Congress passed a
law that said local governments could not stop their employees from voluntarily
turning over information about an illegal immigrant to federal agents.

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani refused to rescind the New York City policy and asked
for a judgment on its legality. The city lost. In 1999, the United States Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit ruled that the "don't tell" policy was
illegal.

The mayor and his aides say they did their best to write the new order with
sensitivity.

Mr. Bloomberg's order prohibits city workers from inquiring into someone's
immigration status except when it is relevant to providing a city service or
required by law to determine eligibility for a benefit like federally subsidized
housing.

In the case of police officers, the mayor's order stated only that the Police
Department should continue the longstanding policy of cooperation with federal
authorities in investigating and arresting noncitizens suspected of criminal
activity.

But a more detailed rule was set out in a separate order, issued by Police
Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly last month, that prohibited officers from asking
about immigration status from crime victims or witnesses, and continued
requiring officers to notify federal authorities when they arrest a noncitizen.

Over the past two years, nearly identical policies have been adopted in many
cities around the country, most recently in Portland, Ore., Fresno, Calif., and
Minneapolis. Each time, the "don't ask" rule was hailed as a victory for
immigrants.

But Mr. Bloomberg failed to sell his policy, a repetition of what some critics
and political analysts regard as a chronic and damaging problem for his
administration.

"I think Bloomberg has really reached out to the minority community, to blacks
and Hispanics, more than any mayor other than Dave Dinkins," said Fernando
Mateo, a Dominican-American activist and past Republican Party fund-raiser. "But
the truth of the matter is, he's not getting the credit or the warmth."

The political damage can only get worse unless the mayor forcefully clarifies
what the executive order was meant to do, Mr. Mateo added. "If he doesn't do it,
he's just leaving room for other politicians to take potshots at him."

But some of Mr. Bloomberg's critics say his policy is flawed and that the order
does not go far enough to build a wall between city workers, who may run across
illegal immigrants, and immigration agents, who may want to try to deport them.

Councilman Monserrate said the police, for example, now have "carte blanche" to
notify federal authorities about illegal immigrants whom they may stop for
questioning but do not place under arrest.

The mayor's aides denied it. "We have no interest in having cops being an arm of
the I.N.S.," said Mr. Skyler, referring to the federal immigration enforcement
agency, now part of the Department of Homeland Security.

But the controversy over the order has unfolded against a backdrop of fear.
Immigrant advocates say the Bush administration's aggressive policy of arresting
illegal immigrants, especially Muslims, has left many immigrants terrified of
dealing with any government agency.

Some Republicans in Congress have tried to pass legislation to punish cities
that do not require their police officers to report illegal immigrants to
federal authorities.

The debate has put immigrants on edge. The House of Representatives voted down
an amendment last month that would have denied federal funds to so-called
sanctuary cities.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 10, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Real Consequences Of Illegal Immigrants

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 431 words


One can count on the Rev. Allan Ramirez to exploit any opportunity to push the
interests of illegal immigrants and promote their ongoing invasion of the United
States. His July 27 letter uses the recent firebombing of a house inhabited by
illegal aliens in Farmingville to castigate the local citizens as violent and
raise the cry of racism.

If the firebombing was an attack on a family for being illegals, the act is
reprehensible and those involved should suffer the full consequences of the law.
Such an act would also be manifestation of the frustration and rage felt by
hard-working, tax-paying Americans who are betrayed by every level of American
government -- local, state and, most importantly, federal -- when it comes to
defending America's borders and protecting its citizens from the illegal aliens.

The real issue is not race or color. It is numbers, cost and crime.

In a recent conversation, a contractor stated that the number of day workers,
mostly illegal, congregating in Farmingville may reach 1,000 on some days. Large
numbers throw trash around, urinate publicly and harass women. Indeed, in
neighborhoods throughout the Island that have seen the appearance of hordes of
day laborers, the quality of life has declined for American citizens, and
property values of nearby neighborhoods have fallen as well.

The illegal workers certainly are cheaper than native-born Americans, but the
value of the menial jobs most perform -- landscaping, unskilled labor -- is
exceeded by the real costs of their presence -- overpopulated schools, larger
classes and more expenditure for bilingual and special-ed programs. Illegals
commonly use food stamps and other forms of welfare, driving up these costs, and
they have been major users of public health allocations and emergency medical
services, all of which translate into higher taxes, which few of them pay. The
landscapers and construction companies are well satisfied with their cheap labor
because they can shunt off the real costs to everyone else.

It is true that most of the illegals are only seeking work. But there are a
significant number among them who are involved in crime. The MS-13 gang,
comprised of Central American immigrants, primarily Salvadorans, is now the
largest and most violent on the Island.

Without control of the borders, where this current disaster begins, homeland
security will remain a joke. The disputes at Farmingville are simply a local
manifestation of a national crisis, and the problems will persist until
governments take their collective heads out of the sand.

H.F. Hazelbaker
Woodbury

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mayor Renews Talks On Immigrant Policy

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 206 words


Just minutes before members of the City Council planned to declare an impasse
yesterday in their efforts to get Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to amend a policy
on how city workers should deal with illegal immigrants, the mayor called them
back to the negotiating table.

Mayor Bloomberg's decision to personally call one of his most outspoken critics
on the issue, Councilman Hiram Monserrate of Queens, and to form a new group to
try once more to reach a compromise reflects how politically sensitive the
matter has become for him.

For years the city forbade its workers from disclosing information on a person's
immigration status to federal authorities, so as not to discourage illegal
immigrants from reporting crimes, seeking medical help or getting other vital
services. But after Congress changed the law, a federal court ruled that the
city's policy was illegal.

So the mayor issued a new policy, effectively replacing the old "don't tell" one
with a new "don't ask" one in all but a few cases. But the outcry that greeted
the decision might be enough by itself to frighten people without green cards
from seeking city services. So he agreed to amend the policy. So far efforts to
find common ground with the Council have failed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 11, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Australia to Continue Sending Asylum-Seekers to Island Camps

BYLINE:  Agence France-Presse

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 250 words

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Dec. 10


Australia and Nauru have agreed to extend a much-criticized agreement allowing
Australia to detain up to 1,500 asylum-seekers in camps on Nauru, a remote
island state in the Pacific Ocean, officials said today.

The Australian foreign minister, Alexander Downer, said Nauru had agreed to
maintain the detention centers in exchange for an additional $8.2 million in
Australian aid. Mr.

Downer said he signed the agreement on Monday with President Rene Harris of
Nauru, replacing an agreement that was made a year ago.

Australia also finances camps on Manus in Papua New Guinea.

The American group Human Rights Watch issued a highly critical report today
about the use of the remote detention centers, saying they violate international
norms. The report says the people in the centers face "abuses of arbitrary
detention, lack of due process in asylum procedures and denial of family
reunification."

Faced with a wave of people being transported to Australia, many from
Afghanistan and Iraq, by smugglers in small boats, the Australian government
adopted a hard-line policy a year ago, barring entry to anyone who arrives
without authorization and detaining all those who make it to the country's
shores. Many of those seeking asylum were placed in camps within Australia,
leading to protests, some of them violent.

Mr. Downer said 708 people were being detained on Nauru. The number is expected
to drop to about 300, he said, as many give up hope of gaining refugee status
and agree to return home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 20, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Desperate, or Hopeful, Act

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

Re your Oct. 17 editorial "An Insufferable Risk," it is not a sense of
desperation that drives aliens into the United States, but the rather the
obvious ease with which aliens may enter and stay.

Clearly, it is quite easy to enter the United States illegally; it is estimated
that some five million illegal aliens presently reside in our country.

So the focus of aliens trying to enter the United States is how to make the
border-crossing as easy as possible. After all, if someone trying to enter the
United States along the Mexican border is caught, he may not necessarily be
prosecuted.

The tragic fate of these individuals cannot be attributed to desperation, but
only a gambit gone horribly wrong. It was supposed to be easy, but it cost them
their lives.

MARK PERDUE
Falls Church, Va., Oct. 17, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: AFRICAN INVESTIGATION;
Kenya Clears Fishermen, Saying They Had No Ties to Attackers

BYLINE:  By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 504 words

DATELINE: NAIROBI, Kenya, Dec. 13


The Kenyan police said today that nine Somali and Pakistani fishermen who had
been detained in connection with the attacks last month in Mombasa were not
involved but would be deported for entering the country illegally.

A Kenyan court ordered the police to release on bail two others who were being
held for questioning, the mother and older brother of a young man investigators
still consider a suspect in the bombing of the Paradise hotel in Mombasa.

Since the hotel bombing on Nov. 28 and the almost simultaneous failed missile
attack on a chartered airliner, the Kenyan police have been rounding up numerous
people for questioning, including an American tourist and her Spanish husband.
One after another, most of them have been released after investigators have
cleared them of involvement in the attacks.

The nine fishermen were picked up by authorities at the Mombasa port several
days before the attacks for not having proper identification. After the attacks,
the police suspected that they might have transported the weapons used in the
attacks on their boat, which had been in Pakistan and Somalia before arriving in
Kenya.

But William Langat, the deputy police commissioner coordinating the
investigation, said today that he no longer believed that the men had any links
to the attackers.

In court today, Chief Magistrate Hanna Okwengu found the nine fishermen guilty
of entering Kenya illegally and ordered them to pay about $620 each or serve a
year in jail, after which they would be deported.

In another court, a judge ordered the release on bail of the mother and older
brother of Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, a Kenyan born in 1979 who the police say was
the one who purchased the sports utility vehicle used in the hotel bombing.

Mr. Nabhan's whereabouts are unknown, as are those of his wife and daughter. The
police released a photograph of Mr. Nabhan this week, along with the photographs
of three other men believed to have been involved in the attacks. The police
said they were holding Mr. Nabhan's mother and brother in an effort to gain more
information about the family.

But a family lawyer, Taib Ali Taib, challenged their detentions and won their
release on bail today. High Court Justice Laurence Ouna ordered them released as
long as they paid $64,000 in bail, surrendered their passports and reported to
the police once a week. It was unclear today whether the family would come up
with the money.

The judge said their continued detention was unnecessary because they were not
cooperating with investigators. Still, he said he was imposing strict conditions
on their release to ensure that they did not leave the country.

Mr. Taib contended that the relatives, Esha Abdallah Nabhan, 50, and Muhammad
Ali Saleh Nabhan, 32, were subjected to harsh interrogations by Israeli and
American investigators, and he challenged the foreigners' right to conduct the
investigation. The judge ordered the police commissioner to explain under which
law the F.B.I. and Mossad investigators were questioning the pair.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, whom the police link to the hotel
bombing. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 26, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 60 words


An article on Wednesday about the cost of health care for illegal immigrants in
Los Angeles misstated the number of people who receive treatment each year from
the county's health system and the number who are illegal immigrants. The county
treats about 800,000 people each year, not 2.5 million. It estimates that
200,000, not 800,000, are illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-01-03: ENCOUNTER;
Homegrown Homeland Defense

BYLINE:  By Austin Bunn;  Austin Bunn is a frequent contributor to the magazine.

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1445 words


The briefing takes place at dawn, about two miles from Arizona's southern
frontier,in the driveway of a low-slung house with, perhaps not incidentally, a
raised metal platform facing Mexico. Glenn Spencer's group checks for optics
(binoculars), specs out their positions on a topo map and decides who gets to be
"Delta," "Romeo" and "Foxtrot." Then, they caravan in trucks and S.U.V.'s to a
private ranch northeast of Douglas, six blank miles from the border. There's no
shade, just desert specked with mesquite shrubs, yuccas and prickly pear --
basically sand plus thorns.

The first report of the day squawks over the walkie-talkie: "Be advised," says
Spencer, the leader of this patrol. "Border Patrol just apprehended 30 S.B.I.'s
just south of Naco." Michael King, Spencer's technical director and a 12-year
veteran of the National Guard, explains that S.B.I. stands for "suspected border
intruders," which is what we're watching for this morning. "We use that term
because we don't know if they're illegals or not," King says. "Hey, they could
be a bunch of very lost Mexican hikers. Not likely, but still."

The group stops in a bleak acre, and Spencer jumps to work. He's 65 years old,
gray-haired and grandfatherly, but he's almost giddy with excitement. It's the
final minutes of morning, when U.S. Border Patrol shifts are changing over, and
a peak time for S.B.I. movement. While King sets up the satellite dish and the
seven others scatter to high positions with their binoculars, Spencer revs his
all-terrain vehicle and dons goggles for a little reconnaissance. "We have to go
check the arroyos and cuts, because we can't get visuals down in there," he
says, and he's off in a deliberate cloud of dust.

This is the work of American Border Patrol, an emergent and entirely unofficial
wing of the country's homeland defense. Last summer, Spencer moved with his wife
out from Los Angeles to Sierra Vista, Ariz., to start A.B.P., what he calls a
neighborhood watch of the Arizona border. Since this ranch is not a neighborhood
but forsaken desert, A.B.P. is more accurately a roving bureau of traffic
reporters, dedicated to documenting illegal immigration where it happens. With
satellite dishes, ground sensors and dozens of "hawkeye" spotters to call in
sightings, A.B.P. tracks S.B.I., films them and notifies the Border Patrol while
they upload the film live to the Internet. In quasi-military operations like
this one, Spencer estimates that A.B.P. has helped capture more than 3,300
illegal immigrants. "Our policy is not to touch them," Spencer says. "That's the
Border Patrol's job. We just want to show people what is happening down here."

Spencer, who says that he has worked as a consultant to the Pentagon, a
courtroom exhibit designer, a statistician and an anti-illegal-immigration
advocate, came to Arizona last summer because it was "the hot spot." Throughout
most of the 70's and 80's, almost two-thirds of all undocumented workers went to
California, and 30 percent headed to Los Angeles, the welcome mat. But during
the mid-90's, the government tightened the border in San Diego with steel fences
(the so-called Tortilla Curtain), illuminated by stadium-style lighting and
fortified with motion detectors. Apprehensions in San Diego dropped by more than
half in three years. By 2002, they were at a 29-year low. Now Arizona, with its
350 miles of Mexican frontier, has become the most popular crossing point.

A.B.P. is only the most organized and technologically ambitious of a cluster of
unofficial border patrols that have emerged in Arizona since last year,
including Civil Homeland Defense and Ranch Rescue. But the phenomenon probably
reveals less about a crisis in illegal immigration (which, judging from the
number of apprehensions, is down since 2000) than about an acute, frustrated
patriotism. These are people who took the president at his word when he called
for every American to stand vigilant and report suspicious activity after 9/11,
and who live at one of the few remaining trapdoors into America.

Spencer, having lived in Los Angeles for more than 60 years, has a visceral
reaction to illegal immigration. While talking to him, I realize that the
creation of these citizens' border patrols is really the story of two migration
trends: of Mexican immigrants crossing into Arizona and Californians moving into
the American Southwest. After years of influx, Americans have started abandoning
California, while Arizona has swelled. Most are simply departing a weak economy,
but some, like Spencer, see in California -- and its $38 billion dollar deficit
and diminished social services -- a glimpse of the country's future if it
doesn't take action to stem the tide.

A.B.P. and the other border-control groups have been called vigilantes and
militias, but Spencer doesn't carry a gun. He prefers cameras, which may be a
more effective weapon when it comes to his cause. At his suburban ranch house,
he has 100 tapes of border crossings stacked on shelves. The day before we went
out into the desert, I asked him to show me one, and he picked a grainy,
hand-held sequence shot from the side of the road, watching what looked like a
group of illegal immigrants ushered into a Border Patrol car. It was even less
thrilling than it sounds. This footage of the capture doesn't excite Spencer
nearly as much as everything that comes before: the search, the discovery and
the ability to send the evidence into the sky and back into people's homes
around the country. The A.B.P. Web site even allows you to set up an alert so
that anytime Spencer finds an S.B.I. on film, you know. "I want people, when
they get up in the morning, to turn on their television and get their border
report with their weather report," Spencer says. "Like, 'Ladies and gentlemen,
3,000 people made it across the border last night, and here are videos of them
crossing.' "

Back in the desert, playing with the binoculars, I turn out to be the first one
to spot S.B.I. They were hiding on a distant ridge, lying down in what looked
like white T-shirts. "The reporter is the first to make a sighting?" Spencer
asks. "Make sure to put that up on the Internet." I immediately regret saying
anything. I don't want to be responsible for either the group's capture or
A.B.P.'s success rate. But in that moment of scanning and searching, the obscure
pleasures of an A.B.P. mission -- the observation of minute phenomenon, a kind
of political bird-watching -- were obvious. If you're going to spend hours
looking for something, it feels good to find it. When it turns out I've spotted
only a cluster of yuccas ("It's reflective in the sun," Spencer tells me), I'm
hit with genuine relief.

Spencer is more annoyed. Six actual S.B.I. spotted on a remote ridge are too far
to film and at least 45 minutes away by all-terrain vehicle. Nobody thinks
Spencer can get there before the Border Patrol will. Such is the complexity of
documenting the undocumented. "I'd hate to get skunked today," Spencer says. But
he has been.

Illegal immigration is an incredibly chaotic process, one that Spencer, King and
a dozen or so volunteers can't possibly hope to record better than the 9,300
agents working for the Border Patrol in the Southwest. "If you've got 500 Border
Patrol agents in an area, and they have a daunting task, what are 5 people going
to do?" asks Sheriff Tony Estrada of Santa Cruz County, whose jurisdiction
includes the border town Nogales. "Nothing," he says. "The only thing they are
hunting is publicity."

Except that A.B.P. isn't hampered by bureaucracy, which allows them to
experiment with new technology far below the Border Patrol's radar. In early
May, Spencer successfully tested the group's first unmanned aerial vehicle -- a
three-and-a-half-foot-long, five-and-a-half-foot-wide plane made of balsa and
plastic rigged with a camera and transmitter. It's a hobbyist's dream made
politically useful. By early June, Spencer plans to have the plane flying
patterns synched to ground sensors. The economics of drone surveillance are
irrefutable, and a drone-security program has already picked up support from
Republicans, like Senators John McCain (of Arizona) and Pete Domenici (of New
Mexico) as well as Asa Hutchinson, the undersecretary for border and
transportation security. As of now, the Border Patrol still uses helicopters and
small planes, rather than unmanned aerial vehicles. When I ask him about the
privacy concerns of a drone plane cruising quietly at less than 500 feet over
private property, Spencer waves me off. "Look, if we wanted pictures of your
backyard, we could buy them," he says. "They already have satellites to do
that."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn Spencer, president and founder of American Border Patrol,
with his arsenal. (Ari Marcopolous)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: GOVERNMENT REPORT;
U.S. Report Faults the Roundup Of Illegal Immigrants After 9/11

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2


The Justice Department's roundup of hundreds of illegal immigrants in the months
after the Sept. 11 attacks was plagued with "significant problems" that forced
many people with no connection to terrorism to languish in jails in unduly harsh
conditions, an internal report released today found.

The highly critical report from the Justice Department's inspector general
concluded that F.B.I. officials, particularly in New York City, "made little
attempt to distinguish" between immigrants who had possible ties to terrorism
and those swept up by chance in the investigation.  Excerpt, Page A18.

Justice Department officials said they believed they had acted within the law in
pursuing terrorist suspects. "We make no apologies for finding every legal way
possible to protect the American public from further terrorist attacks," said
Barbara Comstock, a spokeswoman for the department.

But the inspector general's report found that some lawyers in the department
raised concerns about the legality of the tactics, only to be overridden by
senior officials.

The report validated the concerns raised by some members of Congress and civil
rights groups who charge that the Justice Department has cast too wide a net in
the campaign against terrorism. The findings will probably provide legal and
political ammunition to those seeking to curb the department's counterterrorism
tactics, officials said.

"It feels good to have someone saying that we shouldn't have had to go through
all that we did," said Shanaz Mohammed, 39, who was held in Brooklyn for eight
months on an immigration violation before being deported to Trinidad last year.

"I think America overreacted a great deal by singling out Arab-named men like
myself," he said in a phone interview. "We were all looked at as terrorists. We
were abused."

Justice Department officials said that despite their disagreements with some of
the report's conclusions, they have already adopted some of the 21
recommendations made by Glenn A. Fine, the department's inspector general,
including one to develop clearer criteria for the processsing of such
detentions.

Mr. Fine, appointed in 2000 by President Bill Clinton to what is regarded as a
largely nonpartisan position, said that while he recognized "the enormous
challenges and difficult circumstances" that the department faced after Sept.
11, "we found significant problems in the way the detainees were handled."

The inspector general initiated the report last year, in part because of public
reports of mistreatment of detainees. Most major agencies have inspectors
general, who serve as independent watchdogs with periodic reports on internal
matters.

A total of 762 illegal immigrants were jailed in the weeks and months after the
attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, as the authorities traced
tens of thousands of leads and sought to prevent another attack. Most of the 762
immigrants have now been deported, and none have been charged as terrorists.

The Justice Department has sought to maintain the secrecy of the arrests,
fighting news organizations' efforts to gain access to deportation proceedings
and for disclosure of more information about the detainees. Public information
about the arrests has been fragmented; the report offers the most detailed
portrait to date of who was held, the delays many faced in being charged or
gaining access to a lawyer, and the abuse that some faced in jail.

The report showed, for instance, that nearly three of every four jailed
immigrants were from New York City or New Jersey, many were Pakistanis, and most
were arrested within three months of Sept. 11.

The report also found that immigrants arrested in New York and housed at the
Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn faced "a pattern of physical and
verbal abuse" from some guards as well as "unduly harsh" detention policies.

A total of 84 inmates who were held in Brooklyn in terrorism investigations were
subjected to highly restrictive, 23-hour "lockdown," the report found. They were
limited to one phone call a week, and they were put in handcuffs, leg irons and
heavy chains any time they moved outside their cells, according to the report.

And because of a "communication blackout" in the weeks after Sept. 11, families
of some inmates in the Brooklyn facility were told their relatives were not
housed there.

The highly restrictive conditions and long delays in processing cases and giving
suspects access to lawyers appeared to differ markedly from policies before
Sept. 11, according to government officials and advocates for immigrants. Prior
to Sept. 11, the Immigration and Naturalization Service had 24 hours to decide
about charging an illegal immigrant, but six days after the attacks, the Justice
Department gave itself an indefinite time period because of the "extraordinary
circumstances."

Immigration officials sometimes did not notify prisoners of the charges against
them for more than a month, though the report said that the goal in the Sept. 11
investigation was to notify prisoners within three days. The average wait for
those arrested in New York City and housed in Brooklyn was 15 days, the report
said.

Early arrests after Sept. 11 included some "glaring errors" in how illegal
immigrants were charged, leading immigration officials to route all charges
through Washington for months in the fall of 2001, investigators found, which
caused delays. A "disconnect" in communication between officials in New York and
New Jersey added to those delays, the report said.

In addition, investigators found that the Federal Bureau of Investigation moved
very slowly to determine whether a suspect rounded up as part of the Sept. 11
investigation was linked to terrorism. It took the bureau an average of 80 days
to clear prisoners for removal or release because of understaffing and because
the process was "not given sufficient priority," the report said.

Mr. Fine traced the problem to an unannounced policy shift soon after Sept. 11
giving the F.B.I. the final say over when and whether illegal immigrants
detained in connection with the attacks could be released.

The policy shift -- moving authority away from immigration officials --
represented "uncharted territory," an unnamed department lawyer told
investigators, because it assumed that a person in detention could have a link
to terrorism unless and until the F.B.I. said otherwise.

Though this policy was apparently never written down, it was cleared "at the
highest levels" of the Justice Department, the report found.

The report found that some lawyers at the naturalization service "argued
vehemently" against giving the F.B.I. final authority to clear people in New
York City because the process was moving so slowly. Some Justice Department
lawyers raised concerns as well.

In New York City, anyone who was picked up as a result of a lead in the Sept. 11
investigation was held under this policy, "regardless of the strength of the
evidence or the origin of the lead," the report said.

Had it not been for the attacks, "most if not all" of the arrests would probably
have never been pursued, the report said. Some illegal immigrants were picked up
at random traffic stops, others because of anonymous tips that they were Muslims
with erratic schedules, officials said.

Department officials acknowledged to the inspector general's office that they
realized soon after the roundups began "that many in the group of Sept. 11
detainees were not connected to the attacks or terrorism," the report said.

The report did not name any detainees, but it did give numerous examples of
questionable treatment. It did not single out for criticism Attorney General
John Ashcroft or specific senior department advisers, prosecutors or F.B.I.
agents.

The report spotlighted cases of unfair treatment. A Muslim man, for instance,
was arrested when an acquaintance wrote to officials that the man had made
"anti-American statements." The statements "were very general and did not
involve threats of violence or suggest any direct connection to terrorism," the
report found, but the man had overstayed his visa and was held.

Though the bureau's New York office and the Central Intelligence Agency cleared
the man of any terrorist connections by mid-November 2001, F.B.I. headquarters
did not clear him for release from incarceration until more than three months
later because of an "administrative oversight," the report said.

Law enforcement officials today defended their handling of the arrests, noting
that the policy was in keeping with guidance from the department's Office of
Legal Counsel about detaining illegal immigrants.

Moreover, Deputy Attorney General Larry Thompson, whose aides handled some of
the key policy decisions, was quoted in the report as saying that it was "unfair
to criticize the conduct of members of my staff" during such an extraordinary
period.

Critics of the Justice Department, however, said that the findings bolstered
their concerns about the government's antiterrorism tactics.

The findings "confirm our long-held view that civil liberties and the rights of
immigrants were trampled in the aftermath of 9/11," said Anthony D. Romero,
executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.

William F. Schulz, executive director of Amnesty International USA, said that
the inspector general's office "should be applauded for releasing a report that
isn't just a whitewash of the government's actions."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some immigrants were held at this federal detention center in
Brooklyn. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. A18) Chart: "AT ISSUE:
DETAINEES, PROFILED"The Justice Department rounded up 762 illegal immigrants in
the months after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
Nationalities of those detainedPakistan: 254Egypt: 111Turkey: 54Jordan: 47Yemen:
42India: 29Saudi Arabia: 24Morocco: 22Tunisia: 16Syria: 15Lebanon: 14Israel:
12Iran: 9Guyana: 8Algeria: 7Bangladesh: 7Afghanistan: 6Britain: 6France: 5Other:
74 Arrests by locationNew York: 491New Jersey: 70Other or no data: 201 Days
held1 to 50: 12751 to 100: 220101 to 150: 174151 to 200: 77201 to 250: 47251 to
300: 27Data not available for 90 detainees. Graph tracks arrests by week from
Septmber 2001 through July 2002. Graph tracks those detainees who were released,
deported or left the country from September 2001 through August 2002.197 were
released on bond. Data not available for 68. (Source: Office of the Inspector
General, Justice Department)(pg. A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 5, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Prison Sentence For Immigrant Smuggler

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 109 words


A farm labor contractor has been sentenced to six and a half years in prison for
his part in a smuggling operation that left 14 Mexicans dead of heat-related
injuries in the western Arizona desert two years ago.

The contractor, Francisco Vazquez-Torres, was convicted of conspiracy resulting
in death and was fined $125,000. In May 2001, Border Patrol agents found a group
of immigrants on the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge. About 30 Mexicans
paid $1,400 each and were told that the trip would take two days. By the third
day, the group's guides became lost and stranded the immigrants in the desert,
where temperatures reached 115 degrees.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

TECHNOLOGY;
Special Visa's Use forTech Workers Is Challenged

BYLINE:  By KATIE HAFNER and DANIEL PREYSMAN

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 29


With the economy in a slump, a growing number of American technology workers say
their jobs are going not only to lower-cost foreign workers abroad, but also
increasingly to workers who enter the United States under a little-known visa
category known as L-1.

In the nearly three years since the technology bubble burst, the use of L-1
visas to bring in workers -- with a large percentage from India -- has become a
popular strategy among firms seeking to cut labor costs. The number of these
temporary visas granted rose nearly 40 percent to 57,700 in 2002 from 41,739 in
1999.

The visas are intended to allow companies to transfer employees from a foreign
branch or subsidiary to company offices in the United States. But they are now
routinely used by companies based in India and elsewhere to bring their workers
into the United States and then contract them out to American companies -- in
many instances to be replacements for American workers. The number of Americans
who have been replaced by foreign contract workers is unknown. American
companies that use contract workers have said that the decision to do so is
based on factors like skills, and not on cost alone.

Some immigration experts are questioning the legality of this use of the visa.
Officials at the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, or B.C.I.S., a
division of the Department of Homeland Security that oversees the granting of
L-1 and other work visas, say the bureau is conducting an assessment of the L-1
visa to determine whether there is misuse.

"If this is a company offering the services of their employee to go work for
another company, it sounds dubious," said Bill Strassberger, a spokesman for
B.C.I.S.

"To bring someone in ostensibly as an intracompany transfer and then put him to
work for somebody else and then to say that we're paying him still, that just
sounds like someone's trying to really stretch the envelope on that visa
category," Mr. Strassberger said.

The legal questions, however, remain murky. Steve Yale-Loehr, who teaches
immigration law at Cornell, said that strictly speaking, what these companies
are doing is legal, though perhaps not what Congress intended. However, Mr.
Yale-Loehr added, "If Congress is upset about this, then Congress will act on
it."

In response to the controversy, Rep. John L. Mica, a Republican from Florida,
introduced a bill this month to prevent companies from hiring foreigners with
L-1 visas.

"When you have people using this to bring in lower-cost labor to displace
Americans, it's something we need to address," Mr. Mica said in a telephone
interview.

During the boom years, the technology industries successfully lobbied Congress
to expand the number of foreign software engineers who could be permitted to
fill programming needs in the United States. In 2000, Congress increased the
annual cap on more restrictive temporary visas -- known as H-1B visas -- for
highly skilled foreign workers to 195,000 from 115,000. That quota will drop
automatically to 65,000 on Oct. 1 unless Congress approves an extension, a move
that is considered unlikely.

In the last two years, the trend in the use of H-1B visas has declined sharply.
Many experts say the use of L-1 visas will grow.

Unlike the H-1B visa, the L-1 does not require employers to pay workers
prevailing wages. In addition, there is no cap on the number of L-1 visas.

This has ignited an outcry among technology workers who have lost jobs and say
that foreign contract workers are paid substantially less than prevailing wages
in the industry.

Over the last three years, William O'Neill has seen his small computer
consulting firm in East Granby, Conn., dwindle from six contract workers to
none. The work itself has not disappeared, said Mr. O'Neill, but his clients,
most of them large insurance companies in Connecticut and western Massachusetts,
are turning to foreign companies, some with workers who are in the United States
on temporary visas. Satyam Computer Services, a consulting firm based in India,
for example, now has a contract with the Cigna Corporation that has around 100
Satyam employees working on computer applications management in Cigna offices.

And as others have claimed, Mr. O'Neill said that in many cases, existing
technology employees are asked to train their replacements. The L-1 visa
requires that the foreign workers possess specialized knowledge of the work to
be done.

Mr. O'Neill said that the people he knows who are currently training their
replacements will not talk about their situation for fear of losing what is left
of their jobs. "They're scared to death they're going to lose their jobs
instantly versus six or eight or nine months down the road," he said.

Once the replacement workers are trained, Mr. O'Neill said, the foreign workers
are often sent back to India to do programming and computer work there for the
American companies.

Wipro, InfoSys and Tata Consultancy Services, all of them based in India, are
other companies that are using L-1 visas to get workers into the United States.

Girish Surendran, a human resources manager who oversees immigration issues at
Tata, said his company "is committed in letter and spirit to all the
requirements and regulations of all visa categories." He added: "If workers are
replaced, it's not that T.C.S. comes in and employees get let go." Mr. Surendran
said he could not comment on a company's reason for laying workers off.

Wipro plans to lobby against Mr. Mica's bill. If it becomes law, said Sridhar
Ramasubbu, investor relations manager at Wipro, the company will simply turn
back to H1-B visas. "We will not be affected financially because our
compensation is the same whether somebody comes in under an H-1 or an L-1," Mr.
Ramasubbu said.

But trade groups representing American workers say the foreign workers are paid
considerably less. "I have friends that were told in the last three months that
they must take a $30,000 pay cut to keep their job," said John Bauman, president
of the Organization for the Rights of American Workers, a nonprofit group based
in Meriden, Conn.

Gary Burns, the legislative director for Mr. Mica, said there were about 325,000
L-1 visa holders in the United States. Those who stay in this country can remain
for up to five or seven years, depending on the category of L-1 they hold.

Some experts say that the use of L-1 visas for contract workers is not
widespread and that fears of losing jobs to foreign workers are exaggerated.

"Even if this brouhaha is about a real problem, I think when you look at the
number of workers involved, it is a totally insignificant drop in a massive
labor market," said Daryl Buffenstein, a immigration lawyer in Atlanta who has
corporate clients and is general counsel for the American Immigration Lawyers
Association.

Mr. Buffenstein said that those who oppose the L-1 visa do not understand how
important it is for American industry. "It will hurt employment in the United
States if we impede the ability of legitimate users to transfer managers and
specialists between different affiliates of international organizations," said
Mr. Buffenstein, a lawyer who advised legislators on the law governing L-1
visas.

Mr. Buffenstein said he was also worried that public overreaction would result
in measures like the Mica bill, which he contended would go too far in
restricting international companies from using L-1 visa holders to do on-site
client work.

Controversy over the visa, which has been in existence for 33 years, is not
entirely new. Three years ago, the General Accounting Office reported that the
the Immigration and Naturalization Services, the precursor to B.C.I.S., had
found a high incidence of fraudulent use of L-1 visas and had called abuse of
the visas "the new wave in alien smuggling."

But protest over the use of temporary foreign workers has become more vocal in a
rocky economy. One 57-year-old computer consultant in Avon, Conn., who has been
out of work for five months said, "This isn't just an I.T. issue," referring to
the information technology industry.

"It's a big issue with multiple professions, and has a serious effect on the
economy," said the consultant, who asked that his name not be used for fear of
jeopardizing his chances to find work. "A lot of this is about the economy and
the L-1 issue is just exacerbating the problem."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A flier from the Organization for the Rights of American
Workers, which wants to restrict visas that allow companies to transfer workers
to the United States. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. C1); John
Bauman, president of The Organization for the Rights of American Workers, which
opposes a visa loophole for foreign technology workers. (Richard L. Harbus for
The New York Times)(pg. C5) Chart: "Alternative Labor"The economic slowdown has
reduced the use of H-1B temporary visas, a favorite of the technology industry.
But demand for the lesser-known, less restrictive L-1 visa is growing. Graph
tracks visas issued, fiscal years ended September, from 1995 through first six
months of 2002 and 2003. (Source: State Department, Consular Affairs Bureau)(pg.
C1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Central Islip: Bias Lawsuit Dismissed

BYLINE:  By Bruce Lambert (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 111 words


Judge Joanna Seybert has dismissed a civil rights suit in Federal District Court
accusing seven groups of fostering the beating of two Mexican immigrant workers
in Shirley in 2000.

The case was brought on behalf of the beaten workers, Israel Perez and Magdaleno
Estrada. The groups included Sachem Quality of Life in Farmingville, which
opposes illegal immigration, and others. The judge said there was no evidence
that the groups were involved in the beating. But her decision, received Friday,
allowed the civil case to proceed against the attackers, Christopher Slavin and
Ryan Wagner, who were convicted and imprisoned for attempted murder.   Bruce
Lambert (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Battling on 2 Fronts on L.I. Over Immigrant Job Centers

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 741 words

DATELINE: FREEPORT, N.Y., Sept. 18


In Long Island's long-running battle over immigrant day laborers, each side is
claiming a victory.

Here in Freeport, in Nassau County, a new hiring site opened this morning with
the help of a $20,000 grant from the village's Community Development Agency. But
in the hamlet of East Farmingdale, in Suffolk County, a similar hiring site is
facing eviction after just a month in operation because the management company
that rented it space says it is violating the law.

The contrasting fates of the two hiring sites have once again thrown into sharp
relief the debate about immigrant day laborers, many of whom spend their
mornings on street corners or outside convenience stores, waiting for
contractors offering a day of work, say, landscaping lawns or clearing debris.

Some residents and politicians have embraced hiring sites -- lots, buildings or
trailers that are designated as places where workers and employers can meet each
day -- as safer, more convenient alternatives to the informal gathering spots.
But in other places, residents and officials have fought the sites on grounds
that it is illegal to play matchmaker between undocumented workers and those who
want to hire them.

"One had very clear government support, and the other didn't," Edward Hernandez,
a spokesman for the Long Island Immigrant Alliance, said in explaining why the
Freeport site is apparently poised to thrive even as the East Farmingdale site
is in jeopardy.

In Freeport, workers had previously gathered in a Long Island Rail Road commuter
parking lot -- a situation the village mayor, William F. Glacken, said posed "a
real and constant public safety issue."

So the village agreed to lease space at the end of a cul-de-sac north of Sunrise
Highway to Catholic Charities, which will run the hiring site out of a trailer,
with the help of the $20,000 grant. The Freeport site is modeled in part on a
hiring site set up in Glen Cove during the mayoralty of Thomas R. Suozzi, who is
now the Nassau County executive.

In East Farmingdale, however, the situation is more complicated. That site was
set up in August, more than a year after leaders of the adjacent village of
Farmingdale, which is in Nassau County, voted to close a hiring site there,
citing complaints from neighbors. The newer site was set up in a parking lot and
part of a building on Broad Hollow Road, by a coalition of groups, led by the
Farmingdale Citizens for Viable Solutions.

But within days of opening, the organizers received an eviction notice, said
Noel C. Bonilla, a lawyer for the citizens' group. And there were other signs
that the workers were not welcome, Mr. Bonilla said: the office's alarm system
was torn out of a wall, and banners announcing the presence of the hiring site
mysteriously disappeared.

"I think the bottom line is, people are very uncomfortable with any large
gathering of immigrants in the area," Mr. Bonilla said. "The landlord has
capitulated to a lot of the untruths and prejudices of people who were against
having immigrants in their area."

Andrew L. Liput, a lawyer for the Elite Living Management Corporation, which
leases the property and had subleased part of it to two home furnishings stores,
said he had thought the space was going to be used for a plant shop, a
landscaping business or some other activity that conforms with the company's own
agreement with the landlord. That lease stipulates that the property can be
subleased only to tenants in the home furnishings business, he said. "I don't
see how facilitating the employment of illegal immigrants to violate labor law
can be legal," he added.

Nonsense, say the site's organizers, who maintain that Mr. Liput knew full well
how the property would be used and that many day laborers are in fact
documented.

"We're clear on the fact that we're not doing anything that's breaking the law,"
said Nadia L. Marin-Molina, executive director of the Workplace Project, a group
that works with day laborers.

Now, the Town of Babylon, which includes the unincorporated village of East
Farmingdale, has offered to help the hiring site's organizers find a new
location, said Steven Bellone, the town supervisor.

But that was news to JoAnn Russo, director of the Farmingdale branch of the
Sachem Quality of Life Organization, which has opposed hiring halls. Mrs. Russo,
who applauded the decision to evict the new East Farmingdale hiring site, said:
"Our government officials know that we object to this, period."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Brooklyn: Two Are Guilty Of Pollution Violations

BYLINE:  By William Glaberson (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 129 words


A landlord and his son have been convicted of violating federal law by hiring
immigrant workers to use knives to cut dangerous asbestos insulation out of a
Brooklyn building without following required safety procedures. In a two-week
trial that ended with a guilty verdict on Friday, federal prosecutors argued
that after environmental inspectors closed the building on Prince Street in
downtown Brooklyn because of the hazards, the son, Isaac Rubenstein, tried to
hire a contractor to continue with the illegal asbestos removal. Mr.

Rubenstein, 27, of Brooklyn, and his father, Marvin Rubenstein, 56, of Muncie,
N.Y., were convicted of violating the Clean Air Act. Each could face a prison
term of five years and a fine of more than $250,000.   William Glaberson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Facing Strict New Controls On Cash Sent Home

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words


Each year, immigrant workers send $30 billion to relatives back home, a ritual
that has spawned a flourishing industry dedicated to transferring cash from the
United States to just about anywhere in the world.

But Sept. 11 cast that dollar lifeline in a new light -- as a potential pipeline
for terrorist financing -- and the once informal business now faces significant
changes.

The government has now imposed strict new controls on the companies that handle
nearly all immigrant payments, transforming a business that thrived on its lack
of paperwork and catered to people who could not, or would not, do business with
banks.

Some of the new federal rules were put in place this summer and others are
expected to be issued in the next few months. They have already caused money
transmitters to automate their businesses, report even small cash transfers to
federal law enforcement authorities and demand proof of their customers'
identities.

Anyone who sends money overseas now must be checked against government lists of
suspected money launderers and terrorists, a task that also requires money
transmitters -- many of them storefront operations -- to undergo training to
spot suspicious movements of money.

"As I tell the companies, the party's over," said Michael R. McDonald, a retired
Internal Revenue Service special agent who advises banks and money transmitters
on how to comply with the array of new regulations.

Filipino workers who send money home -- from all over the world, they send $6
billion a year -- have already seen a change. When they go for the first time to
one of the 60 Lucky Money outlets across the country, they must show a
government- or employer-issued ID.

"We never asked for ID before," said Robert Reyes, the vice president of the
California-based company, which specializes in home delivery of cash in the
Philippines. "But Sept. 11 made us all more cognizant."

So far, no one has balked at showing an ID, and Mr. Reyes doubts that most of
his customers would.

"These small customers, all they do is work, work, work in order to generate
some revenue for relatives back home," he said.

Some immigrants, though, do worry that closer government scrutiny of money
transfer companies could mean that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
might track them down.

"I have a passport that I can show, but what if they look at more than my name?"
said a Tibetan woman named Chunta, a Brooklyn resident who overstayed her
tourist visa long ago and regularly sends cash earned as a store clerk to
relatives in India.

Treasury Department officials, who administer the new federal regulations, have
said people making ordinary transfers should not be worried.

State Banking Department officials, however, began sharing money transfer
information in March with the local office of the F.B.I. All names of customers
are checked against lists of suspected criminals.

The amount of data involved is huge: in the first six months of this year, money
transfer companies handled an average of 160,000 transactions a day just in New
York State.

Elizabeth McCaul, the state's superintendent of banks, has also pressed
transmitters to get personal data from each customer, although the federal
regulations requiring that have yet to be issued.

She said the transmitters should get a birth date verified by official
documents, and as much information as possible about the foreign recipients.
Transmitters also have to make sure they do not handle the business of anyone
listed as a terrorist by the federal Office of Foreign Assets Control.

All of this is new territory for many companies, which generally never asked
immigrants for identification unless they brought in a large amount of cash to
be sent overseas.

"We've had people call here asking for help and they didn't know what O.F.A.C.
is," said Jorge A. Guerrero, president of the 27-member National Money
Transmitters Association.

There are also many reservations about the effectiveness of new controls for
spotting terrorist money.

The first of the new regulations subjected money transmitters, currency
exchanges and check-cashing stores to the same antilaundering rules that banks
have followed for 16 years. That meant they must now report suspicious cash
transactions above a threshold value: $5,000 for banks and, now, $3,000 for
money services businesses like transmitters.

Setting thresholds was intended to catch drug traffickers or criminal groups
that have a lot of money to disguise or move quickly. Terrorist groups,
investigators say, are more likely to move small amounts of money
intermittently.

To increase the chances of discovering a criminal who sends money through
different companies, 20 small and medium-size remittance companies also
voluntarily pool their customer records.

"We wanted to prove that these are not conduits for money laundering," Mr.
Guerrero said. "These are people who have a real stake, who can show that it's a
real industry and provides a real service."

It is a constant struggle. It has become even more fierce in the past year as
American banks have moved aggressively to capture the lucrative remittance
market which, according to Inter-American Development Bank studies, generates an
estimated $2.4 billion in fees a year.

Many money transmitters say their banks have even closed their accounts, saying
the independent cash transfer business is too expensive to service.

Without a regular bank account, a transmitter cannot do business.

Those specializing in cash transfers to south Asia and the Middle East have been
especially hard hit.

"Some banks are discriminating," said Kamal Ahmed, president of Placid Express
in Astoria, Queens, which sends remittances to Pakistan and Bangladesh. "I have
a license, and I follow all the rules from the federal government and the State
Banking Department. The banks are dealing with others, but they have closed our
accounts."

The vulnerability of the international networks that move cash was demonstrated
by the Sept. 11 hijackers.

Over three days just before the attacks, two of the terrorists transferred about
$15,000 to one recipient in the United Arab Emirates, dividing the cash into
four transactions and using different Western Union outlets.

The men's names were not on a watch list at the time. A Western Union official
refused to comment on whether the recipient of the closely spaced wire transfers
should have set off an alarm.

"We don't talk about specific customers," said David T. Wittman, the company's
compliance officer. "But the way the reporting regime is set up, there are red
flags."

In the absence of any law requiring companies to pool information, officials
conceded, it may still be difficult to follow the terrorist money trail.

"As a practical matter, I could still go to three different companies and wire
money to, say, the United Arab Emirates," said a Treasury official, speaking on
condition of anonymity. "But there still has to be some overarching regulatory
mechanism."

The biggest concern for the millions of immigrants sending cash overseas will be
the Patriot Act requirement that businesses including banks and money
transmitters verify their customers' identities and backgrounds.

Many of the immigrants who are the core market for money transfers do not have
drivers' licenses or other government-issued ID's. Or, even if they are here
legally, they reflexively fear exposing themselves to the authorities.

Businesses that cater to them have adjusted to those circumstances, but their
methods may no longer pass muster.

Abacus Federal Savings Bank, a Manhattan-based bank that serves Chinese
immigrants, handles about 10,000 cash transfers to China each month, averaging
$2,000 to $3,000 each.

One of every five of those customers has no proof of identity, said Thomas Sung,
the chairman of the bank.

Rather than have them send money through someone else's bank account, a method
that eliminates any hope of tracing the source or true recipient, Mr. Sung said,
he encourages immigrants to open a bank account.

"Just because they don't have ID's doesn't mean they are not law-abiding
persons," Mr. Sung said. "So this is a risk we're willing to take for the time
being because we are a community bank. If the regulations say I can't do it,
then it's going to cost me business and cause a tremendous inconvenience for
those who don't have or don't want to show any ID."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Calixto Sosa sending money to his wife in the Dominican
Republic. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Leader Presses U.S. To Resolve Migrants' Issues

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Nov. 26


At the start of meetings between high-level officials from Mexico and the United
States, President Vicente Fox issued a public challenge to the Bush
administration today, saying it was crucial that negotiations resume on broad
immigration reforms that were derailed by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

Among the proposals are measures that would give legal status to 3.5 million
Mexicans in the United States and expand guest-worker programs for Mexicans.

"Now is the moment to restart our negotiations with renewed energy to achieve an
integral agreement," President Fox said.

American officials responded with reservations and pleas for patience.

"These things will take time," said Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who led
the American delegation. "They are not simple issues; they are difficult issues.
If we could both snap our fingers and make all the problems go away, we would do
so this moment."

President Bush, addressing the gathering in a videotaped message, made no
specific commitment, but said his government would continue to work with Mexican
officials "on creative new policies so that immigration is legal, orderly and
safe."

It has been almost two years since President Fox first pressed the United States
to adopt an ambitious package of reforms aimed at opening the border to a freer
flow of workers.

President Bush, declaring Mexico one of the United States' most important
partners and praising Mexican immigrants for their contributions to both
countries' economies, committed to high-level negotiations on Mr. Fox's
proposals, raising expectations on both sides for progress on an issue that had
roiled relations for decades.

But support in the United States diminished dramatically after the attacks on
the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, and the Bush administration set aside
the immigration talks to focus on national security and fighting terrorism.

As Mexico waited months for the United States to restart the talks, relations
between President Fox and President Bush began to show signs of strain, and the
political costs at home for President Fox began to mount. In his comments today,
he acknowledged the increased security concerns in the United States.

Still, he urged American officials to establish "a framework that clearly
distinguishes between those people who arrive in the United States to work and
enrich the economy with their labor from those who could represent a threat to
the security of the United States and our region."

Secretary Powell pointed out that a new "political situation" in the United
States, generated by Congressional elections and the establishment of the
Department of Homeland Security, was likely to delay the administration's work
on immigration issues further.

But Secretary Powell sought to reassure Mexico that it had not fallen off the
United States' agenda. He said State Department officials would begin work on
identifying "items that we can pursue over the next six months to a year."

"There should be no doubt in anyone's mind that this is a priority for President
Bush, just as it is a priority for President Fox," he said. "We remain committed
to doing everything we can to move forward. But we have to be realistic about
the changes that have occurred over the last 14 months."

Doubts in Mexico, however, run deep. One official in the Foreign Ministry said
it was clear that the United States "still has cold political feet on the
immigration issue."

The talks today came as the United States begins negotiating with Mexico over
plans for a military strike against Iraq.

Mexico, which holds a seat on the United Nations Security Council, had joined
with France in expressing reservations about the use of immediate and unilateral
force to disarm Iraq. After seven weeks of negotiations, Mexico joined with
other Council members to vote in favor of a United States resolution.

Mexico has traditionally opposed the use of military force by the United States.
A senior aide to Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge Castaneda, said he expected
the next round of negotiations to be even more politically difficult for
President Fox than the last.

At a news conference at the end of the meeting, Secretary Powell said the United
States and Mexico had "reaffirmed our joint determination to see Saddam Hussein
disarm, now, fully and finally."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 27, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hong Kong Moves to Raise Birth Rate and Draw Richer Immigrants

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 565 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 26


Local leaders announced today that they would begin accepting immigrants based
partly on their wealth and talents and would adjust tax policies to encourage
families to have more babies.

"We want to upgrade the quality of the population," said Donald Tsang, the
administration's chief secretary.

The immigration and tax policies, similar to Singapore's, are part of a flurry
of changes here as Tung Chee-hwa, the territory's chief executive, has pursued
closer integration with mainland China in response to economic weakness here.

Mr. Tung's administration introduced tough internal security legislation to Hong
Kong's Legislative Council today, as planned, and announced on Tuesday that it
would cut welfare benefits and civil servants' pay in response to the declining
cost of living.

Mr. Tsang, the second-highest official after Mr. Tung, said at a news conference
that the government would also impose a tax of about $50 a month on employers of
foreign domestic helpers. The minimum wage for such helpers would be reduced by
an equal amount, to $420 a month, although some already earn considerably more
than that.

Hong Kong's population of 7 million includes nearly 240,000 foreign maids,
mainly from the Philippines, and they are encountering resentment because of
high unemployment among native-born residents.

The proceeds from the tax are to be used for further training of the
native-born. The financial penalty for employing foreigners may prompt some
employers to hire Hong Kong citizens who can no longer find work because many
factories have moved to the mainland.

Immigration policies have long been controversial here, especially the rate at
which this former British colony, now a fairly autonomous Chinese territory,
allows mainland residents to settle here permanently -- 150 a day, almost all
spouses or children of current Hong Kong residents.

Despite this emphasis on the reunification of families, mainland residents can
wait up to a decade for permission to move here. There has been heavy
intermarriage across the border since Britain handed over Hong Kong to China in
1997.

Businesses have been frustrated that this makes it hard for them to transfer
experienced professionals here if they are mainland citizens . Under the new
rules that Mr. Tsang announced tonight, a new category will be created for
mainland managers and professionals to move here.

Immigrants will also be allowed to settle here if they invest at least $833,000.
But mainland citizens will be excluded from the program because China's currency
is not fully convertible and because Beijing has been wary of letting Hong Kong
turn into a tax haven for the wealthy.

Singapore, Australia, Canada, Britain and other countries also have special
immigration rules for people who invest large sums, and there have been periodic
discussions in Washington over whether the United States should adopt that
approach.

Mr. Tsang recommended that the government offer the same tax deductions for all
children and end the current policy of offering smaller deductions for third and
subsequent children. While Hong Kong remains one of the most crowded cities on
earth, it has become concerned with a steep decline in its birth rate. On
average, 10 women here give birth to a total of just 9 babies in their
lifetimes, compared with the 21 babies that would typically be needed for a
self-sustaining population.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2003 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

HOME FRONT;
Fees From Visas Now Train Americans

BYLINE:   By Anthony DePalma

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words


FEW subjects can start an argument faster than illegal immigration and the way
some people see foreigners taking jobs from Americans.

But foreign workers who legally take American jobs may just be one of them.

Each year, for the last few years, some 195,000 foreigners have been given
special visas to come to the United States to fill specialized jobs for which
employers said they could not find enough skilled Americans, despite the
national unemployment rate of 6 percent.

A special class of visa, called H1-B, is used to bring in those skilled foreign
workers. And now fees collected on the visa are used to train Americans at
institutions like the Borough of Manhattan Community College to fill the same
jobs.

The visas give foreigners the right to work in the United States for a total of
six years, but not to settle here permanently. Usually the jobs are in high
technology fields involving computers and computer software.

Not surprisingly, unions and some politicians hated the program. They managed to
tack on restrictions to make it more difficult for companies to import foreign
workers. But the number of visas granted has grown steadily nonetheless.

To address the concerns of critics, the government began to charge a $1,000 fee
a few years ago for every application for an H1-B visa, paid by the employer who
is hiring the foreign worker.

The money goes into a national pool, and more than half of the total is
distributed to educational institutions and work force programs around the
country that train American workers to fill the positions for which foreigners
are recruited.

Since the program began in 1998, the government has given out $228.5 million in
training grants, according to the Employment and Training Administration, part
of the United States Department of Labor. New York State has received eight
grants, the most recent for $2.87 million that went to Borough of Manhattan
Community College, in partnership with Thirteen/WNET New York television.

"Part of our responsibility as a community college is to service the whole
community, and that means not just the students but the for-profits and
not-for-profits in Manhattan," said Dr. Antonio Perez, the college's president.
"When you break it down, our mission is no different in that regard from any
small community college around the country, except that our community is the
financial capital of the world."

The college, which has 24,000 full-time and part-time students in several
downtown buildings and is part of the City University of New York, will provide
specialized training for 500 people at little or no charge and then help those
people find jobs or get promotions.

Unemployed or underemployed residents of New York City are eligible, as is
anyone displaced as a result of the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, regardless
of where they live. To apply, interested workers may call the college at (212)
220-8350.

Acte Maldonado, dean of the Center for Continuing Education and Workforce
Development, said the new courses will begin in September at the college's
training center at 45 John Street in the financial district.

Five different programs will be offered over two years. They include courses in
computer network security, the Cisco Certified Network Associate program, the
Cisco Certified Network Professional program, Oracle database design and
engineering, and A+, a personal computer technician certification program.

In the current economic climate, employers who need workers with new skills
simply go out and get them -- from foreign countries if need be -- rather than
take the time to retrain existing workers, said Rodney Alexander, director of
the Institute for Business Trends Analysis at the college.

"What we're seeing is the 'just-in-time' delivery system applied to human
resources," he said, referring to the practice, common in manufacturing, of
having parts delivered as needed, rather than keeping them on site.

Figuring out what skills are most in demand is a complicated process, because
the needs of the high technology companies change so rapidly, Dr. Maldonado
said. The application for the H1-B visa grant that was originally filed in May
2001 was rejected. It was resubmitted the following year with multimedia
training replaced by network security classes.

The second time around the application was approved.

"We had to modify it to best suit the labor market," Dr. Maldonado said,
"because in the final analysis, we have to find jobs for these people."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2003



CORRECTION: The Home Front column last Sunday about job training programs
financed through work visa fees referred imprecisely to the timing of a training
grant to the Borough of Manhattan Community College and Thirteen/WNET New York
television. It was one of the two latest grants, given simultaneously in New
York State, not the "most recent" grant. The other was given to the New York
Workforce Investment Board and the New York City Department of Employment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Acte Maldonado, a dean at Borough of Manhattan Community
College, said the needs of technology companies change rapidly. (Marilynn K.
Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman Who Sought U.S. Asylum Is Arrested

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM GLABERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 500 words


A West African woman whose plea for political asylum drew national attention
after she said she feared genital mutilation in Ghana was arrested in Queens
yesterday on charges that she lied under oath and entered the United States with
a fraudulent passport in 1997.

The charges reopened a tangled battle that drew interest from political figures,
celebrities and women's groups two years ago. Some of them angered immigration
officials by asserting that the government had opposed her asylum application
because of hostility to asylum claims by women who said they were at risk of
genital mutilation in their home countries.

But in their charges yesterday, federal prosecutors said the account of the
woman, Regina Norman Danson, 33, was an invention, including her claim that she
was in line to become "queen mother" of her tribe in central Ghana. Because she
would fail the tribe's requirement of virginity, she told officials in 1997, she
would be mutilated or killed if she were sent home.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service opposed her request, but a federal
appeals court granted her asylum in 1999.

James B. Comey, the United States attorney in Manhattan, said yesterday that the
indictment "demonstrates that the government will not tolerate cynical abuse of
the asylum system."

But a lawyer for Ms. Danson, Kenneth J. Montgomery, said she was indeed a member
of a royal family in her tribe and reiterated that she would have faced genital
mutilation or death if she were sent home.

"Of course she told the truth," Mr. Montgomery told reporters after Ms. Danson
pleaded not guilty. He asserted that the charges were motivated by officials
angered that the appeals court had ruled against them on her asylum claim.

The nine-count indictment yesterday included charges of perjury, which could
bring a prison term of five years, and passport fraud, which could result in
imprisonment of 10 years. Ms. Danson used the name of another immigrant from
Ghana, Adelaide Abankwah, when she entered this country. She was released
yesterday on $200,000 bail.

The judge in the case, Charles P. Sifton, was abrupt with prosecutors, telling
them they should be prepared to clarify "whether or not this is a vindictive
prosecution."

He also asked an assistant United States attorney, Ronnie Abrams, about the
statute of limitations that can bar prosecution of a case. Many of Ms. Danson's
statements that the prosecutors say included lies were made five years ago
yesterday and those charges have a five-year statute of limitations. The charges
were filed Friday but were not made public until yesterday.

"There are many questions about this indictment," Judge Sifton said to the
prosecutors, "which I think, at the appropriate time, you'll be asked to
explain."

The case was handled by assistants of Mr. Comey. Ms. Danson was charged
yesterday in federal court in Brooklyn because she was arrested in Queens, which
is part of the court's district, and her trial is to be held in the Brooklyn
court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 18, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Judge May Require Release of Detainee

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Sept. 17


A federal judge ruled today that a Muslim clergyman accused of funneling money
to terrorists should be freed in 10 days or have a new hearing open to the news
media and the public with a different immigration judge.

The clergyman, Rabih Haddad, a Lebanese citizen living in Ann Arbor, Mich., has
been jailed since Dec. 14 at an immigration prison for overstaying his visa.

David Cole, Mr. Haddad's lawyer, said that although the decision by Judge Nancy
G. Edmunds of Federal District Court in Detroit affected only one case, it might
set a precedent for similar proceedings, begun nationwide after the Sept. 11
attacks.

Mr. Cole argued that his client should have a new immigration judge because the
first one had been tainted by the secrecy of the case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE AIRPORT ATTACK;
I.N.S. Ignored Possible Link Of Airport Killer to Terrorists

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words


An Egyptian immigrant who went on a July 4 shooting spree at Los Angeles
International Airport told immigration officials nearly a decade ago that the
Egyptian authorities had accused him of being affiliated with a known terrorist
organization, officials disclosed yesterday.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service failed to investigate evidence that
appeared to link the immigrant, Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, to an Egyptian extremist
group even as the agency was considering his application for political asylum in
the mid-1990's, the officials said. A rigorous examination of the asylum
application could have ended with Mr. Hadayet being deported, they said.

The immigration service's handling of Mr. Hadayet's case prompted Attorney
General John Ashcroft to order the agency last week to conduct an investigation
into possible links between asylum seekers and terrorist groups, sayofficials
who are involved.

Mr. Ashcroft directed the agency to review all existing asylum cases to
determine whether possible terrorist links had gone unexamined, as in the case
of Mr. Hadayet. And he demanded that the agency find out whether any
disciplinary action was taken against those involved in handling his case -- and
if not, why not, officials said. Mr. Ashcroft was "furious" about this, one
official said.

Mr. Hadayet, the owner of a limousine service in Orange County, Calif., fatally
shot two people and injured several more on July 4 at the ticketing area for
Israel's El Al airline before a security guard killed him. Investigators say Mr.
Hadayet harbored strong anti-Israeli sentiments.

The episode, coming after the F.B.I. had warned about the prospect of terrorist
violence on Independence Day, renewed public fears and diplomatic tensions with
Israel, which pushed the United States to investigate the shootings as a
terrorist assault. F.B.I. investigators have pursued the theory that Mr. Hadayet
was not acting in concert with any outside terrorist groups. The bureau's
investigation is continuing.

Officials of the immigration service said they had no immediate comment on the
issue. The agency is still reeling from a year of intense criticism over the
ability of the Sept. 11 hijackers to maneuver within the nation. At least partly
in response to the problems, some functions of the agency would be moved to the
proposed Homeland Security Department if it is approved by Congress.

The immigration service turned over documents on the case yesterday to the House
Judiciary Committee after weeks of discussions over what could be made
available, with the I.N.S. and the Justice Department initially citing concerns
about the privacy of Mr. Hadayet.

Officials with the House Judiciary Committee declined to comment on the
documents, saying staff members had not yet had time to review them.

Mr. Hadayet first applied for political asylum in 1992, saying he had been
persecuted for his strong religious beliefs in his native Egypt.

Officials who have seen his immigration file say Mr. Hadayet acknowledged to the
I.N.S. the next year as part of the application process that he had been accused
by the Egyptians of being a member of al-Gamaa al-Islamiya, or the Islamic
Group. The group, classified by the State Department as a terrorist
organization, has claimed responsibility for acts of violence in Egypt and has
demanded freedom for participants in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.

Mr. Hadayet admitted to the I.N.S. that he had signed a statement for the
Egyptian police admitting his involvement with al-Gamaa al-Islamiya before
coming to the United States, officials said. But he told the I.N.S. that he had
no affiliation and that he signed the "false confession" only under duress,
according to one administration official. The official said that Mr. Hadayet
maintained that his only true involvement was with a nonviolent mosque.

Despite the conflicting accounts, the immigration service "made no attempt" to
determine whether Mr. Hadayet had any actual terrorist links, even as his asylum
application remained pending for two and a half years, the official said.

Mr. Hadayet was denied asylum in late 1995, but his immigration file was filled
with other "irregularities" even after that, officials said.

The immigration service prepared a charging document against Mr. Hadayet in
October 1995 accusing him of overstaying his original visa, but the case was
closed after he failed to show up for a hearing and the immigration service
apparently could not find him.

Though he had overstayed his visa, Mr. Hadayet was allowed to obtain a temporary
work authorization in 1996, and he and his family earned permanent residency
status the next year, after his wife won a federal visa lottery. Administration
officials said it was not clear whether immigration officials reviewing his
residency status knew of the earlier allegations about the terror group.

Administration officials also said they were puzzled by the I.N.S.'s handling of
the case and were seeking to find out why Mr. Hadayet had been allowed to stay
in the country. In hindsight, they said, Mr. Hadayet's suspected links to the
Islamic Group, his overstaying of his visa or his failure to show up for an
immigration hearing should have been enough to initiate proceedings that would
probably have led to his deportation.

The immigration service has faced intense scrutiny since the Sept. 11 attacks
over its lax scrutiny of student and tourist visas, culminating in the
disclosure in March that the agency sent student visa approval notices for two
hijackers, Mohamed Atta and Marwan al-Shehhi, to a Florida flight school six
months after their suicide flights. But Mr. Ashcroft now has ordered officials
to expand that scrutiny to include possible links between terrorist groups and
asylum seekers. He directed the I.N.S. to conduct a "prompt" review into
"existing" asylum cases, officials said. They said they could not provide
details about the scope and meaning of that directive.

Experts in immigration law said that for an agency already overloaded by
bureaucratic problems, Mr. Ashcroft's request could prove difficult if not
impossible to carry out. The immigration service receives tens of thousands of
asylum applications each year, including more than 64,000 last fiscal year.
Beyond that, applicants routinely claim that they were involved in activities
that their governments considered extreme or subversive.

"Where do you draw the line," said Daniel M. Kowalski, an asylum law expert who
edits an immigration bulletin in Texas, "between someone who's considered a
'freedom fighter' and someone who slides into the area of terrorism or
persecutor? All of these labels are 100 percent politically driven."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hesham Mohamed Hadayet, who killed two people on July 4.
(Associated Press)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE INQUIRY;
2 Agencies Say Silence Prevented Pair's Tracking

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON and DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1067 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1


The Transportation Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
told Congress today that they might have been able to track down two of the
Sept. 11 hijackers before the terrorist attacks if their agencies had received
intelligence information that was being shared elsewhere in the government.

The testimony from senior transportation and immigration officials offered new
evidence to a special joint Congressional panel investigating the attacks about
how intelligence-sharing blunders may have allowed operatives of Al Qaeda to go
undetected in the United States in the months before Sept. 11.

The two hijackers, Khalid al-Midhar and Nawaq Alhazmi, had been placed on a
State Department watch list for terrorist suspects in late August on the
recommendation of the Central Intelligence Agency.

But the agency, which had tracked the two men for more than a year before they
were added to the watch list, did not share the information with other federal
agencies that have important, if less direct, roles in combating terrorism.

"Had we had information that those two individuals presented a threat to
aviation or posed a great danger, we would have put them on the list and they
should have been picked up in the reservation process," said Claudio Manno, a
senior intelligence official at the newly created Transportation Security
Administration, which is part of the Transportation Department.

In his testimony to the House-Senate committee, Mr. Manno suggested that the
names of the two hijackers would have been detected on the reservation lists for
American Airlines Flight 77, the hijacked plane that was flown into the
Pentagon, or for other flights in the weeks before Sept. 11. Mr. Midhar and Mr.
Alhazmi used their own names in making reservations on the doomed American
Airlines jet.

The immigration official, Joseph Greene, assistant commissioner for
investigations of the I.N.S., testified that his agency might have been able to
prevent the two men from entering the United States if it had been alerted.

"We think there is a likelihood that that could have happened," he said. "The
capacity is there for us to make a contribution, had we been asked."

The House-Senate panel, which has conducted a series of aggressive public
hearings, had previously focused on intelligence failures within the F.B.I. and
the C.I.A., and in information-sharing between those two agencies. Today, the
panel heard about failures by the two agencies to share terrorism intelligence
elsewhere in the government.

The joint committee's staff director, Eleanor Hill, said in testimony to the
panel today that the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and other counterterrorism agencies had
often failed to turn over terrorism intelligence to the Federal Aviation
Administration, the State Department and other agencies "that need it the most
in order to counter the threats."

"The reasons for this reluctance to share range from a legitimate concern about
the protection of intelligence sources and methods to a lack of understanding of
the functions of other agencies," she said.

She disclosed that the panel's investigators had determined that an F.B.I.
report in July 2001 warning that Al Qaeda might be training terrorist pilots in
the United States was not turned over to the F.A.A. until several months after
the Sept. 11 attacks -- even though the F.A.A. is responsible for aviation
security and oversees the nation's flight schools.

The report, which was prepared by an F.B.I. agent in Phoenix last summer and
passed on to the bureau's headquarters in Washington before Sept. 11, urged that
the agency begin scrutinizing Arab men attending flight schools to determine
whether terrorists linked to Al Qaeda were trying to gain aviation training.

"The F.A.A. was not provided with a copy of the F.B.I.'s Phoenix memorandum
prior to Sept. 11, 2001, and still did not have a copy two weeks after the
matter had become public" earlier this year, Ms. Hill said.

She also said that it was only after the attacks that the C.I.A. provided the
State Department with the names of 58 terrorist suspects for addition to the
department's terrorist watch list, which is used at American embassies to try to
prevent terrorists from receiving visas to enter the United States.

She said the names were among those of about 150 suspected terrorists that the
C.I.A. identified to the State Department in the aftermath of the Sept. 11
attacks.

"This lapse in sharing intelligence, and the failure to add the names of at
least two of the hijackers to the State watch list prior to Sept. 11, were
attributed to a lack both of resources and of awareness of watch listing," Ms.
Hill said, adding that State Department officials had complained of "continuing
difficulty" in obtaining similar data from the F.B.I.

The Central Intelligence Agency had no formal response to the panel's
disclosures today. But an American intelligence official, speaking on condition
of anonymity, said that the 58 names added to the terrorism watch list
"represented only a tiny fraction of one percent of the total" number of
terrorism suspects identified to the State Department each year by the agency.

The F.B.I.'s counterterrorism program was under criticism elsewhere in the
capital today, as the Justice Department's inspector general released a report
finding that even after the attacks, the bureau failed to follow through on its
promise to prepare a comprehensive written assessment of terrorist threats
facing the United States.

"While the F.B.I. has taken significant steps to revamp its counterterrorism
program, we believe it needs to develop a comprehensive written assessment of
the terrorist threat," said the inspector general, Glenn Fine. "Such an
assessment would aid the F.B.I. as it changes its priorities and seeks to
prevent, deter and disrupt terrorist acts."

Senator Charles E. Grassley, an Iowa Republican who is a frequent critic of the
F.B.I., said the inspector general's findings demonstrated the need for Congress
to step up its oversight of the bureau's Washington leadership.

The report, Senator Grassley said, was more proof that the headquarters "handled
the issues of foreign terrorism by the seat of their pants, always looking
backwards instead of seriously thinking about attacks on our soil."

The bureau said today that it accepted the inspector general's findings and
"concurs with the recommendations as constructive guidance."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eleanor Hill, staff director of the Joint Intelligence
Committee, testifying before the committee. Behind her, from right, were Francis
Taylor, a counterterrorism official, and James Gilmore III, a panel official.
(Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 15, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Threat of Deportation Is Eased For Husband of a 9/11 Victim

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 506 words


An illegal immigrant who faced deportation after he lost his wife in the World
Trade Center attack will most likely be allowed to stay in this country with his
two sons, Senator Charles E. Schumer said yesterday.

The immigrant, Vasiliy V. Ryjov, 38, had lived for about 10 years in northern
Westchester County with his family. But he was to be deported back to his native
Georgia, a former Soviet republic, after the Immigration and Naturalization
Service rejected his application for permanent residency last month on the
ground that he had falsely claimed to be married to another woman in 1993. He
appealed, saying that the claim was made without his knowledge.

Mr. Ryjov and his lawyer then told his story to the news media and contacted
Senator Schumer, who interceded on Mr. Ryjov's behalf with immigration
officials.

At a news conference yesterday in his Manhattan office, standing beside Mr.
Ryjov and his sons, Mr. Schumer said immigration officials had indicated to him
that Mr. Ryjov would most likely be approved for a green card within a few
weeks.

"At last, Mr. Ryjov and his two sons can have some peace to what has been an
ongoing personal tragedy," Mr. Schumer said. "To suffer the loss of a loved one
is the most difficult ordeal to cope with, and when you add to that the horror
of possibly getting upended from your home and whisked away overseas, the last
year has been doubly devastating for this young family."

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the immigration service in New York, declined to
comment specifically on Mr. Ryjov. "The individual's case is under review," he
said. "When a determination is made, it will be shared with the individual and
the attorney of record."

Mr. Ryjov's lawyer, Michael J. Wildes, said that immigration officials had
requested more information last week and were "looking for an easy way to
approve the case."

"Simply put, it's not over until it's over," Mr. Wildes said. "But things are
certainly looking good."

Mr. Ryjov's wife, Tatiana Ryjova, immigrated here in 1989 with their son Alex,
and Mr. Ryjov followed two years later on a tourist visa. They later had another
son, Daniel. The boys are 15 and 9.

Mr. Ryjov said he tried unsuccessfully to apply for political asylum, and in
1993 he paid $4,000 to an immigration lawyer in Manhattan who secured a work
permit for him before disappearing. Mr. Ryjov said he continued working as a
construction laborer after his permit expired.

Mrs. Ryjova, a computer specialist, applied for permanent residency in 1996, and
also applied to a visa lottery program run by the immigration service. Just four
months before the trade center attack, her name was among those picked for green
cards in the lottery. Mrs. Ryjova, 36, worked for Regus on the 93rd floor of the
south tower, her husband said.

Yesterday, Mr. Ryjov, who lives in Lewisboro, tearfully thanked the senator and
his lawyer for their efforts to help him.

"Everyone needs closure," he said. "It's about life and moving forward. When
something's not solved, you can't move forward."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Nassau, Campaign Uses 9/11 In TV Ad

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 623 words


The father of a World Trade Center victim who has made tighter immigration
controls a personal quest will appear in a televised political advertisement
this week, endorsing a Nassau County Republican candidate for Congress.

Political analysts and officials of both parties said they believed this was the
first time a family member of a Sept. 11 victim has been used so directly in a
partisan campaign.

The ad is an endorsement for Marilyn O'Grady, a Garden City ophthalmologist who
is running against the three-term incumbent, Representative Carolyn McCarthy of
the Fourth District.

In the ad, Peter Gadiel, whose son James died in the attack on the trade center,
criticizes Mrs. McCarthy's record on immigration issues, calling her "part of
the problem" for opposing limits on immigration and suggesting that her stance
has undercut national security.

"Marilyn O'Grady understands we need to defend ourselves," Mr. Gadiel says.

County and national Republican officials refused to comment on the ad, referring
all questions to Dr. O'Grady, and said their national strategy had been not to
link terrorism and immigration policy in the current campaign.

Mrs. McCarthy, who is running as a Democrat but remains enrolled as a
Republican, called the ad exploitative.

"I denounce her denigrating immigrants who have come to this country," she said
in a statement. "And most of all, I denounce her using this family's tragedy and
the loss of their son for her sordid political purposes."

Dr. O'Grady's campaign manager, Mary Schmidt Roth, said the television spot
evolved from an unsolicited offer of support from Mr. Gadiel, whose views
coincided on many points with the candidate's. The ad, she said, will be
broadcast on cable and network stations beginning today.

Mr. Gadiel, reached by telephone, said he had not yet volunteered to appear in
ads for candidates other than Dr. O'Grady, although he has spoken at events
sponsored by anti-immigration groups.

He described himself as a lifelong Republican, but said he was motivated only by
the conviction that the terror attacks would not have happened if the government
had controlled illegal immigration.

"I am not looking to make any money or advance any political career of my own,"
said Mr. Gadiel, who lives in Connecticut. "I am not looking to exploit my son's
death in any way. If I could turn the clock and have my son back, I wouldn't be
doing this."

He is not the first grieving relative of a crime victim to ally himself with
politicians, especially those who seek to paint an opponent as soft on crime. In
some cases, the grieving relatives themselves have become politicians.

Mrs. McCarthy, for instance, plunged into public life after a gunman killed her
husband and seriously wounded her son during a rampage on a Long Island Rail
Road train in 1993. Advocating gun control, she first appeared in campaign
commercials endorsing Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. In 1996, she decided to run for
Congress and won.

Anti-immigration groups have tried to stoke public fear that foreign terrorists
exploit the American immigration system, but immigration has been a nonissue in
most Congressional races this season, as both parties try to appeal to Hispanic
and immigrant voters. As for the presumed Sept. 11 hijackers, they had entered
the country legally, although at least two had violated the terms of their visas
by the time of the attacks.

"People are getting pounded by one story after another about how alien
malefactors are coming into the country," said Dan Stein, executive director of
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, or FAIR, which has featured Mr.
Gadiel at many of its public meetings. "It's kind of surreal that we don't see
more candidates doing what O'Grady is doing."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 31, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Renewed Calls for Revising Policy on Haitians

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1034 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 30


The sudden appearance of more than 200 Haitians in the waters off Miami on
Tuesday has reignited a debate about the treatment of Haitian refugees and posed
yet another political headache for Gov. Jeb Bush in the final days of his
re-election bid.

Local and national politicians from both parties called on Mr. Bush today to
implore his brother, President George W. Bush, to end what they say is a
discriminatory administration policy requiring indefinite detention of Haitians
seeking asylum. The rule does not apply to refugees of any other nationality.

Hundreds of demonstrators gathered outside the Immigration and Naturalization
Service office in Miami, demanding the release of the detainees pending the
disposition of their cases. At a campaign appearance in Liberty City, a poor,
black Miami neighborhood, Mr. Bush was met by about 200 protesters and
confronted by Representative Carrie P. Meek, a prominent Miami Democrat, who
demanded that he respond to the Haitian refugee situation.

"I came to ask you if you would call your brother and ask him to call I.N.S. to
release the Haitians that are in detention," Ms. Meek said.

Mr. Bush said he had spoken with his brother, but gave no assurances about the
release of the Haitians, who scrambled from a boat on Tuesday afternoon onto a
causeway linking Key Biscayne and Miami.

As immigration officials continued to process the refugees today, six Haitians
from the boat were arrested on charges of smuggling the others for profit. Law
enforcement officials were also investigating how the boat had made it so close
to shore undetected.

In its defense, the Coast Guard here said that it did not have the resources to
catch every smuggling boat in South Florida.

"We have 95,000 miles of coastline, and we can't be everywhere all at once,"
said Petty Officer Anastasia Burns, a spokeswoman. "We do try our best with the
resources and personnel that we have."

In an affidavit submitted in Federal District Court in Miami, immigration
officials contend that, based on interviews with the Haitian detainees, planning
for the trip began in December 2001, and that the refugees paid smugglers to
prepare the freighter for the voyage and for spots on the boat. The trip
originated on Oct. 24 from Shu Shu Bay in Haiti with more than 200 men, women
and children aboard, according to the affidavit.

The issue came at a delicate time for Governor Bush. With less than a week
before Election Day, the matter could help to galvanize black voters in South
Florida, whom the Democratic challenger, Bill McBride, needs if he is to pull
off an upset in the surprisingly close race.

Mr. McBride sent a letter to President Bush today urging him to issue an
executive order releasing the Haitians and allowing them to seek immediate
asylum hearings.

The Bush campaign dismissed the letter as an opportunistic political move.

The Haitians were taken into custody after their boat ran aground about 3 p.m.
in the shallow waters off the Rickenbacker Causeway. The refugees plunged into
the water and bolted for a bridge and a highway, trying to escape the Coast
Guard and the police. Most were caught within hours, although a few might have
escaped, the Miami police said.

As the scene unfolded on Tuesday, immigration advocates, lawmakers and
Haitian-Americans here began to mobilize and to call for the governor and
president to change the policy related to Haitian detainees. The calls
intensified today.

Under a Bush administration policy that does not apply to refugees of any other
nationality, Haitians seeking political asylum are held in detention centers
pending the dispositions of their cases. All others are deported to Haiti.

Civil rights advocates and a growing number of lawmakers from both parties say
the policy is discriminatory in part because a separate law allows Cubans who
reach the United States shore to remain in the country and to apply for
permanent residency in a year.

"Every other nationality has been released when they clear the
credible-fear-of-persecution hurdle," said State Representative Phillip Brutus
of North Miami, a Democrat who is the first Haitian-American elected to the
State Legislature. "We're saying once Haitians hit land they are entitled to the
same due process."

Mr. Bush's office issued a statement saying he was generally concerned about the
issue of immigration enforcement and the safety of refugees who set out on
dangerous journeys to reach Florida.

"I have spoken to White House officials this evening regarding the status of the
Haitians who arrived today in Miami," Governor Bush said in the statement. "I
have been assured that these individuals will receive fair and decent treatment
by federal authorities."

Mr. Bush's campaign office referred questions about Haitian immigration policy
to the governor's office. Representatives there did not return calls seeking
comment.

Some state and national lawmakers said that the governor was doing too little to
address the issue and that the president must take action immediately.

"I call upon the president and those responsible to him to end this gross
discrimination and mistreatment of Haitians, and to offer them the humane
consideration that the United States of America extends to refugees from any
other country," said Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida.

Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Republicans who are
Cuban-Americans, said they supported the Haitian detainees.

"An impressive amount of refugees on a wooden boat, risking their lives at sea,
is indicative of the despair they face at home," the two lawmakers said in a
joint statement. "The rule of law must be followed, and these Haitians must be
afforded all procedural rights, in order to ensure that they are not summarily
deported."

Outside the immigration agency's Miami headquarters, average citizens made their
voices heard today. One protester, Courtney Bell, a 16-year-old white high
school student from Miami, said she attended the rally because "I don't think
freedom should be based on ethnicity."

Another protester, Runny Salomon, 19, whose mother is Haitian, said she joined
the protest "to show my support and to show I understand the struggle they're
going through."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A crowd gathered yesterday at the federal immigration office in
Miami, protesting a policy on illegal immigrants that affects only Haitians.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 2, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Guinea Immigrant Sues Over Conditions in Detention

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 1


Lawyers for a Guinean who say he is mentally retarded and a juvenile, filed a
civil rights suit on Thursday against Immigration and Naturalization Service
officials for what the lawyers call a pattern of abuse and neglect.

The suit, filed in District Court in Alexandria, Va., seeks compensatory and
punitive damages.

The case of the man, Malik Jarno, who arrived alone in January 2001 at Dulles
International Airport in Herndon, Va., has become a symbol of the difficulties
encountered by 5,000 unaccompanied youths who arrive here each year and are
detained by the immigration agency.

Mr. Jarno has said he fled Guinea to seek sanctuary from political persecution
that left his family dead. Because Mr. Jarno tried to enter with a false
passport, he was detained in adult jails for nearly nine months before an
immigration judge conducted a hearing at which the I.N.S. said he should be
deported.

In the suit, Mr. Jarno's lawyers say conditions at Piedmont Regional Jail in
Farmville, Va., where the immigration agency holds adult detainees and where Mr.
Jarno was held last year, reflect a lack of training and capacity to deal with
the detainees, particularly those with special needs.

Mr. Jarno has said he was beaten by jail guards, sprayed in the face with a
pepper solution and ordered to solitary confinement.

"Piedmont prison guards have engaged in a pattern of abusive incidents against
immigration detainees," the complaint said. "The I.N.S. has been informed of
this pattern of abuses. Yet, though I.N.S. officials knew that the plaintiff
would be likely to face a substantial risk of serious physical and emotional
injury as a result of his placement at this facility, they detained him there
for approximately seven months."

An immigration official said today that the agency would review the suit, but
would not comment on specific details of civil litigation. The immigration
agency says that it works with charities and public agencies to place children
in the least restrictive setting possible, but that many are sent to jails for
months at a time without access to critical services.

The agency has said Mr. Jarno, who speaks French and Puhlar, a West African
language, is not a minor, despite a birth certificate that says he was born on
Jan. 7, 1985. In April, the agency learned from the Guinean Embassy here that
the certificate was authentic, a spokeswoman for the agency said, and moved him
to its juvenile shelter in Leesport, Pa., in Berks County, from the Rappahannock
Regional Jail in Stafford, Va.

In July, after conducting an investigation in Guinea, immigration officials
decided that Mr. Jarno was an adult and moved him to an adult jail in York, Pa.
He is there pending his asylum request.

Amnesty International, the American Civil Liberties Union and the American Bar
Association, among other groups, have called for officials to change the
handling of unaccompanied immigrant children. The detentions have caught the
attention of lawmakers, who have pushed legislation in Congress to set standards
for detention, release and counsel.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 8, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Fights Release of Detained Haitians

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 398 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 7


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has appealed a bail ruling that could
grant the release of some detained Haitians, arguing that it could prompt a mass
exodus from Haiti, an agency spokesman said today.

Such a migration would endanger the lives of Haitians at sea and tie up Coast
Guard resources that should be committed to domestic security and the war on
terrorism, the spokesman, Mario Ortiz, said.

"We believe that if this group was to be released, it would send a signal back
to Haiti saying, 'Hey we got in,' and it would trigger a mass migration that
would be a threat to our national security," Mr. Ortiz said.

About 200 Haitians waded ashore on Oct. 29 near Key Biscayne, Fla., after their
boat ran aground. On Wednesday, an immigration judge granted 40 of them bonds as
high as $4,500 on charges that they illegally entered the United States.

More bond hearings were set for Friday and next week.

Immigrants who post bond will be free until their asylum hearings, which have
not been scheduled.

The immigration service appealed every bond granted on Wednesday and will
continue to do so, Mr. Ortiz said. The Haitians granted bond will remain in
detention until the Board of Immigration Appeals rules on their status.

Advocates for immigrants said that releasing the Haitians would not pose a
security threat.

Dina Paul Parks, the executive director of the National Coalition for Haitian
Rights in New York, said releasing Haitians would not fuel a mass migration.

"Folks know that the waters are patrolled," Ms. Parks said. "They know what
their chances are. If someone decides to leave Haiti, it's for a desperate
reason, and I'm not sure the thought of being detained in the U.S. is worse."

The immigration service did not appeal the bond given today to three pregnant
Haitians, an immigration advocate, Cheryl Little, said.

Illegal immigrants from other countries who are found on American soil are
usually released after several days, given more time to prepare for asylum
hearings and have better access to lawyers, Ms. Little said.

The immigration service changed its policy toward Haitians after a large
boatload of Haitians arrived in December, detaining them and expediting their
asylum hearings.

Ms. Little said the government was discriminating against Haitians.

Mr. Ortiz said the new policy was a response to growing concern of an extensive
migration from Haiti.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mother of Sniper Suspect Is Ordered Back to Jamaica

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 794 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 20


Una James, the mother of Lee Malvo, the 17-year-old charged in the sniper
attacks in the Washington area, has been ordered deported to Jamaica by federal
immigration authorities, officials said today.

Ms. James is also being sought by Virginia prosecutors and by defense lawyers
for her son. Her lawyers say she is living in Washington State, but they have
not told the authorities where. It is possible she will be a witness in the
sniper cases.

Officials here and in Seattle said that a federal immigration judge in Seattle
determined in a closed hearing on Tuesday that Ms. James, 38, entered the United
States illegally and ordered her returned to her native Jamaica.

Prosecutors in Fairfax County, Va., where Mr. Malvo is being prosecuted in the
Oct. 14 fatal shooting of an F.B.I. analyst outside a Home Depot in Falls
Church, Va., said they were seeking Ms. James only to serve her with a notice
that her son had been charged with a capital offense that could result in a
death sentence. Officials for Mr. Malvo's defense team say they are seeking her
as a possible witness at trial.

A federal official said it was unlikely that Ms. James would be deported before
prosecutors and defense lawyers had a chance to speak with her. "Just because an
order of deportation is given, it doesn't mean they are not going to try to hold
her as a material witness," one federal official said.

Ms. James has 10 days to appeal the decision. Her lawyers said today that they
were not prepared to discuss the case. "I can neither confirm nor deny anything
about the Una James matter," said Taj Munson, a spokesman for the Northwest
Immigrant Rights Project, which is representing Ms. James.

At an earlier immigration hearing, Ms. James had requested special protection in
the United States because she had encountered spousal abuse in Jamaica. She
later withdrew those papers, the federal officials said. Those officials cast
doubt on Ms. James's reports of spousal abuse, saying that she had also signed a
form indicating that she was not married when she was in Jamaica.

Ms. James and Mr. Malvo are citizens of Jamaica, where a birth certificate lists
him as being born at Queen Victoria Jubilee Hospital in Kingston on Feb. 18,
1985.

Investigators say that Ms. James came to the United States in 2001 using
identification papers that some law enforcement officials suspect were forged by
the other man charged in the sniper case, John Muhammad, 41. Ms. James settled
with Mr. Malvo in Fort Myers, Fla., where she worked at a Red Lobster restaurant
and Mr. Malvo attended Cypress Lake High School.

Eventually, Mr. Malvo moved to Bellingham, Wash., where he joined Mr. Muhammad,
whom he and his mother are believed to have met in Antigua. Local investigators
in Bellingham say that Ms. James at first sent her son money for food, clothing
and school supplies and then abruptly decided in December 2001 to take a bus to
Bellingham.

Ms. James's troubles with immigration began when she called the police in an
effort to get her son away from Mr. Muhammad a day after arriving in Washington.
Investigators say the police called the Immigration and Naturalization Service
after she and Mr. Muhammad had a loud, violent confrontation outside a homeless
shelter in Bellingham.

At a hearing on Dec. 20, federal officials said Ms. James and Mr. Malvo had
entered the country illegally, and the United States Border Patrol agents
arrested them and transferred them to Seattle for immigration hearings. An
immigration judge there released them on a $15,000 bond and ordered the
appearance at Tuesday's hearing.

Prosecutors who are bringing a murder case against Mr. Muhammad in Prince
William County, Va., and defense lawyers for Mr. Malvo all want to learn more
about the events that led Ms. James to try to wrest her son from Mr. Muhammad.

A little more than a month after Ms. James said she lost contact with her son,
investigators now contend, the first of the sniper killings occurred. The police
say Mr. Malvo was the gunman in the February killing of Keenya Cook, who was
shot on her doorstep in Tacoma, Wash. Investigators say Ms. Cook was mistaken
for her aunt, who had sided with one of Mr. Muhammad's former wives in a child
custody case.

Also today, Maryland officials released tapes of the 911 calls reporting four
sniper attacks on Oct. 3, the deadliest day of the shootings.

In one tape, made at 7:41 a.m that day, a caller mistakenly surmised that the
victim, James L. Buchanan, 39, had been injured by the lawn mower he was riding.
"This guy's lawn mower did something, man," the caller said, adding: "He's
bleeding real bad. He's down and out."

Several hours and three shootings later, law enforcement officials determined
that they had a serial sniper on their hands.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Florida: Freedom For 6 Cubans

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 92 words


Immigration officials freed six Cubans found in a stranded boat, including a
14-year-old boy the authorities say is a material witness in the case of two
accused smugglers. The Cubans were found on Monday after the boat ran out of
fuel off Key West. After the Coast Guard towed the boat to shore, the adults
scampered onto a dock while the boy remained on board. Under government policy,
Cubans who make it to shore are generally allowed to stay in the United States.
The boy was not sent back because he is considered a witness in the smuggling
case.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 8, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

TIM MILLER;
A Sickening Prospect

SECTION: Section 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 92 words


To the Editor:

Thank you for the article on Tim Miller and the situation, involving his
companion and American immigration laws, which is causing him to leave his
country "About to Say Goodbye, Obstreperous as Ever" by Donna Perlmutter, Nov.
17 .

I'd like to express how outraged I am at the United States' barbaric refusal to
change age-old, Puritanical laws. I am 21 years old and gay, and the prospect
of, in the future, choosing between my homeland and the person I love sickens
me, discourages me, saddens me, makes me livid.

JORDAN SEAVEY
Brooklyn

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 13, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: NATURALIZATION;
Citizenship Delayed for 1,500; Security Check Backlog Cited

BYLINE:  By MARC SANTORA

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 643 words


Citizenship ceremonies for more than 1,500 immigrants in New York City were
canceled yesterday, and federal officials said they could not keep up with the
national demand for background checks on applicants.

"I can confirm that there have been six ceremonies that have been postponed in
the New York District involving 1,560 candidates for citizenship," said Mark
Thorn, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York.
Mr. Thorn said he could not be specific about why the ceremonies were canceled.

Robert C. Heinemann, the clerk of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, said the
court had been given less than one day's notice that it would have to postpone
yesterday's naturalization of about 250 people.

He said federal immigration officials in New York notified him on Wednesday,
saying they were still waiting for the Federal Bureau of Investigation to notify
them about checks on the applicants' names. "I asked when they would be able to
reschedule, and they said they just didn't know," Mr. Heinemann said.

In the Brooklyn court alone, roughly 1,000 people are sworn in every week. As of
Wednesday, 46,963 people had been naturalized there this year, a number
officials said was comparable to last year's.

Officials at both the immigration service and the Justice Department said the
problem was not limited to New York. "Problems like this are happening
sporadically across the nation," one said.

While there is disagreement about exactly what the problem is, several
government officials said it concerned the F.B.I.'s inability to check all the
names they are given.

A law enforcement official who insisted on anonymity said recent communication
problems between the F.B.I. and the naturalization service had allowed some
people with questionable backgrounds to become citizens. The most notable case
involved a man in New York who was naturalized despite suspected ties to the
Islamist group, Hezbollah. When the mistake was discovered in late October, the
naturalization service began an internal investigation, and five employees were
placed on administrative leave.

On Nov. 13 the agency directed all its field offices that they "should not
proceed in the process of granting any person citizenship until they heard back
from the F.B.I.," according to a law enforcement official who read the memo.

Since then, a government official said, citizenship ceremonies in Chicago and
Texas have been postponed, although the number of people involved was not
disclosed.

Yesterday, dozens of immigrants showed up at the courthouse in Brooklyn
expecting to say the Pledge of Allegiance and become citizens. "They went
through the whole process, the fingerprints, the interviews, the waiting," Mr.
Heinemann said. "Then they were simply told the swearing-in was canceled with no
date for rescheduling."

The process for naturalization includes fingerprint checks by the F.B.I.
Applicants must also demonstrate that they have never been arrested. They are
interviewed by a naturalization service examiner, who gives them a history test
and makes sure they understand English. Applicants must also take an oath to
support the Constitution.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the agency has been criticized for several blunders,
including the mailing of visas to two of the hijackers six months after the
attacks.

A law enforcement official said the main reason for having to postpone the
naturalization ceremonies yesterday was that the workload for the F.B.I. was
simply tremendous.

"We only have so many people to do background checks, and this is the reality,"
the official said, noting that the bureau now has to check the background of
every civilian and commercial pilot in the country.

The official acknowledged that there may be delays, but said, "We want to be
sure that the people we naturalize have nothing in their background
terror-related."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 16, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hope for Speedy Release Of Haitian Refugees Fades

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1191 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 15


Advocates for more than 200 Haitian refugees taken into custody in October had
expected that immigration rules keeping them in indefinite detention would be
eased after President Bush and his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush, said they should be
treated no differently than any other asylum seekers, except Cubans.

But since then, the Bush administration has instead tightened the immigration
rules and broadened their scope, making it virtually impossible for the Haitians
to be released soon.

Under a Bush administration policy adopted a year ago, Haitian refugees who
reach the United States are held in indefinite detention until they are deported
or, less frequently, granted asylum. Critics have called the policy
discriminatory because, until now, it has applied exclusively to Haitians.

Debate over the issue was renewed on Oct. 29 when the Haitian refugees' boat ran
aground off Miami and they plunged into the shallow waters in a desperate effort
to avoid capture, carried on national television. Immigration advocates and
lawmakers from both parties immediately called on the president and the governor
to order the Haitians' release.

Last month, President Bush said, "Haitians and everybody else ought to be
treated the same way, and we're in the process of making sure that happens."

The advocates and lawmakers interpreted the remarks to mean the Haitians would
soon be released and, as with all other migrants, allowed to remain in the
community pending the outcome of their cases. Instead, the Justice Department
has since announced that the Immigration and Naturalization Service will apply
the detention policy to all non-Cubans who arrive in the United States illegally
by sea and will expedite the deportation process for such refugees.

A White House spokesman said that the president continued to support fair
treatment for Haitians, and that the new detention policy was intended to ensure
such treatment.

"It treats all people seeking to come to America illegally by sea the same,"
said the spokesman, Scott McClellan, the deputy White House press secretary.
"The president believes Haitians ought to be treated fairly and humanely."

Immigrant advocates and other critics of the Bush administration's policy on
Haitians contend that the tighter detention regulations and expedited
deportation process for refugees still apply disproportionately to Haitians,
because most people who flee by sea come from Haiti or Cuba. Cuban refugees who
reach American soil are allowed to remain in the United States without detention
during the processing of their asylum claims because of the possibility of
persecution if they are returned. Immigration advocates say Haitians who are
returned face a similar threat, which has gone largely unacknowledged by the
United States government.

"We were hopeful that there was going to be more equal treatment, and I don't
think this is quite what we were expecting," said Jill Greenberg, press
secretary for Senator Bob Graham, Democrat of Florida, who has spoken against
the treatment of Haitian refugees and has written to President Bush urging the
October refugees' release. "One of the things that we've seen with this issue is
that it is really unclear who is responsible for the policy. It is a policy that
Senator Graham has said is inconsistent."

Advocates for the Haitians say that the Bush administration simply never
followed through on the president's pledge, and that Governor Bush of Florida
has not pressed the point with the White House.

"I expected the president to do the right thing and treat the Haitians fairly
and humanely and permit them to be released on bond," said Cheryl Little,
executive director of the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center.

Ms. Little said the detainees were being kept in unreasonable confinement at
local detention centers and hotels, without adequate access to legal
representation or interpreters to assist them in preparing their asylum claims.
She also said about a dozen unaccompanied children were being detained instead
of being released to family members or possible sponsors in the community.

"Things have changed," Ms. Little said, "but for the worse."

A spokeswoman for Governor Bush did not return several telephone calls seeking
comment. Immigration officials said the Haitians were being treated well and the
agency had extended the hours when they could meet with lawyers. An official
said the agency was working on a solution to the detention of the unaccompanied
minors.

"From the beginning, we have been working diligently to release unaccompanied
minors to responsible, qualified adults and a stable environment," said the
official, Ana Santiago, a spokeswoman for the immigration service in Miami.
"It's a long, very detailed process to try to find a home that is a safe home
and a good environment."

Immigration officials also say the detention policy that is keeping all the
Haitians in confinement is intended to prevent future mass migrations. Citing
the same concern, as well as national security considerations, the agency has
also opposed bond that had been approved for many of the detainees by an
immigration judge.

"We were concerned that the release of the aliens would cause mass migration by
sea and could result in loss of life," said Barbara Gonzalez, a spokeswoman for
the immigration service in Miami. "Federal resources would need to be diverted
in order to respond to a mass migration, and those are the same resources that
we rely on to protect the homeland, so we believe it has some very serious
national security implications."

A senior Justice Department official said, "I think there's a lot of concern,
particularly in Florida, that this is aimed at Haitians in particular, which has
a lot of overtones to it." But the official, who spoke on condition of
anonymity, added: "This really applies to anyone who comes illegally by sea.
Thousands of people use smugglers and come through the Caribbean from all over
the world. We also have a lot of Haitians, that's no doubt true, but it is not
aimed at Haitians in particular."

The official acknowledged that Cubans were treated differently. "There is a lot
of discussion I have seen about how Haitians are not treated as well as Cubans,"
he said. "I would like to reword that: We treat everybody not as well as Cubans.
That is because Congress has created a statutory difference for Cubans."

Among Miami Haitians, demonstrators continue to protest, although in smaller
numbers than the hundreds who showed up at the local immigration office
immediately after the detainees arrived. Even local politicians acknowledge they
are running out of ideas for helping the Haitians being detained, who have
little political influence.

"I'm in a quandary as to where to go from here," said State Representative
Phillip Brutus, the first Haitian-American to serve in the Florida Legislature.
"The Bush administration has not said they are going to do anything to release
them on a humanitarian basis, so that door is shut off. We demonstrated a number
of days and we can continue to do that, but obviously it has not really panned
out in what we were hoping for, because nothing has changed."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A police officer stood watch over some of the Haitian refugees
who were taken into custody after their boat ran aground off Miami on Oct. 29.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 19, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DRAGNET;
U.S. Drops Armenian Men From List of Visitors Who Must Register

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 372 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 18


Reversing course, the Department of Justice has dropped Armenia from the list of
countries whose adult male citizens living temporarily in the United States must
register with immigration authorities.

The turnabout, on Tuesday, followed loud complaints from the government of
Armenia and Armenian groups in the United States over a notice, published by the
department in the Federal Register last Friday, that added Armenia, Pakistan and
Saudi Arabia to 18 countries already listed in the so-called special
registration program.

"I don't know why Armenia appeared on the list in the first place," said Arman
Kirakossian, the Armenian ambassador to the United States. "We have no terrorist
groups in Armenia. We are part of the campaign against terrorism."

Armenia is a predominantly Christian country, the ambassador noted. With the
exception of North Korea, the 20 countries that remain on the list are Arab or
predominantly Muslim.

Mr. Kirakossian said that roughly 1.5 million people of Armenian descent were
living in the United States, at least a third of them here in the Los Angeles
area. He said he had no estimate of the number of Armenians in the country on
temporary visas who would have been forced to register with the immigration
service.

The ambassador said that as soon as the notice appeared last Friday, he and
other Armenian officials contacted the White House, Congress and the Justice
Department to try to have the decision overturned. Armenian-American groups
joined in the intensive lobbying effort, which continued through the weekend.

"What we were told was it was a misunderstanding, a mistake," Mr. Kirakossian
said.

Jorge Martinez, a Justice Department spokesman, offered no explanation for the
original decision or the change.

"I am not responsible for what is published in the Federal Register," Mr.
Martinez said. "All I can say is that two new countries were added this week:
Pakistan and Saudi Arabia."

The program requires men over the age of 16 from countries considered sources of
potential terrorists to appear before officers of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to be interviewed, fingerprinted and photographed.
Failure to register can result in criminal charges and immediate expulsion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 20, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DRAGNET;
U.S. Starts Freeing Foreigners Detained in Antiterror Sweep

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 710 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 19


Federal immigration authorities today began releasing scores of foreign-born men
who had been detained in a nationwide dragnet designed to track potential
terrorists.

The detentions by the Immigration and Naturalization Service brought an
avalanche of protests about the program, which focuses on men and boys from 20
countries, mostly Arab and Muslim. The so-called special registration program
requires all men over 16 from these countries who are temporarily in the United
States to appear before an I.N.S. officer to be interviewed, fingerprinted and
photographed.

Immigration officers have arrested hundreds of men in the last week after they
appeared voluntarily to register, with an unknown number still in custody today.
An I.N.S. official in California told family members and immigration lawyers
that virtually all of those still held would be released in the next 24 hours,
with instructions to report back in 30 to 60 days to complete the registration
process, lawyers said.

Immigration officials acknowledged today that they could not handle the flood of
men who appeared to register this week and that they were not prepared for the
chaos and anger the program provoked.

An agency official in Southern California said that Justice Department officials
in Washington dictated the rules of the program and gave local authorities
little leeway to determine who should be detained or released. As a result,
hundreds of men with minor visa violations were handcuffed and locked up for
days while officials sorted through mountains of paperwork and bail
applications.

Today, officials said that anyone whose bond was set at $5,000 or below, which
was the case for the vast majority of the detainees, would be released, even if
the bond had not been paid.

The detainees from Los Angeles, Orange County and San Diego are being held in a
number of jails and immigration detention centers in the region, including the
I.N.S. lockup in Florence, Ariz., according to reports from lawyers and family
members.

The program touched off noisy protests from Iranian-American and Arab-American
groups, as well as civil libertarians. Several lawsuits have been filed seeking
to halt the detentions or overturn the registration program. Immigrant
communities in Southern California are aflame with rumors of gross mistreatment
and even death in the custody of the immigration service.

An immigration service official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said
today that the agency was overwhelmed by the number of people who appeared at
I.N.S. offices on Monday, the reporting deadline for men from Iran, Iraq, Libya,
Sudan and Syria.

The official said that those whose visas were in order were interviewed,
fingerprinted and released. But hundreds who had overstayed their visas or could
not provide adequate evidence of their status were detained. There was
apparently no plan for mass detentions, so many were kept overnight in temporary
lockups or local jails, some with no sleeping facilities, said people who went
through the process.

"Our objective was to hold people only until we had completed confirmation of
records checks," the I.N.S. official said. "But a staggering number of people
showed up on the last day and we couldn't keep up."

Angelo Paparelli, a lawyer from Irvine, Calif., who represents three Iranian
citizens detained on Monday, was awaiting word on their fates late today. He
said that one of his clients, 49-year-old Edward Beitmirza, was taken from a
detention center to a hospital because he was thought to have tuberculosis. He
was released from the hospital but remained in custody, Mr. Paparelli said.

"Monday was the worst day I've ever spent at I.N.S. in 20 years of working with
them," Mr. Paparelli said. "We were on the eighth floor of the federal building
in Los Angeles and everyone in the corridor was weeping or in a state of extreme
anxiety. Across the hall was the employee health center where aerobics music was
blaring."

The program is the vanguard of a sweeping plan begun after the Sept. 11
terrorist attacks called the National Security Entry-Exit Registration System
designed to track millions of foreigners in the United States on temporary
visas. Men from an additional 13 countries have until Jan. 10 to register.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Immigrants Sue Over Detentions After Checking In

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24


A coalition of Muslim-American groups sued Attorney General John Ashcroft and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service today after hundreds of immigrant men
were arrested and detained last week while trying to register with federal
authorities.

The registration is part of an effort by the Justice Department to identify
potential terrorists.

The class-action suit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles, says that
immigration officials unlawfully arrested and detained the men without
appropriate warrants and that it is illegal to arrest and deport people who are
eligible to apply for legal status based on family relationships or employment.

The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the Alliance of Iranian
Americans, the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the National Council of
Pakistani Americans, as well as four people who were arrested last week in
California, are the lead plaintiffs.

A spokesman for the immigration agency would not comment on the case, and the
Justice Department did not return calls.

Last month, Mr. Ashcroft issued an order that requires virtually all male
noncitizens older than 16 from more than 12 countries, mostly Arab and Muslim,
to be interviewed, photographed and fingerprinted by the government. Thousands
of immigrants, most of whom have work and study visas, are affected. Those who
fail to comply face criminal charges and immediate deportation.

The deadline for men from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria was Dec. 16, the
first in a series of deadlines to end in 2004 with the registration of all
foreign citizens in the United States.

The program does not apply to permanent residents, people who were given or
asked for asylum before Nov. 6 or diplomats.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Immigrants Sue Over Detentions After Checking In

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 24


A coalition of Muslim-American groups sued Attorney General John Ashcroft and
the Immigration and Naturalization Service today after hundreds of immigrant men
were arrested and detained last week while trying to register with federal
authorities.

The registration is part of an effort by the Justice Department to identify
potential terrorists.

The class-action suit, filed in federal court in Los Angeles, says that
immigration officials unlawfully arrested and detained the men without
appropriate warrants and that it is illegal to arrest and deport people who are
eligible to apply for legal status based on family relationships or employment.

The American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, the Alliance of Iranian
Americans, the Council on American-Islamic Relations and the National Council of
Pakistani Americans, as well as four people who were arrested last week in
California, are the lead plaintiffs.

A spokesman for the immigration agency would not comment on the case, and the
Justice Department did not return calls.

Last month, Mr. Ashcroft issued an order that requires virtually all male
noncitizens older than 16 from more than 12 countries, mostly Arab and Muslim,
to be interviewed, photographed and fingerprinted by the government. Thousands
of immigrants, most of whom have work and study visas, are affected. Those who
fail to comply face criminal charges and immediate deportation.

The deadline for men from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria was Dec. 16, the
first in a series of deadlines to end in 2004 with the registration of all
foreign citizens in the United States.

The program does not apply to permanent residents, people who were given or
asked for asylum before Nov. 6 or diplomats.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 4, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican ID Cards

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

The "matricula consular" issued by Mexican consulates to Mexican citizens is an
open invitation to identity fraud ("New York, Citing Security, Rejects Mexican
ID Cards," news article, Dec. 28).

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has already arrested Mexican citizens
holding several "valid" matriculas with different names and birth dates, all
carrying the photo of the person using the cards and all issued by the same
Mexican consular office.

Violators of immigration law have no right to be in this country and no right to
work here. Federal and state agencies, businesses and banks should be prohibited
from aiding identity theft and fraud, defrauding of employers, money laundering
and other violations of American laws by accepting the matricula.

JULI ANN WEBER
Westport, Conn., Dec. 30, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 4, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: TRACKING TRAVELERS;
U.S. to Make Airlines Give Data On Americans Going Overseas

BYLINE:  By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 3


Americans traveling abroad would have to give the government detailed personal
information before leaving or returning under an antiterrorism rule that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service proposed today.

The rule would force airlines and shipping companies to collect and submit to
the government the name, birth date, sex, passport number, home country and
address of every passenger and crew member. The intent is to provide the
authorities with more complete information about who enters and leaves the
United States.

Currently, air and shipping lines are not required to provide such information
to the government about Americans. The proposed rule would make it mandatory for
carriers to supply the information about American citizens and noncitizens,
immigration officials said.

Much of the information is already collected from people entering the country in
an arrangement in which 80 percent of commercial carriers voluntarily give
personal information about their passengers to the immigration service, the
officials said. The added information would be collected while the aircraft or
vessel was en route to the United States and electronically transmitted to
immigration officials on the ground at the port of entry.

The rule would also require carriers to provide information about people who are
leaving the United States within 48 hours after the departure of their flight or
vessel, the officials said.

The rule would take effect after a 30-day comment period. It would apply to
passengers and crew members on airlines, cargo flights, cruise ships and other
vessels. The information would be electronically checked against watch lists and
databases of people suspected of being involved in terrorism or other criminal
activity.

The changes are part of a border security bill passed overwhelmingly by Congress
and signed into law by President Bush on May 14, 2001. The law increases the
number of immigration inspectors and investigators and heightens the scrutiny of
visa applications from countries listed as sponsors of terrorism. The F.B.I. and
the Central Intelligence Agency would have to increase information sharing with
the State Department, which issues visas. The government will meld certain
databases of law enforcement and intelligence agencies, to help screen visa
applicants and foreigners entering the United States.

The American Civil Liberties Union said the new information storehouse must not
be used as the basis for a national identification system. In monitoring foreign
visitors, the rights group said, the government must not compromise Americans'
privacy rights or harass people who "look foreign" or are members of racial
minorities.

Civil liberties advocates were alarmed at some early proposals, including one
that might have made noncitizens carry identification documents. Those ideas
were dropped after bipartisan negotiations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: JUSTICE DEPARTMENT;
U.S. Expands List of Nations Whose Visitors Must Register

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 360 words


The Justice Department yesterday expanded a registration program for visitors,
most of them from Muslim and Arab nations, to include men from Bangladesh,
Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and Kuwait.

At the same time, officials said men from 18 of the 20 nations already on the
list who failed to meet previous registration deadlines would have extra time to
report to Immigration and Naturalization Service offices around the country.

The program was instituted by Attorney General John Ashcroft to track visitors
to the United States, many of whom overstay their visas and fail to inform the
immigration service of their whereabouts. But the program has prompted criticism
that it unfairly singles out men 16 and older of specific nationalities who in
many cases are in the process of applying for residency or citizenship. Hundreds
of registrants have been arrested since the program began on Dec. 16, with most
released to await hearings before immigration judges.

Dr. William F. Schulz, executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A., said
yesterday that he was "deeply disturbed" that the government "once again is
targeting individuals on the basis of citizenship, gender and nationality." He
said the registration program might "violate United Nations and international
treaties to which the U.S. is party."

But an immigration official in Los Angeles said the Justice Department planned
to include in the program visitors from all nations by 2005 and not just those
considered a security threat.

"Eventually, everyone will have to comply," the official said.

A registration deadline for men from Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea,
Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia, Sudan,
Syria, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen has been extended to Feb. 7,
while Pakistanis and Saudi Arabians have until Feb. 21 to register. The deadline
for visitors from the five nations added yesterday is March 28.

Visitors from those nations who fail to register are subject to deportation.
Typically, the registration process entails submitting to fingerprinting, a
criminal background check and questions on finances and employment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 20, 2003 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1125 words


The Pakistanis pictured here were deported by the United States in the last year
for entering the country illegally or overstaying their visas. All said they had
been trying to legalize their immigration status. None were charged with
terror-related offenses.

SYED WASIM ABBAS

The 33-year-old gas station owner from York, Pa., said he attended Brooklyn
College for three years after entering the United States on a student visa in
1992. He speaks English with a Brooklyn accent. He is a former football
linebacker and still jokes about how Americans often mistake him for The Rock,
the professional wrestler. He happily recalls playing pickup basketball with
"Spanish, blacks, Pakistanis and Indians" in Brooklyn. "I couldn't score," he
said. "They called me a hack."

After hearing a rumor that it was possible to receive a green card if one
applied in Chicago, he flew there and filed an application with a false Chicago
address in 1998, he said. But he said he decided to skip his court hearing in
Chicago after hearing that other people were arrested for doing the same thing.
In 2000, he applied for residency after marrying an American citizen, a
Pakistani American woman he met at a college party.

Arrested by I.N.S. agents last May, he said he was questioned for 30 minutes. He
said he had spent a month in the Bergen County jail and was deported on the day
he was to see a judge. He said he was unaware of any deportation order against
him. He and other Pakistanis were handcuffed throughout a 16-hour I.N.S.
deportation flight to Pakistan, he said, and his wife remains in the United
States.

He estimates he lost $40,000 he invested in his gas station, which was seized by
creditors after his arrest. "It's pretty obvious," he said. "They are cracking
down on Muslims."

NAEEM JANJUA

The 30-year-old former owner of a small business said he sneaked into the United
States in 1990 in the back of a tractor-trailer from Mexico. He said he had
applied for asylum and worked in various jobs. By September 2001, he said, he
had opened his own trucking business, married a fellow immigrant from Fiji, had
two daughters and bought a home in Heyward, Calif. Each year, he said, he
applied to the I.N.S. for a work permit and received one.

Last April, he said, I.N.S. agents arrested him for filing a second asylum
application in 1996 under a false name. He admitted making the filing, but said
he had grown desperate after hearing nothing about his first application for six
years. After spending four months in jail, he said, he was deported in August
without seeing a judge.

He estimates that he has lost $100,000 on his home, which has been sold, and his
business, which is closed. He says his wife does not want to move to Pakistan.
"I lost my business, my home, everything," he said. "And I'm about to lose my
family, too."

KHURRAM ALTAF

The 34-year-old father of three said he had managed a Pilot Oil Corporation
truck stop on Interstate 78 in Bloomsbury, N.J. "I was the only Pakistani Muslim
in the company," he said proudly. He said he entered the United States in 1985
on a tourist visa at the age of 18 and had overstayed it. A lawyer he had paid
$10,000 botched a 1996 residency application, he said. An appeal of that
decision, and an application for citizenship sponsored by his sister, an
American citizen, were still pending when he was deported, he said. He said he
had applied for and received annual work permits from the I.N.S.

He recounted being arrested by I.N.S. agents at his home in South Amboy, N.J.,
last April, and being briefly questioned about whether he was involved with Al
Qaeda, had relatives in Afghanistan and could fly a plane. He was held in the
Bergen County jail for two months and deported last summer without seeing a
judge, he said. His three children, who are American citizens, and his wife
remain in New Jersey, he said. He does not want to bring his daughter to
Pakistan because she has a hearing disability and he believes that she would
struggle in school. Unemployed in Pakistan, he has no idea what he is going to
do. "Without family, life is nothing," he said. "I'm like a dead person."

NAEEM SHAIKH

The 31-year-old Queens taxi driver said he illegally entered the United States
in 1994. Smuggled from Pakistan through three countries, he used a fake green
card to pass through immigration at Kennedy Airport. On Sept. 11, he was in
Battery Park when there was an explosion in the north tower of the World Trade
Center. He then watched a second plane slam into the south tower, abandoned his
taxi and fled for his life.

After the attacks, he wanted to normalize his legal status. In March, he
answered an ad from a Florida lawyer who offered to sponsor immigrants for
citizenship. A week later, F.B.I. and I.N.S. agents arrested him. The ad, he
believes, was a ruse. He said F.B.I. agents had asked him if he knew Osama bin
Laden, if he had been to Afghanistan or Kashmir and if he could fly a plane.
They offered him citizenship in exchange for information.

His wife, who is also Pakistani, was pregnant when he was arrested. He estimates
that he has lost $18,000 in clothing and furniture left in his apartment. But he
praised several American friends who helped support his wife during the month he
spent in jail before being deported without seeing a judge.

His wife and his new son, an American citizen he has not seen, are in Montreal.
He hopes to join them, if he can get a Canadian visa. "It's not just us," he
said, referring to Pakistanis. "Muslims all over the will be against the U.S. if
they keep doing this."

SYED BASHIR SHAH

The 55-year-old former video store owner and security guard at Los Angeles
International Airport said he entered the United States on a tourist visa in
1991 and applied for asylum, citing threats from a violent Karachi political
party. He said that he passed a security check of all airport employees last
winter and that a valid work permit was sent to his house even after he was
deported. "In 1997, I applied to renew my case," he said. "The lawyer charged
$10,000." He said he never knew about his court hearing because his lawyer moved
to Australia.

He recounted being arrested at his home in June by an agent who told him that
his asylum application had been denied. He was deported in August after spending
four months in jail without seeing a judge. He is now in Pakistan living with
his wife and three children he had not seen for over a decade. Of the men
interviewed, he expressed the least anger at the United States. But he accused
the I.N.S. officers and judges of being biased against Pakistanis, a charge
immigration officials deny. "There are hearings for Chinese, Mexicans," he said.
"They have chance. For Pakistanis, no hearing, no nothing, that's it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 23, 2003



CORRECTION: A series of profiles on Monday of Pakistanis who were recently
deported from the United States for having entered the country illegally or
having overstayed visas misspelled the surname of a lawyer for one man. The
lawyer, who represents Anser Mehmood, a 42-year-old truck driver and father of
four who lived in Bayonne, N.J., is Martin R. Stolar, not Stoller.

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Agence France-Presse for The New York Times); (Dean
Pictures/Polaris); (David Rohde/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DETAINEES;
Hunger Strike by 6 Immigrants Enters 2nd Week

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 368 words


A stalemate between immigrant detainees and immigration officials entered its
second week yesterday, as six men continued a hunger strike to protest the
conditions at a New Jersey jail.

The men, held for months on various immigration charges, have been drinking
juice and water but have refused solid food since Jan. 14.

Several of the detainees said they simply wanted the chance to hug their
children during visits. At the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, where they are
held, a glass wall separates prisoners and visitors.

Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service district office in
Newark acknowledged that their request could be met by transferring the men to
one of the other New Jersey jails where the federal agency rents space.

So far, they have refused to do so.

"Our position is that they should stop this kind of disruptive behavior in the
facility, and then they can say, 'Here are our demands about visitation,' " said
Kerry Gill, an agency spokesman. "The agency would consider their demands, but
there's no guarantee they would be met."

The six hunger strikers are being monitored by medical personnel, Mr. Gill said.

The detainees said in interviews from the jail that they would not eat until
they were promised a transfer.

"I'm going to keep going until I'm dead or I see my daughter," vowed Saleh
Hamza, a Lebanese man whose daughter was born after he was arrested 13 months
ago on immigration charges.

The government has arrested hundreds of Muslim and Arab men since Sept. 11,
2001, and charged them with immigration violations that rarely caught the
attention of federal officials before.

Another jailed immigrant, the only hunger striker with a separate grievance,
said he was refusing food to protest his continued detention.

The immigrant, Farouk Abdel-Muhti, 55, has been in the agency's custody since
April, when he was charged with failing to leave the country after receiving a
deportation order. His case caused a stir in Arab-American circles when he said
the government had singled him out for arrest because of his outspoken support
for Palestinians.

As a Palestinian, he poses a special problem for the immigration agency because
he has no state to take him back.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 25, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

PRO FOOTBALL;
Cab Drivers and Guards Detained in a Three-Month Immigration Sweep

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 691 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Jan. 24


Federal immigration authorities have rounded up 69 foreign-born cab drivers and
private security guards in San Diego in what they said was an effort to ensure
the security of this weekend's Super Bowl, officials said today.

The three-month sweep apparently did not net any known terrorists, but did find
34 foreigners with prior criminal convictions and dozens of others with visa
violations, Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said. Criminal
charges are pending against six people and others face immediate deportation,
officials said.

The roundup came as the immigration service conducted a nationwide registration
program requiring tens of thousands of temporary residents from mostly Muslim
countries to appear at I.N.S. offices to be interviewed, fingerprinted and
photographed. Hundreds of them have been detained for visa violations and scores
will be deported. That program touched off an outcry from Arab-American groups,
civil libertarians and immigrants' rights groups.

Adele Fasano, the immigration service's San Diego district director, said that
the three-month Super Bowl investigation had identified more than 100 people
with criminal backgrounds or visa violations at the targeted firms. She said 41
remained at large. She said that the program had made the Super Bowl more
secure.

"I would say that public safety has been enhanced as a result of our extensive
screening of individuals who are non-U.S. citizens and are working in activities
related to the Super Bowl, and had access to sensitive areas," Fasano said.

The immigration service said the San Diego program was designed to identify
people who might have access to Qualcomm Stadium, where the Super Bowl will be
played. Officials reviewed 11,000 immigrant employment verification forms (known
as I-9 forms) at 187 security guard companies in San Diego and Imperial
Counties. They also reviewed the licenses of 4,500 taxi, limousine and shuttle
bus drivers working in the two counties.

Authorities arrested 45 security guards, most of them from Latin American
countries, and 24 taxi and limousine drivers, many from countries suspected of
having terrorist cells, officials said. The immigration agency did not release
the names or nationalities of the detainees.

One of those arrested was Efrain Alvarez Jacobo, a Mexican with convictions on
weapons and drug charges. He was deported several years ago but returned to the
country to live with his wife and two children. He was working as a private
security guard when he was picked up last month.

His lawyer, Gerald Singleton, said that his client did not pose any security
risk and called him a victim of racial profiling.

"They went after him because of his ethnicity," Singleton said.

Jordan Budd, legal director for the San Diego chapter of the American Civil
Liberties Union, said that the Super Bowl sweep did not identify any terrorism
risks and served only to further stigmatize immigrants, who have come under
harsh government scrutiny since the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks.

"They just seem to be trying to cull anyone who is out of status and who holds
one of these kinds of jobs so they can declare to the public that they have
taken meaningful action to protect the Super Bowl," Budd said. "That proposition
is farcical. They are just scapegoating the immigrant community while doing
nothing to make the public safer."

He noted that federal authorities had apparently not conducted a similar survey
of American citizens holding similar jobs to assure that no one with a criminal
background could gain access to the stadium.

"With respect to the larger rationale of public safety, if what they're trying
to do is identify people with criminal records, it makes no sense to simply
target the immigrant population," Budd said. "There's no sign they've done
similar background checks of U.S. citizens with the same sorts of jobs --
transportation or security positions."

Fasano said that the I.N.S. did not have authority to investigate American
citizens. She said the San Diego police and federal law enforcement agencies
were responsible for monitoring the majority of workers at the Super Bowl.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As a Super Bowl security measure, troops from the California
National Guard patrolled fuel tanks across the street from Qualcomm Stadium.
(Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 25, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ex-I.N.S. Inspector Convicted of Fraud

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 174 words


A former federal immigration inspector was convicted yesterday of tax evasion
and impersonating a federal official in a scheme that involved swindling Chinese
immigrants by promising to help them bring their relatives to this country from
China.

The conviction, in United States District Court in Brooklyn, came after a
three-week trial, in which federal prosecutors said the former inspector, Tin
Yat Chin, took nearly $1 million from about a dozen legal immigrants seeking to
bring about 60 of their relatives to this country.

Assistant United States attorneys in Brooklyn, Margo Brodie and Lara Treinis,
told jurors that the defendant, who was fired from his job with the Immigration
and Naturalization Service in 1993, took advantage of the dreams of immigrants.
They said he told some of his victims that he was an immigration official and
convinced them that payments were required to get visas for their relatives.

Sentencing before Judge Nina Gershon was scheduled for April 11. Mr. Chin could
face a maximum of 18 years in prison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
Government Extends Deadline For Foreign Students to Sign In

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 374 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14


The Justice Department extended by one month today the deadlines for thousands
of visitors from seven mainly Muslim countries to register with immigration
authorities.

About 15,000 men ages 16 and older from Saudi Arabia and Pakistan have until
March 21 to be fingerprinted, photographed and present required documents at
offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The deadline had been
Feb. 21.

A group of 19,000 men from Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and Kuwait will
have from Feb. 24 to April 25 to register, four weeks beyond the original March
28 date.

The extensions were issued after a wave of protests over the program has largely
subsided. Hundreds of men were detained when they showed up at immigration
offices to comply. Officials of the Justice Department say that they have 139 in
custody and that many will be released on bond while their cases are processed.

The registration is part of an effort to tighten border security and track
foreign visitors with expired visas or who may be here illegally. Seven people
suspected of being terrorists have been identified because of the program, along
with 401 criminals or others who should not have been in the country, a
spokesman for the Justice Department, Jorge Martinez, said.

A spokeswoman for the Council on American-Islamic relations, Hodan Hassan, said
that the detentions stopped last month but that many Muslims continued to regard
the program as discriminatory and ineffective in capturing terrorists. "There's
still a lot of confusion and uncertainty about who applies," Ms. Hassan said.
"It still stigmatizes the American Muslim community."

About 46,000 students, tourists, executives and relatives from 25 countries are
required to register if they expect to stay in the United States for an extended
period. Other countries will be added.

The requirements do not apply to American citizens, legal permanent residents,
people who are seeking asylum or diplomats.

Deadlines have passed for people from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Syria, all
considered by Washington as state sponsors of terrorism, and visitors from
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Arizona: Bicyclist's Day In Court

BYLINE:  By Charlie LeDuff (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 94 words


Reza K. Baluchi, the Iranian bicyclist who pedaled around in the world in the
name of peace only to be arrested in the United States, got a chance to explain
himself in federal immigration court.

The 30-year-old wanderer, left, told Judge LaMonte Freerks in Florence that he
did not know he had crossed the Mexican border into the United States. He was
spotted in November in the Sonora Desert. Mr. Baluchi has pedaled across six
continents in six years. Judge Freerks is expected to rule on Thursday whether
Mr. Baluchi will be deported .   Charlie LeDuff (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 28, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iranian Cyclist Detained at Border Wins Political Asylum

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 724 words


An Iranian man who cycled 46,000 miles around the world for six years on a
personal peace mission only to be arrested in the Arizona desert for entering
the United States illegally was granted political asylum yesterday by an
immigration judge.

But the cyclist, Reza K. Baluchi, 30, remains in custody in Florence, Ariz.,
while the Immigration and Naturalization Service decides whether to appeal the
decision of the judge, LaMonte Freerks, to allow Mr. Baluchi to remain in the
United States.

"I have been four months in jail," Mr. Baluchi said in a telephone interview
from the immigration service's detention center. "Two days more no problem."

It is uncertain whether Mr. Baluchi will be released that quickly. The federal
immigration lawyer who prosecuted him, Virginia Vasquez, said she had 30 days to
file a notice of appeal. "It's under advisement," she said.

Ms. Vasquez argued that Mr. Baluchi had not been persecuted for his political
beliefs in Iran, but rather had simply been prosecuted for breaking the law
there. The Iranian government, she said, has a right to impose whatever laws it
sees fit, and the United States has no obligation to protect someone who
violates them.

Mr. Baluchi said that after his arrest on Nov. 10 he received hundreds of
letters of support from around the country, as well as dozens of e-mail messages
sent to a Web site set up on his behalf by a fellow cyclist. What seemed to have
appealed to his supporters was the account of his odyssey, which he said took
him from a life of persecution in Iran for associating with
"counterrevolutionaries" to a life on the road, visiting places like China,
South Africa, France, New Zealand and Panama -- 54 countries in all. Everywhere
he went, Mr. Baluchi said, he spread his message of love and peace.

In Monterrey, Mexico, Mr. Baluchi applied for a visa to enter the United States.
After waiting three months with no sign of the document, he said, he got lost
while riding near the border and set up camp on the United States side, where
Border Patrol agents picked him up.

In the climate after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, in which thousands of men
from Muslim nations have been forced to register with immigration authorities,
an Iranian riding solo in the desert raised suspicions.

During his asylum hearing, which began Monday, Mr. Baluchi was nervous, said his
lawyer, Suzannah Maclay of the Florence Immigrant and Refugee Rights Project.

"He was clearly very anxious," Ms. Maclay said. "He had expected to get a final
decision, and instead he's taken back to detention."

Ms. Maclay argued that her client should not be returned to Iran because he
faced persecution there. In 1994, she said, Mr. Baluchi was arrested in Tehran
by what she called "Islamic extremist security forces" for wearing a Michael
Jackson T-shirt and for carrying a "banned prerevolutionary videotape" of a
movie, a love story showing women in bathing suits. With no notice of the
charges against him, Mr. Baluchi was beaten, hung by his cuffed wrists from a
tree and interrogated about his political associations, she said.

A month later, Ms. Maclay told the judge, Mr. Baluchi was arrested again, for
eating a sandwich during Ramadan, the monthlong period in which Muslims fast
during the day. She said Mr. Baluchi had been taken to jail and beaten
unconscious. Several days later, a judge sentenced him to 70 lashes in public.
In a third arrest, police dislocated Mr. Baluchi's shoulder, she said, and he
was later sentenced to two years in jail for being part of what the police said
was a dissident organization. He served 18 months.

Fearful of remaining in Iran, Mr. Baluchi said, he left the country with his
bicycle. In his travels, he unsuccessfully applied for political asylum in
Germany.

Ms. Maclay argued that because Mr. Baluchi has now spoken out against Iranian
leaders, he would face even more danger if he returned to Iran.

"Today I'm happy," Mr. Baluchi said with his customary optimism after the
hearing. Once he gets out, he said, he plans to ride to Los Angeles. From there,
he will run across the country, eight hours a day, to New York City -- and
ground zero. Shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Baluchi wrote that he would
conclude his voyage at the site of the World Trade Center, "so that my message
of peace and love can reach the whole American people."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reza K. Baluchi last month in a federal detention center in
Florence, Ariz. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 13, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
Vermont Refugee Aid Group Says Policy Thins Resources

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., March 11


A group that has provided Pakistanis and others applying to enter Canada with
housing and food says it is at its saturation point and will stop offering aid
to new arrivals on Friday.

The group, Vermont Refugee Assistance, has asked the Canadian government to
abolish a new immigration policy the group says has stretched its resources well
beyond capacity.

The policy, enacted on Jan. 30, allows border officials to send refugees seeking
asylum back to the United States with an appointment, usually about a month
after the initial visit, for a hearing if the staff cannot handle the day's
caseload.

The policy was enacted after the United States required Pakistanis and other
foreigners to register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service late last
year. Asylum applications soared, especially among Pakistanis, one of Canada's
largest immigrant groups.

Rene Mercier, a spokesman for the Canadian immigration agency, said there were
no plans to change the policy.

Patrick Giantonio, the director of Vermont Refugee Assistance, says it has
helped more than 200 people who have sought asylum at the Lacolle, Quebec,
application office and were legally able to return to the United States. Mr.
Giantonio said the group started the effort as a short-term response to help
ease problems at shelters in Plattsburgh, N.Y., the closest American city to the
border.

The organization has 85 asylum seekers in its network. Twenty are living at a
temporary shelter at the Burlington Salvation Army, while the rest are living
with host families in Vermont. While the number of asylum seekers at Lacolle has
dropped to the normal level of 6 to 12 applications per day from a high of 56,
appointments are backlogged until May. Because of this, Mr. Giantonio said, it
is nearly impossible for him and the one other woman on his staff to take in any
more people.

"We took this on as a short-term emergency response; it's not what we do," he
said. "A couple of families a day is more than we can take on. We don't have the
infrastructure to do this. We cobbled an infrastructure together for this
short-term response."

The letter, addressed to Denis Coderre, the Canadian Minister of Citizenship and
Immigration, said: "V.R.A. is neither a disaster relief organization nor a human
service agency. We have no additional human or financial resources for this
effort." The letter goes on to say the organization does not wish to "facilitate
the ability of governments to implement policies and procedures we believe to be
unjust and unnecessary."

Mr. Giantonio said he had not yet received a response to the letter, which was
mailed last Friday.

Mr. Mercier said the government was trying to process immigrants at the border
in the safest, most thorough way possible. Asylum seekers are asked to make an
appointment for a number of reasons, including a backlog of people and a lack of
interpreters.

"It's working," he said. "There are two goals. Number 1 is the safety of Canada
and Number 2 is to maintain our humanitarian tradition. We're open to refugees.
These people will be heard. They will have a date."

In the past, when Canada processed applicants in a day, it sought assurances
that the United States would not detain immigrants waiting for asylum. But it is
not doing so now because the processing takes longer.

United States officials would not say how many immigrants have been detained
since Jan. 30, but Vermont Refugee Assistance puts the figure at 130. Michael
Gilhooly, a spokesman for the United States Customs and Border Protection
Department, said that a person would only be detained for cause.

"There would be a variety of reasons, but the overriding reasons would be if we
arrested someone at the port of entry, essentially we're doing something we
always do," he said. "If they're illegally present in the United States we will
take the appropriate action for that individual case.

Janet Dench, the executive director of the Canadian Council for refugees, said
that both countries are "washing their hands" of the problem.

Mr. Giantonio said that the burden of helping the refugees would now be on
service agencies in Plattsburgh. The Lacolle center immediately processed all of
the claimants seeking asylum today, which Mr. Giantonio says is a step in the
right direction. But, he said, things are uncertain after Friday.

"I don't know what's going to happen," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
New Asylum Policy Comes Under Fire

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 329 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 18


The Bush administration's decision to begin detaining asylum seekers from Iraq
and 33 other countries where Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups have operated
met with harsh criticism today from civil liberties groups and immigration
lawyers.

The administration said the policy, announced on Monday as one of a number of
counterterrorism measures imposed in anticipation of a war with Iraq, should
affect fewer than 600 immigrants a year, most of them Iraqi.

But civil liberties groups and immigration-law specialists said the wording of
the administration's announcement was so broad that it could ultimately require
the imprisonment of thousands of asylum seekers, including Iraqis persecuted and
even tortured by the government of Saddam Hussein.

"This sends a message to people who are the victims of human rights abuses that
we are going to put you into detention if you come from the very countries that
the U.S. has identified -- that President Bush has identified -- as having
torture chambers and committing egregious human rights abuses," said Bill
Frelick, director of the refugee program for Amnesty International USA.

Under the policy, asylum seekers from the designated countries, who would
otherwise have gone free while their claims of persecution were reviewed by
federal immigration authorities, will remain in custody throughout the
processing period. That period can last several months, in some cases more than
a year.

At a news conference today, Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge said the
detention policy was being imposed to prevent terrorists from trying to enter
the United States by making asylum claims.

"We want to make absolutely certain during this period of time you are who you
say you are," Mr. Ridge said. "We'll be looking, obviously scrutinizing all
asylum seekers at this time, but there are countries that we believe are
supportive of Al Qaeda or countries where we know there is an Al Qaeda network
or other terrorist organizations."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 9, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: IMMIGRANTS;
Cardinal Seeks Citizenship For Noncitizens In U.S. Forces

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 452 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 8


Saying "there is something terribly wrong with our immigration policies if it
takes death on the battlefield to earn citizenship," Cardinal Roger M. Mahony
has urged President Bush to award immediate citizenship to all immigrant troops
serving in the Persian Gulf.

The cardinal, head of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Los Angeles, wrote his
letter on Monday, just before celebrating a funeral Mass for Lance Cpl. Jose
Gutierrez, 27, a Guatemalan immigrant who had not yet become a citizen when he
was among the first troops to be killed in battle as forces moved into southern
Iraq on March 21. He was awarded citizenship posthumously.

Cardinal Mahony called the award a gesture and added, "Our present armed forces
are made up of many fine men and women who are not yet fully naturalized
citizens of our country, yet they heroically step forward to fight our nation's
battles around the world."

Ashley Snee, a White House spokeswoman, noted that an executive order issued in
July ended a requirement that immigrants in the armed forces live in the United
States for three years before seeking citizenship.

"The president issued the executive order," she said, "because he believes it is
a way to show our gratitude to the men and women who are bravely serving their
adopted country."

Cardinal Mahony would go further, conferring citizenship immediately to members
of the armed forces serving in the war on Iraq and issuing it to all others when
they are honorably discharged.

More than 36,000 service members are noncitizens, many holding the residency
papers known as green cards. These four marines killed in the war did not have
citizenship at their deaths:

*Corporal Gutierrez, who spent much of his life with a foster family in Lomita,
Calif., near Los Angeles;

*Cpl. Jose Garibay, 21, who was born in Guadalajara, Mexico;

*Pfc. Francisco Martinez-Flores, 20, who was born in Guadalajara but lived much
of his life in Duarte, Calif.

*Lance Cpl. Jesus Suarez del Solar, 20, who moved to California from Tijuana in
1997.

Tod M. Tamberg, a spokesman for the archdiocese, said Cardinal Mahony had been
reflecting on what he was going to say at the funeral when he decided to write
the letter, which he faxed just hours before delivering the liturgy.

The Los Angeles archdiocese is the largest in the United States with a Hispanic
majority. Hispanic troops, including those who have obtained legal residency and
those who are citizens, make up about 9 percent of the uniformed military.

"The very least we can do to assist our immigrant men and women serving the best
interests of this great nation is to grant them citizenship without bureaucratic
obstacles and delay," the cardinal wrote in his letter to Mr. Bush.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistani, 18, Wins Fight Against Order To Leave U.S.

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words


A Queens teenager facing deportation under new immigration laws has apparently
been granted an exemption, a local congressman announced yesterday.

The teenager, Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain, 18, had come to New York from Pakistan
as a 7-year-old and was raised in Queens by his uncle without ever having
obtained proper immigration status.

In February, after reporting to immigration officials in New York under special
registration laws created after Sept. 11, Mr. Hussain, 18, was told that he was
in the country illegally and that removal proceedings would be started against
him. He was scheduled to appear in front of an immigration judge tomorrow.

But yesterday morning, Representative Gary L. Ackerman, a Democrat from Queens,
said that Mr. Hussain would be staying in the United States.

At a news conference in front of Jamaica High School, where Mr. Hussain is a
student, Mr. Ackerman said that he had contacted Edward J. McElroy, interim
director of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement in New York. Mr.
Ackerman passed out copies of a letter Mr. McElroy sent to him on Monday saying
that after reviewing Mr. Hussain's case, he would exercise "prosecutorial
discretion in not removing him from the United States."

Telephone calls to Mr. McElroy's office yesterday were not returned.

"While this new policy makes a lot of sense for the security of our nation, it
made no sense when applied in this case," Mr. Ackerman said.

He said that he believed it was the first time such an exception had been
granted since the special registration began. The new registration laws,
established by the federal government to better identify potential terrorists,
require male noncitizens older than 16 who are from Arab and Muslim countries
that are considered high risk for terrorist activity to register with the
government.

Speaking in front of 100 students, including most of Mr. Hussain's teammates
from the varsity basketball squad, Mr. Ackerman said that after reading about
Mr. Hussain's situation he became determined to find a way to help him stay in
the United States.

Mr. Hussain's four siblings are Pakistani immigrants living legally in New York
City as naturalized citizens. He has been awaiting legal status pending an
immigration petition filed for him by one of his sisters in April 2001.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain came to New York when he was 7.
(Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 17, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Court Order, Zimbabwe Deports American Journalist

BYLINE:  Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: HARARE, Zimbabwe, May 16


An American journalist working in Zimbabwe for The Guardian, a British
newspaper, was deported today, despite a high court order preventing immigration
officials from carrying out the expulsion.

Immigration officials escorted the journalist, Andrew Meldrum, to an Air
Zimbabwe plane bound for London as his lawyer battled to serve a court order on
immigration officials to stop his deportation.

"He was escorted by two immigration officials to an Air Zimbabwe plane going to
London," said a Reuters reporter who was at the airport. "He got onto the
plane."

Mr. Meldrum was among a handful of foreign journalists working in Zimbabwe and
has been accused of driving a hate campaign against President Robert Mugabe.

His deportation came hours after Judge Charles Hungwe issued an order against
his deportation and ordered his release.

"Certainly I am convinced that there is lack of good faith being displayed by
the respondents," in this case the immigration authorities, Mr. Hungwe said.

In London, the editor of The Guardian denounced the expulsion.

"The Zimbabwean authorities have been persecuting Andrew for the last 12 months
and their clear determination to deport him can only be interpreted as a
concerted effort to stifle any free press within the country," said the editor,
Alan Rusbridger.

Beatrice Mtetwa, a lawyer who represented Mr. Meldrum, said she had handed over
the court order to immigration officials, but they had ignored it.

"They are clearly in contempt of court," she said as immigration officials
slammed doors and pushed her out of the departure lounge at the Harare
International Airport.

Mr. Meldrum's wife, Delores, said her husband told her by cellphone that
immigration officials had treated him roughly.

"He told me that the immigration officials had covered him with a jacket,
hooded-style, and drove him around a dirt road," she said. "When they got to the
airport he was locked up in an underground room."

Mr. Meldrum, who has worked in the southern African country for more than 20
years, had been fighting a deportation order that was issued last year after he
was acquitted of charges of publishing a false article.

He is one of several journalists taken to court since Mr. Mugabe's government
passed tough media laws last year. Critics say the laws, adopted after Mr.
Mugabe's controversial re-election last year, were designed to stifle press
freedom, but the government says they are meant to restore professionalism in
journalism. Most foreign journalists have been denied visas to enter the country
since the laws were enacted.

Last week, Zimbabwe's Supreme Court struck down provisions of the laws that made
it an offense to publish "falsehoods," after the government conceded that they
were unconstitutional.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
30 Linked To Terrorism Stayed in U.S., Report Says

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 753 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


Thirty foreign visitors linked to terrorism were allowed to enter the country
and to remain here even though their visas had been revoked by the State
Department, Congressional investigators reported today.

The General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, attributed the
mistakes to poor communication between the State Department, customs inspectors
and immigration officials at the Department of Homeland Security and the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. The investigators said bureau agents and immigration
officials had repeatedly failed to investigate or find the foreign visitors and
warned that they might still be in the country.

Officials at the F.B.I. disputed the findings, saying they had investigated all
visitors linked with terrorism to determine whether they posed a threat.
Officials from the Department of Homeland Security said they had investigated 10
of the 30 people in question and had not received information on the others.

But the investigators and members of Congress, who listened today to testimony
from the bureau and immigration officials at a House hearing on national
security, said they were somewhat doubtful about the accuracy of what they
heard. They said F.B.I. officials, who were repeatedly consulted by the
accounting office, had never claimed to have cleared the foreign visitors until
today.

The problems cited in the Congressional investigative report were similar to
those uncovered in the aftermath of the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. It was revealed
then that the C.I.A. had failed to notify other agencies in time that at least
two of the hijackers who had entered the country should have been placed on a
watch list.

Representative Christopher Shays, Republican of Connecticut, called the new
findings "alarming." Mr. Shays said he wanted to believe the sworn testimony
from the F.B.I. but said he was directing his staff to consult with senior
officials from the Justice Department to make sure.

"It leaves a bad taste in my mouth," Mr. Shays, the chairman of the national
security subcommittee, said of the bureau's testimony. "Something doesn't add
up. I hope there's not an element of spin here."

In the report, the G.A.O. examined 240 cases in which the State Department
revoked tourism or business visas because of terrorism concerns during the last
four months of 2002.

All but one of the 30 visitors in question had already entered the country by
the time the State Department identified them as potential security risks and
revoked their visas. Most of the visitors entered the country last year, but
others entered in previous years.

The Congressional investigators said they found repeated delays and mistakes in
information sharing when the State Department tried to pass on critical details
about the visitors who were deemed to be security risks.

The investigators said it took 12 days on average for a cable from the State
Department to reach immigration officials, who might have investigated the
whereabouts of the visitors in question.

In 43 of the 240 cases investigated, immigration officials said they were never
told to question the visitors. When they received the data, the immigration
officials entered incorrect information into their computers in 21 cases.

And the State Department's information was often so incomplete -- lacking dates
of birth or passport numbers -- that the F.B.I. rarely checked the names against
its terrorist watch list, the report said. The bureau said State Department
officials did not tell them that people with revoked visas could be "possible
terrorists."

Investigators said the systemic weaknesses uncovered during the investigation
"increase the possibility of a suspected terrorist entering or remaining in the
United States." Officials said that some of the visitors in question might have
already left the country but that they had been unable to find evidence of their
leaving.

At the hearing, members of Congress asked pointed questions about how the
communication problems were being resolved. They also expressed concern that
immigration officials said they could not deport those visitors whose visas were
revoked once they had arrived.

The officials said they were meeting to determine whether changes could be made
in existing regulations to ensure that such visitors could be deported if
necessary in the future.

A senior official from the State Department testified that the communication
problems identified had been resolved, allowing for immediate notification when
visas had been revoked.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 12, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmakers Attack Immigrants' Use of Antitorture Law to Block Deportation

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 689 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11


Congressional Republicans sharply criticized a four-year-old law today that bars
the deportation of immigrants, including those with criminal records, who are
likely to be tortured when they return to their countries.

Over the last four years, immigration judges blocked the deportation of 1,700
people who were likely to face torture if they returned to their countries, a
senior domestic security official said at a House immigration hearing. Of those,
611 had committed crimes in the United States, the official said.

Immigrants who pose risks to national security or society can be detained if
they cannot be deported because they face torture in their countries, officials
said. People who do not pose such risks are typically prosecuted for their
crimes and released after serving their sentences. They can be deported if
conditions in their countries improve or if officials receive diplomatic
assurances that they will not be tortured.

Several Republicans at the hearing today described such safeguards as inadequate
and proposed changes that would bar criminals and human rights abusers from
protection under the antitorture law. Human rights lawyers warned that such
changes would violate international law and suggest that the United States was
willing to condone torture in certain instances.

Representative John N. Hostettler, Republican of Indiana, described the
protection from deportation as a "disturbing and dangerous loophole" for foreign
criminals. Mr. Hostettler said he was particularly concerned about the treatment
of human rights violators who had committed crimes in their home countries and
were not typically prosecuted here.

"Known foreign torturers are living in our midst untouched," said Mr.
Hostettler, chairman of the House subcommittee on immigration. "Nationals from
Haiti, Somalia and other countries with former repressive regimes, identify past
persecutors and torturers from their country in their American neighborhoods,
shocked, and rightly so, that these bad actors live so freely in the U.S."

Mr. Hostettler cited two examples, referring to an immigrant who killed a
spectator at a Gambian soccer match and another who was implicated in a deadly
shootout in Uzbekistan that was linked to organized crime. He said neither
immigrant was deported because they faced the threat of torture in their home
countries.

Morton Sklar, executive director of the World Organization Against Torture, a
human rights group, said foreign warlords and torturers made up only a tiny
fraction of the criminals granted protection under the antitorture law. The rest
are immigrants accused of crimes like drug dealing, robbery or assault.

"There are no cases that I know of where anybody who represented a serious
threat to the United States has been released," Mr. Sklar said.

Other advocates for immigrants said the government should be detaining and
prosecuting human rights abusers rather than deporting them to countries where
they might be tortured.

"Victims of torture want justice," said Regina Germain, an immigration lawyer
who testified at the hearing. "They do not want to perpetuate the use of
torture."

C. Stewart Verdery Jr., an assistant secretary in the Department of Homeland
Security, testified that changing the law would place the United States in
violation of the international convention on torture and would do little to
speed the deportation of criminal immigrants.

Only 1 percent of the criminal immigrants who are released into the general
population after receiving final deportation orders had received protection
under the antitorture law, Mr. Verdery said.

The vast majority of criminal immigrants were released because their home
countries, places like Vietnam, Cuba and Iran, refused to accept them, he said.

But Mr. Verdery said he was uncomfortable with the idea of releasing criminal
immigrants who cannot be deported because of the threat of torture, even those
who do not pose security risks or immediate dangers to society.

"We're going to have people released that we'd rather have in custody," he
testified. "We want to minimize the risk that this treaty poses to public
safety."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaking yesterday to the House subcommittee on immigration
were, from left, Regina Germain, an immigration lawyer; Dan Stein of the
Federation for American Immigration Reform; Eli Rosenbaum of the Justice
Department; and C. Stewart Verdery of the Homeland Security Department.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant's Nightmare

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 90 words


To the Editor:

Countless hard-working immigrants have unfairly suffered under an arbitrary and
outdated immigration legal system, as Bob Herbert's Aug. 4 column illustrates.

Still, immigrants who enter the United States illegally are flouting our laws.

Improving the way government agencies handle immigration cases does not require
less stringent enforcement of immigration law. Laws on the books must be
enforced. Nothing less than a legal overhaul at the federal level is required.

GERARD MAX VAN AMERONGEN
Davidson, N.C., Aug. 4, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 9, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Case of Ex-Terror Suspect

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, Aug. 8


Federal officials have asked an immigration judge here to close the deportation
hearing of a Syrian, Nabil al-Marabh, once suspected of having ties to Osama bin
Laden.

Mr.

Marabh was never charged with a terror-related crime, but did serve an
eight-month sentence for entering the country illegally, his lawyer, Tamara
French, said.

A man convicted of plotting to blow up tourist sites in Jordan described Mr.
Marabh as an agent of Al Qaeda, but investigators were unable to substantiate
the accusation.

The Department of Homeland Security said it wanted the deportation hearing
closed to the public to avoid the release of classified information.

Mr. Marabh, who wants an open hearing, hopes to stay in the United States,
saying he fears torture in Syria, Ms. French said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

8 Members Of Congress Urge Release Of Immigrant

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 22


Members of the Congressional Human Rights Caucus are calling for the release of
an illegal African immigrant from a Pennsylvania jail because of "reprehensible
mistreatment" by federal immigration officials.

The immigrant, Malik Jarno, now 18, arrived alone from Guinea in January 2001 at
Dulles International Airport in Herndon, Va., and his case has become a symbol
of the difficulties encountered by thousands of nonadult immigrants who arrive
unaccompanied each year and are detained.

Mr. Jarno, who his lawyers say is mentally retarded, has spent all but 4 of the
last 32 months in adult jails, despite a birth certificate that says he was born
on Jan. 7, 1985. He says he fled his country seeking sanctuary from political
persecution that had left his family dead.

Members of the human rights caucus, in a letter that will be sent on Monday to
Asa Hutchinson, the under secretary for border and transportation security at
the Department of Homeland Security, said, "Malik's treatment by immigration
officials represents a miscarriage of justice."

A copy of the letter was given to The New York Times by an official from the
office of Representative Tom Lantos, the California Democrat who is the caucus
chairman. The letter is signed by several other caucus members, including
Representatives Christopher H. Smith, Republican of New Jersey, and Donald M.
Payne of New Jersey, Dennis J. Kucinich of Ohio, John Conyers Jr. of Michigan,
Betty McCollum of Minnesota and Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, all Democrats.

"Based on the compelling inequities of Malik's plight, we strongly urge you to
redress the injustices wrought upon him immediately," the letter says. "We
strongly urge you to either release him from custody under deferred action or to
grant him humanitarian parole to the care of the International Friendship House,
a reputable and responsible nonprofit home for refugees in York, Pa., that is
willing and able to take him."

The home has worked with immigration officials in the past to provide housing
and services to young immigrants with special needs while their cases were
pending.

Last week, Representative Chaka Fattah, Democrat of Pennsylvania, wrote a
similar letter.

Authority for immigrant children who enter the country without any adult
relative or guardian was transferred to the Department of Health and Human
Services from the Immigration and Naturalization Service under the domestic
security bill that Congress approved last year. For decades, the immigration
service had been responsible for unaccompanied immigrant children.

About 500 unaccompanied minors are being held while the government seeks to
adjudicate their asylum cases in immigration courts.

In June, the human rights group Amnesty International, which advocates for less
restrictive placements or foster homes for children who are awaiting
determination of their legal status, foundthat foreign children fleeing violence
and persecution in their home countries were often improperly detained for
months in bleak detention centers in the United States without access to lawyers
or psychological services.

The group's report, which surveyed 33 detention centers around the country,
found that illegal immigrant children who arrive in this country without
caretakers are often strip-searched, shackled and housed with juveniles who have
been convicted of crimes.

Because Mr. Jarno tried to enter with a false passport, he was detained in adult
jails for nearly nine months before an immigration judge conducted a hearing at
which the I.N.S. said he should be deported.

The agency had said Mr. Jarno, who speaks French and Puhlar, a West African
language, was not a minor, contrary to his birth certificate. In April 2002, the
agency learned from the Guinean Embassy here that the certificate was authentic
and moved him to a juvenile shelter in Leesport, Pa., from the Rappahannock
Regional Jail in Stafford, Va.

Four months later, however, after conducting an investigation in Guinea,
immigration officials decided that Mr. Jarno was an adult and moved him to an
adult jail in York, where he remains pending his asylum request.

Immigration officials said they had used dental records and wrist X-rays to
determine that Mr. Jarno was an adult in 2002.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Malik Jarno, an illegal African immigrant, is being held in
adult jails although he says he was a minor when he entered the United States.
(Photo by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 13, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

14 Migrant Workers Drown as Van Plunges Into Maine Waterway on Way to a Job

BYLINE:  By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 533 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Sept. 12


They were guest workers, up from Honduras and Guatemala to spend six months or
so clearing brush in the thick, wild forests of deepest northern Maine.

Each morning they would leave the camp or trailer park where they stayed and
pile into a van to drive to their forest work site, plowing across dirt roads
and rutted logging tracks, passing whirling water and mountain trails.

But this morning, about 7:45, as they rode across a one-lane wooden John's
Bridge, with no railing over the water of the Allagash Wilderness Waterway,
their van swerved and tumbled into the water upside down.

Fourteen of the 15 workers drowned, making the traffic accident the worst in
Maine's history, said Stephen McCausland, a spokesman for the Maine Public
Safety Department. The survivor pulled himself to safety by crawling out the
van's back window, which apparently shattered. As he did, the van sank in 10 to
15 feet of water, Mr. McCausland said.

The accident occurred on a private logging road in an area so remote it was
about 60 miles from the nearest paved state road. The site is between Churchill
Eagle Lakes. State police rescue crews were forced to take helicopters and float
planes, some provided by the National Guard, to reach the waterway, part of a
92-mile stretch of river that attracts adventurous canoers and hikers.

"There are no straight roads to that area," said Adam Fisher, assistant to the
commissioner of the Maine Department of Labor, which oversees the guest worker
program.

Mr. McCausland said the cause of the accident was still being investigated and
the white van, with all the bodies still in it, had been taken out of the water
by heavy equipment and hauled to a campsite about five miles away. It was
scheduled to be transported, victims and all, to a state police crime laboratory
in Augusta.

Lt. Peter Stewart of the state police said "speed was definitely a factor." The
survivor, whose name was not released, told investigators that the van was going
70 miles an hour, said Mark Latti, a spokesman for the Maine Warden Service,
adding that there are no posted speed limits on private roads.

A high-wind advisory was in effect at the time, telling people to drive with
caution because of wind gusts approaching 45 miles an hour.

Investigators were interviewing the survivor, who is from Guatemala, as were
four of the victims. The others were from Honduras.

It was not clear who was driving the van. One official said Maine required
vehicles containing more than 14 people to have a bus license. It appeared the
van was not licensed as a bus, the officials said.

Officials at the scene of the crash said that the men were working for Evergreen
Forestry, based in Sandpoint, Idaho, a subcontractor for the Seven Islands Land
Company, which owns more than 900,000 acres in Maine. The general manager of
Evergreen, Peter Smith, said the company was still trying to determine whether
the van and the workers were connected to Evergreen.

John Cashwell, the president of Seven Islands, said his company was "saddened by
this tragic accident and will cooperate in all efforts to determine what caused
the accident." Mr. Cashwell said Seven Islands did not own or operate the van
involved.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fourteen of 15 migrant workers drowned yesterday when the van
taking them to work veered off a bridge and fell into the Allagash Wilderness
Waterway. The van was taken to a state police crime laboratory. (Associated
Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Colombians Extradited In Kidnappings

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 28


Colombia has extradited two men suspected of taking part in a violent kidnapping
ring that focused on American and other foreign workers in Ecuador and demanded
huge ransoms from their multinational employers, officials said today.

The extradition of the two suspects, who are believed to be members of a defunct
guerrilla group, is the first time that Colombia has sent its citizens to the
United States for prosecution on non-drug-related offenses, and it signals
deepening cooperation between the countries on terrorism, the officials said.

For American investigators, the arrival in Miami of the suspects, Juan Luis
Bravo and Henrri Jamioy Quistial, on Sunday marked a victory in the effort to
prosecute the killers of Ronald Sander, an oil rig supervisor for Helmerich &
Payne Inc., which is based in Tulsa, Okla.

Mr. Sander, 54, was kidnapped by gunmen in an Ecuadorean oil field along with
four other Americans, an Argentine, a Chilean, a New Zealander and two
Frenchmen. The abductors demanded $80 million for the hostages' release. They
executed Mr. Sander in January of last year after the corporations refused to
pay more than $1 million.

The Ecuadorean police discovered Mr. Sander's body wrapped in a sheet that bore
the spray-painted message: "I am a gringo. For nonpayment of ransom." The other
hostages were freed in exchange for $13 million more than four months after they
were seized.

Roscoe Howard, the United States attorney for the District of Columbia,
announced the unsealing today of a 10-count indictment that accuses eight
Colombians of numerous cases of kidnapping for ransom between 1997 and 2001 and
the "brutal murder" of Mr. Sander.

"Transgressions committed against U.S. nationals will not go unpunished," Mr.
Howard said.

Three more of the eight suspects are in custody in Colombia and are being
readied for extradition, Mr. Howard said. Colombian officials said they expected
the three to be in the United States within a month. Two others are fugitives,
and officials refused to comment on the status or whereabouts of the eighth
person named in the indictment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 19, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

IN BUSINESS;
Claims of Unpaid Wages Prompt Hispanic Coalition Protest

BYLINE:  By Elsa Brenner

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 309 words


To protest against a Yonkers construction company that is accused of failing to
pay eight immigrant workers proper wages, the Westchester Hispanic Coalition
plans to picket the company's offices today to refocus attention on a continuing
lawsuit, said Graciela Heymann, director of the coalition. "This case is just
one of many like it," Ms.

Heymann said.

According to a federal lawsuit filed on May 6, in the United States District
Court in White Plains, three Hispanic workers received no compensation for two
weeks' work at Wampus Elementary School in Armonk in the spring of 2001, and
five Hispanic workers were paid less than half the rate applicable under New
York State law for school projects. Those five workers were also due overtime
compensation from the company, Glenman Construction, which they also did not
receive, said Theresa Murphy, the lawyer from Seham, Seham, Meltz & Petersen in
White Plains representing the plaintiffs.

The lawsuit seeks $160,000, which represents wages and overtime that the workers
say they are due from the construction company, and some other damages.

"Immigrant workers are often vulnerable to unscrupulous employment practices,"
Ms. Murphy said, "because their education and skill levels are sometimes low,
there are language barriers, and they often do not understand the law."

In addition to Glenman Construction, which has headquarters in Ireland,
defendants named in the suit include MJAB Construction of New Rochelle, a
contractor; Michael Scoca, a superintendent of projects for MJAB and Glenman,
according to the suit; and Linda Williams, president of MJAB. Michael J.
Barnaby, the lawyer for Glenman, said Thursday that the nonpayment allegations
concerned a contractor other than Glenman.

The state Department of Labor is also investigating the matter, a department
spokesman said.   Elsa Brenner

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Don't Make Refugees the Victims of Visa Rules

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 163 words


To the Editor:

The real victims of the federal government's new visa policies (news article,
Sept. 10) are refugees.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the government has revised its visa procedures time
and time again, sometimes adding new nationalities to the list required to go
through enhanced security checks.

It's one thing for 400 students to be stranded in Indonesia waiting for their
visas; it's quite another for an equal amount of persecuted Iranian Christians,
Jews, Bahais and others to be stranded in Austria, often without enough money to
pay for food or shelter, for up to a year waiting for their visas to resettle in
the United States. Or for thousands of refugees in Africa who fled war, torture
or rape and who have already convinced the I.N.S. that they have well-founded
fears of persecution to wait for their visas with no end in sight.

LEONARD GLICKMAN
New York, Sept. 10, 2002

The writer is president and chief executive, HIAS (Hebrew Immigrant Aid
Society).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 27, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: LEGISLATION;
Shift of Care For Immigrant Children Alone

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 458 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26


Tucked into the Homeland Security Department bill that President Bush signed
into law on Monday is a measure transferring authority for immigrant children
who enter the country without any adult relative or guardian to the Department
of Health and Human Services. They had been the responsibility of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Legal groups and immigration advocates have welcomed the shift, saying it will
improve services for the children, including their access to the nation's foster
care system.

Thousands of unaccompanied children are detained each year by the immigration
agency. Some have fled human rights abuses, including forced recruitment as
soldiers, child labor and prostitution. Others are brought to the United States
by child traffickers.

Under the new legislation, care and detention of these children will be handled
by the Office of Refugee Resettlement in the Department of Health and Human
Services. The children's asylum cases will remain in immigration courts.

While the immigration service said it worked with nonprofit organizations and
public agencies to place children in the least restrictive settings possible,
many were sent to jails for months at a time without access to translators,
education or medical care.

Amnesty International, the American Civil Liberties Union and the American Bar
Association, among other groups, pushed Congress to change the handling of
unaccompanied immigrant juveniles.

"Children who arrive at our borders alone and unprotected will no longer have
their prosecutor serve as their caretaker," said Alfred P. Carlton Jr., the
president of the bar association.

The legislation calls for a government study to determine the best way to ensure
that qualified and independent lawyers are appointed for the children.

More than 50 percent of unaccompanied juveniles appear in court without a lawyer
or guardian, the bar association said. That often means added time in detention,
because immigration judges are reluctant to order removal of children who do not
have counsel.

"This is an important first step in providing these children with legal
representation," Mr. Carlton said. "We urge Congress to establish a pro bono
infrastructure next year to further this effort."

Immigration laws do not allow for the appointment of counsel for immigrants at
the government's expense.

As the number of detained children has steadily increased, to about 5,000 a year
from about 2,500 in 1997, pilot programs have begun in some states to ensure
that all children in the immigration agency's custody get lawyers.

Bills were introduced in both houses of Congress this year calling for
unaccompanied illegal immigrant children to receive appropriate treatment and a
lawyer while in custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legal Aid Programs Challenge Restrictions That Hinder Class-Action Suits

BYLINE:  By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words


A lawsuit being heard in federal court in Brooklyn seeks to overturn federal
rules that block legal aid programs that accept taxpayer money from filing
class-action suits, lobbying or representing immigrants without green cards.

The rules, adopted in the mid-1990's, forbid such activity even if that work is
financed by money the program raises privately. An organization can do the
restricted legal work only if it sets up a separate corporation with separate
offices, equipment and staff, which the groups say is impractically expensive.

The legal services groups, which include South Brooklyn Legal Services and Legal
Services for New York City, say that the restrictions violate their First
Amendment right of free speech by allowing the government to dictate how they
spend their own money.

Oral arguments in the case were heard yesterday by Judge Frederic Block of
United States District Court in Brooklyn. A decision is not expected for at
least several weeks.

The suit is an outgrowth of a partly successful one filed by some of the same
plaintiffs in 1999. In that case, the United States Supreme Court struck down a
restriction that was part of a 1996 regulation that barred lawyers in federally
financed legal-aid agencies from challenging welfare laws.

The defendants in the present suit, which include the Legal Services
Corporation, the federal entity that distributes federal money to private legal
aid groups, say that the restrictions being challenged were already challenged
unsuccessfully in the earlier suit.

"My client is committed to enforcing the congressional mandate faithfully, and
to defending those restrictions in court -- if necessary, to the Supreme Court
again," said Stephen L. Ascher, a private lawyer retained by the Legal Services
Corporation.

As an example of the effect of the restrictions, the lawyer arguing for the
plaintiffs, Burt Neuborne , said that South Brooklyn Legal Services would have
to spend 8 percent of its $4.3 million budget and serve 400 fewer clients per
year if it set up a separate office just to handle the restricted work.

South Brooklyn, whichgets two-thirds of its money from private sources and often
represents the poor in cases against landlords, has decided to stop filing
class-action suits rather than incur the expense and administrative headaches of
a separate office, Mr. Neuborne said.

A Manhattan legal services group, Mobilization For Youth, has decided to refuse
federal money to avoid the restrictions, Mr. Neuborne said.

"What the government is essentially doing is saying that the price of accepting
their money is that we have to take our private money and move it to a different
place," said Mr. Neuborne, the legal director of the Brennan Center for Justice
at New York University Law School.

If the restrictions are allowed to stand, Mr. Neuborne said, the government
could, for example, eventually require an art museum that gets even $1 of
federal money to stage a show of controversial art in a separate building.

The groups also argue that the restrictions are greater than those on some
religious organizations, which are now able to receive federal money for charity
efforts, under a recent presidential order.

A brief filed by the plaintiffs notes that President Bush's order from last
December covering "faith-based initiatives" requires religious groups to keep
track of their federal money separately but does not generally order them to
carry out federally funded activities in separate physical locations.

The effect of this, Mr. Neuborne said, is that, notwithstanding the principle of
separation of church and state, the government is discriminating against secular
groups in favor of religious one.

"Just let us do what the faith-based agencies do," Mr. Neuborne said, "and we
can live with that."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Can Hold Immigrants Set To Be Deported

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29


The government can imprison immigrants it is seeking to deport without first
giving them a chance to show that they present neither a flight risk nor a
danger to the community, a divided Supreme Court ruled today.

The 5-to-4 decision upheld the mandatory-detention provisions of a 1996
immigration law as applied to a substantial category of aliens who are lawful
permanent residents of the United States and who have been convicted of any of a
number of drug crimes and other "aggravated" offenses.  Excerpts, Page A20.

The provision does not deal with terrorism, and the decision today has no direct
application to the legal issues involving the detention and treatment of
suspects under the USA Patriot Act that Congress passed after the terrorist
attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. But the decision was nonetheless notable for the
degree of deference the majority showed to the judgments Congress made in 1996
about the desirability of detaining immigrants before deporting them.

Tens of thousands of these so-called "criminal aliens" have been imprisoned
before deportation under the statute, which replaced a law giving the attorney
general the discretion to release individuals on bond while their deportation
cases went forward as long as they presented neither flight nor security risk.

Four federal appeals courts, including the San Francisco-based United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in this case, have declared the
mandatory-detention provision unconstitutional at least as applied to lawful
permanent residents, who have more rights than aliens who have not been lawfully
admitted into the country.

In addition to overturning the Ninth Circuit today, the court next week will
almost certainly vacate the other decisions, from the 3rd Circuit in
Philadelphia, the 4th Circuit in Richmond, Va., and the 10th Circuit in Denver.

The appeals courts had relied in part on a Supreme Court decision of two years
ago, Zadvydas v. Davis, in which the court interpreted another provision of the
immigration law and ruled that the government could not indefinitely detain a
deportable alien whose country of origin refused to take him back.

In his opinion for the court today, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist -- who
had dissented from the earlier decision -- said the two cases were substantially
different, the first dealing with an open-ended, perhaps lifetime detention,
while the case today concerned detentions that last only weeks or months, until
the conclusion of deportation proceedings.

The result was to turn the Zadvydas decision into a narrower ruling in
retrospect than it appeared to be to immigrants'-rights advocates when it was
issued in June 2001; it had appeared then to establish a significant floor of
constitutional protection even for aliens who had been adjudged deportable.

The immigrant in the case today, a Korean-born Californian named Hyung Joon Kim,
is still contesting his deportability and is not yet subject to a final order of
removal.

Justice Sandra Day O'Connor had joined the majority in the Zadvydas decision,
which was also decided by a 5-to-4 vote. Her vote with Chief Justice Rehnquist
today determined the different outcome.

The only federal appeals court to have upheld the mandatory-detention provision
at issue today was the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,
in Chicago, which, unlike the other appeals courts, issued its ruling before the
Supreme Court decided the Zadvydas case.

Mr. Kim came to the United States from Korea with his family at the age of 6 and
became a permanent resident two years later. After two criminal convictions in
California as a teenager, one for burglary and one for theft, he was placed in
deportation proceedings and imprisoned under the new law. After three months in
detention, he filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus arguing that he was
constitutionally eligible for release while challenging his deportation.

His case raised two questions: whether habeas corpus review was available
despite language in the law suggesting that it was not, and whether the
mandatory-detention provision violated the constitutional guarantee of due
process.

Six justices agreed today that habeas corpus was available, thus giving the
court jurisdiction over the case and reiterating the need for Congress to be
extremely clear if it intended to strip the courts of jurisdiction over a
category of cases. Reaching the merits of the case, five then found no
constitutional requirement for a hearing at which a detained immigrant could
demonstrate eligibility for release on bond.

The two questions were answered by separate coalitions of justices. Those who
agreed that the court had jurisdiction were, in addition to Chief Justice
Rehnquist, Justice Anthony M. Kennedy and the four who dissented on the
detention issue: Justices David H. Souter, John Paul Stevens, Ruth Bader
Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer.

Those who agreed with the chief justice on the constitutionality of mandatory
detention were Justices Kennedy, O'Connor, Antonin Scalia, and Clarence Thomas.

Chief Justice Rehnquist said that "against a backdrop of wholesale failure" by
immigration authorities under the old law to deal with rising rates of crime by
aliens, Congress had adequately demonstrated a need to imprison aliens awaiting
deportation for past crimes to keep them from committing new crimes.

While Congress might have permitted "individualized bail determinations," he
said, "when the government deals with deportable aliens, the Due Process Clause
does not require it to employ the least burdensome means to accomplish its
goal."

After the federal district court in San Francisco ruled in favor of Mr. Kim in
1999, the Immigration and Naturalization Service granted him a hearing, found
him eligible for release and released him on $5,000 bond. He has been free since
then, working and attending college. His lawyer, Judy Rabinovitz of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said Mr. Kim would now challenge his eligibility for
deportation on the ground that the property crimes for which he was convicted
were not the "aggravated" crimes of "moral turpitude" to which the law refers.

In a dissenting opinion, Justice Souter said the decision was "at odds with the
settled standard of liberty," under which the government has to justify the
detention of individuals on a case-by-case basis, not of entire classes of
people. "Due process calls for an individual determination before someone is
locked away," Justice Souter said. He read his dissent from the bench this
morning, a step he has taken only rarely to emphasize a particularly deep
disagreement. Justices Stevens and Ginsburg signed his opinion.

Justice Breyer, who wrote the majority opinion in the Zadvydas case, dissented
separately on narrower grounds. He said the 1996 law, properly interpreted, made
bail available to an alien who raised a substantial legal challenge to
deportability.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Bill For Noncitizen Soldiers

BYLINE:  By Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 86 words


The House Judiciary Committee approved a measure intended to speed the
naturalization process for noncitizens in the military.

The bill, which will be presented to the House in coming weeks, would allow
immigrant soldiers to apply for citizenship after serving one year in the armed
forces. The current waiting period is three years. Supporters said the
legislation would reward immigrant soldiers. Others warned that the bill would
not prevent the deportation of the soldiers' parents.   Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 14, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tests Found Fake Papers Helped Agents Enter Country

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 498 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 13


Undercover agents testing security measures at the country's airports and border
crossings were repeatedly allowed to enter the country after showing customs
inspectors counterfeit driver's licenses and birth certificates, Congressional
officials said today.

Some of the agents, who were posing as American citizens returning to the United
States from the Caribbean, Canada and Mexico, were allowed to enter without
showing any documentation, according to a report by the General Accounting
Office, the investigative arm of Congress.

American citizens traveling from countries in the Western Hemisphere are not
required to show a passport when they return to the United States. They must
prove that they are citizens, and inspectors typically accept birth
certificates, driver's licenses or baptismal records. But citizens are not
required to provide documents and they can also offer oral evidence like their
home addresses and places of birth.

At a House immigration subcommittee hearing today, a senior Congressional
investigator warned that terrorists and others could easily take advantage of
the law by providing false documents or simply lying to inspectors about their
identity.

"They were always successful at entering the country with their counterfeit
documents," Robert J. Cramer, managing director of the G.A.O.'s special
investigations office, said of the undercover agents.

"There's no question that additional training for inspectors at the border would
be helpful," he said.

Officials at the hearing pointed to the case of John Muhammad, the man accused
in the Washington-area sniper killings. They said Mr. Muhammad sold fake
American driver's licenses and birth certificates to more than 20 people in the
island nation of Antigua so they could pretend to be American citizens and enter
the United States illegally.

The officials also provided additional information about Lee Malvo, who is
charged with participating in the sniper attacks with Mr. Muhammad. Mr. Malvo
apparently lived alone in a rented house in Antigua without electricity or other
utilities after his mother went to the United States using fake documents
provided by Mr. Muhammad.

Officials say Mr. Muhammad primarily helped Jamaicans living in Antigua to enter
the United States illegally. But there is also some evidence that he helped at
least one person from the Middle East to enter the country with fake documents.
Officials in Antigua said they had turned that information over to the F.B.I.

"We were embarrassed by this," said John E. Fuller, who heads the task force in
Antigua that is investigating Mr. Muhammad's activities.

"This man used us, our system and its weaknesses and he used yours," Mr. Fuller
said at the Congressional hearing today.

Some Congressional officials suggested that the law should be changed to require
American citizens to provide passports -- as opposed to driver's licenses or
other documents -- upon their return to the United States from Latin America and
Canada.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 2, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal, Not Entitled

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 118 words


To the Editor:

Re "Immigrants Feel the Pinch of Post-9/11 Laws" (news article, June 25):

While I can sympathize with these immigrants, it does not negate the fact that
many of them are not in this country legally.

Why should they get things like driver's licenses (a privilege, not a right) or
bank accounts or any of the other myriad services that those who followed the
rules and came to the country legally are entitled to?

I am pro-immigration as long as it is done legally. I would prosecute any of
these lawbreakers, whether they are from Honduras or Lebanon.

Come to America if you will, but please come through the front door. I will
welcome you with open arms.

MERRY DOBBINS
Dallas, Ga., June 25, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2003 TheNew York Times Company


                              124 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 21, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report on U.S. Antiterrorism Law Alleges Violations of Civil Rights

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20


A report by internal investigators at the Justice Department has identified
dozens of recent cases in which department employees have been accused of
serious civil rights and civil liberties violations involving enforcement of the
sweeping federal antiterrorism law known as the USA Patriot Act.

The inspector general's report, which was presented to Congress last week and is
awaiting public release, is likely to raise new concern among lawmakers about
whether the Justice Department can police itself when its employees are accused
of violating the rights of Muslim and Arab immigrants and others swept up in
terrorism investigations under the 2001 law.

The report said that in the six-month period that ended on June 15, the
inspector general's office had received 34 complaints of civil rights and civil
liberties violations by department employees that it considered credible,
including accusations that Muslim and Arab immigrants in federal detention
centers had been beaten.

The accused workers are employed in several of the agencies that make up the
Justice Department, with most of them assigned to the Bureau of Prisons, which
oversees federal penitentiaries and detention centers.

The report said that credible accusations were also made against employees of
the F.B.I., the Drug Enforcement Administration and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service; most of the immigration agency was consolidated earlier
this year into the Department of Homeland Security.

A spokeswoman for the Justice Department, Barbara Comstock, said tonight that
the department "takes its obligations very seriously to protect civil rights and
civil liberties, and the small number of credible allegations will be thoroughly
investigated."

Ms. Comstock noted that the department was continuing to review accusations made
last month in a separate report by the inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, that
found broader problems in the department's treatment of hundreds of illegal
immigrants rounded up after the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

While most of the accusations in the report are still under investigation, the
report said a handful had been substantiated, including those against a federal
prison doctor who was reprimanded after reportedly telling an inmate during a
physical examination that "if I was in charge, I would execute every one of you"
because of "the crimes you all did."

The report did not otherwise identify the doctor or name the federal detention
center where he worked. The doctor, it said, had "allegedly treated other
inmates in a cruel and unprofessional manner."

The report said that the inspector general's office was continuing to
investigate a separate case in which about 20 inmates at a federal detention
center, which was not identified, had recently accused a corrections officer of
abusive behavior, including ordering a Muslim inmate to remove his shirt "so the
officer could use it to shine his shoes."

In that case, the report said, the inspector general's office was able to obtain
a statement from the officer admitting that he had verbally abused the Muslim
inmate and that he had been "less that completely candid" with internal
investigators from the Bureau of Prisons. The inspector general's office said it
had also obtained a sworn statement from another prison worker confirming the
inmates' accusations.

The report did not directly criticize the Bureau of Prisons for its handling of
an earlier internal investigation of the officer, but the report noted that the
earlier inquiry had been closed -- and the accused officer initially cleared --
without anyone interviewing the inmates or the officer.

The report is the second in recent weeks from the inspector general to focus on
the way the Justice Department is carrying out the broad new surveillance and
detention powers it gained under the Patriot Act, which was passed by Congress a
month after the 9/11 attacks.

In the first report, which was made public on June 2, Mr. Fine, whose job is to
act as the department's internal watchdog, found that hundreds of illegal
immigrants had been mistreated after they were detained following the attacks.

That report found that many inmates languished in unduly harsh conditions for
months, and that the department had made little effort to distinguish legitimate
terrorist suspects from others picked up in roundups of illegal immigrants.

The first report brought widespread, bipartisan criticism of the Justice
Department, which defended its conduct at the time, saying that it "made no
apologies for finding every legal way possible to protect the American public
from further attacks."

Ms. Comstock, the spokeswoman, said tonight that the department had been
sensitive to concerns about civil rights and civil liberties after the 9/11
attacks, and that the department had been aggressive in investigating more that
500 cases of complaints of ethnic "hate crimes" linked to backlash from the
attacks.

"We've had 13 federal prosecutions of 18 defendants to date, with a 100 percent
conviction rate," she said. "We have a very aggressive effort against post-9/11
discrimination."

A copy of the report, which was dated July 17 and provided to the House and
Senate Judiciary Committees, was made available to The New York Times by the
office of Representative John Conyers Jr. of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on
the House panel.

"This report shows that we have only begun to scratch the surface with respect
to the Justice Department's disregard of constitutional rights and civil
liberties," Mr. Conyers said in a statement. "I commend the inspector general
for having the courage and independence to highlight the degree to which the
administration's war on terror has misfired and harmed innocent victims with no
ties to terror whatsoever.'

The report is Mr. Fine's evaluation of his efforts to enforce provisions of the
Patriot Act that require his office to investigate complaints of abuses of civil
rights and civil liberties by Justice Department employees. The provision was
inserted into the law by members of Congress who said they feared that the
Patriot Act might lead to widespread law enforcement abuses.

The report draws no broad conclusions about the extent of abuses by Justice
Department employees, although it suggests that the relatively small staff of
the inspector general's office has been overwhelmed by accusations of abuse,
many filed by Muslim or Arab inmates in federal detention centers.

The inspector general said that from Dec. 16 through June 15, his office
received 1,073 complaints "suggesting a Patriot Act-related" abuse of civil
rights or civil liberties.

The report suggested that hundreds of the accusations were easily dismissed as
not credible or impossible to prove. But of the remainder, 272 were determined
to fall within the inspector general's jurisdiction, with 34 raising "credible
Patriot Act violations on their face."

In those 34 cases, it said, the accusations "ranged in seriousness from alleged
beatings of immigration detainees to B.O.P. correctional officers allegedly
verbally abusing inmates."

The report said that two of the cases were referred to internal investigators at
the Federal Bureau of Investigation because they involved bureau employees. In
one case, the report said, the bureau investigated -- and determined to be
unsubstantiated -- a complaint that an F.B.I. agent had "displayed aggressive,
hostile and demeaning behavior while administering a pre-employment polygraph
examination."

The report said that the second case involved accusations from a naturalized
citizen of Lebanese descent that the F.B.I. had invaded his home based on false
information and wrongly accused him of possessing an AK-47 rifle. That case, it
said, is still under investigation by the bureau.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn A. Fine, the Justice Department's inspector general.
(Reuters)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 28, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Charges 3 With Forcing Women to Work in Strip Clubs

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 27


Three Brooklyn residents were arrested today after a federal indictment accused
them of bringing at least a dozen Russian women into the country and forcing
them to dance in New Jersey strip clubs.

The authorities said they arrested the three -- Lev Trakhtenberg, his wife,
Viktoriya I'Lina, and Sergey Malchikov -- in Brooklyn. According to the
indictment, their company, DGL Enterprises, at 7311 20th Avenue, billed itself
as a travel, education and entertainment business with offices in Moscow, Russia
and Brooklyn and Mr. Trakhtenberg as president.

Though the women had been told they would be working in strip clubs, the federal
authorities said they were misled about the nudity and the explicit nature of
the dancing.

Mr. Trakhtenberg and Ms. I'Lina placed the women in sparsely furnished
apartments and took away their passports and plane tickets, the indictment said.
Once the women disclosed how to contact relatives in an emergency, the
defendants threatened the families and the women to get their cooperation.

The 12-count federal indictment charged Mr. Trakhtenberg, Ms. I'Lina and Mr.
Malchikov with conspiracy, forced labor and conspiracy to commit extortion. A
bail hearing is scheduled for Friday for Mr. Trakhtenberg and Ms. I'Lina. If
convicted, the three face up to 20 years in prison and a $250,000 fine each.

The authorities said that since November 1999, the defendants violated immigrant
laws and lied on visa applications for the women, saying they were to perform
with the Gurchenko Show Group and the Boyanova Show Group and serve as visiting
specialists for the Department of Performing Arts at the University of Illinois.
The United States attorney, Christopher J. Christie, said none of that was true.

The women, identified in the indictment only by their initials, ended up
performing lap dances in several New Jersey clubs, including Frank's Chicken
House in Manville, N.J., an official said. They were told to pay $1,200 a week,
regardless of their earnings, the indictment said.

Although the defendants had bragged about having ties to Russian mobsters, Mr.
Christie said, no link was confirmed. He said the club owners did not appear to
know about the women's situation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 28, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Win for Open Trials

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 467 words


Declaring that "democracies die behind closed doors," a federal appeals court in
Cincinnati ruled on Monday that the government cannot hold secret deportation
hearings for people suspected of ties to terrorism. The decision is the most
powerful rebuke yet to the Bush administration's policy of flouting the Bill of
Rights in the name of national security.

The ruling, from a unanimous three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, came in the case of Rabih Haddad. Mr. Haddad, a
native of Lebanon who overstayed his visa, runs a charity that the government
has accused of supporting terrorism. Mr. Haddad's family, the press, members of
the public and Representative John Conyers of Michigan were all barred from
attending his deportation hearings.

There is a long tradition in the United States, backed up by well-established
First Amendment law, of trials taking place in the open. Public access to
deportation hearings serves the same important function that it does for civil
and criminal trials: It allows the public to monitor the proceedings and ensure
that they are conducted properly. Advocates for immigrants can attend to ensure
that the accused are not wrongfully deported. Those worried about the threat
from abroad can see that no one remains here who should not.

It is true that the president and Congress have considerable discretion in
making decisions about which immigrants to admit and exclude, and that the
courts will rarely second-guess their conclusions. But as the appeals court
noted, that sweeping power does not extend to the process by which these
decisions are made. The trials and hearings that an immigrant receives, whatever
the outcome, must meet constitutional standards of freedom of speech and due
process.

There may be instances in which national security requires that deportation
hearings be conducted in secret, but as the appeals court held, these
determinations must be made on a case-by-case basis. If the government wants to
keep Mr. Haddad's proceedings closed, it needs to make a specific showing that
information would be disclosed during the hearing that could put the country in
danger. That would be hard in Mr. Haddad's case, since all the government needs
to prove to deport him is that he has overstayed his visa.

This week's ruling follows a decision by a federal district court judge in
Washington ordering the government to release the names of the post-Sept.-11
detainees it has been holding in secret, and a request from the House Judiciary
Committee to the Justice Department for information about its use of new
antiterrorism powers in the U.S.A. Patriot Act. The courts and Congress are
sending a clear message to the Bush administration that its antiterror campaign
risks trampling on the Constitution.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 1, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
Some Dominicans Balk At a Diplomatic Import

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 475 words


To an outsider, the controversy might seem puzzling: the Dominican Republic's
new consul general in New York is from . . . the Dominican Republic. But the
recent appointment of Francisco Antonio Pena Guaba, who had served as the
Dominican secretary of youth and had before never lived in New York, has stirred
discontent among relentlessly political Dominican immigrants.

It had become custom in recent years to name a resident of the New York region
to the post. The official oversees consular services for the 800,000 Dominicans
in New York and New Jersey, serving as their official link with the island. In
previous years, nominees came from the local chapters of Dominican political
parties, whose donations make New York a required stop in presidential
campaigns.

"People feel someone who has gone through the immigrant experience has a much
better understanding of the day-to-day problems and concerns that the Dominican
immigrant population has," said Anthony Stevens-Acevedo, a high school teacher
in Washington Heights active in community causes.

The phenomenon has resulted in some strange career paths: one recent consul
general had been a restaurant worker, another a building superintendent. Few, if
any, had college degrees. By contrast, consuls general who represent Mexico,
Colombia and Ecuador never come from the New York area and often have impressive
resumes. (Mexico's consul general, Salvador Beltran del Rio, was a member of the
Mexican Congress and studied law at Harvard.)

But the proportion of Dominicans living in the United States rather than in
their home country is much greater than the proportions among Mexicans,
Colombians and Ecuadoreans. So some took the appointment of Mr. Pena, the son of
a prominent Dominican politician, as an affront.

Dr. Rafael Lantigua, president of the governing Dominican Revolutionary Party's
United States chapters and a professor of clinical medicine at Columbia
University, said he welcomed the appointment of Mr. Pena, but acknowledged that
some party members were disappointed. "It was the belief of members of the party
that it would be someone from here," he said. "The party has at least 25,000
members in New York, 2,800 in leadership positions. You would expect that among
those 2,800 there would be a qualified person."

Sitting in the bustling Dominican Consulate in Times Square, Mr. Pena, 34, said
being an outsider was not a problem. Speaking of consular nominees in general,
he said, "The important thing is not that he is from here or from there, but
that he is conscious that he has to do a job for the community, independent of
politics or the party he belongs to."

Whatever his qualifications, he does have more to get used to than his New
York-savvy predecessors did. "It's not a third world country," he said. "Here,
for example, the power never goes out."   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Pena oversees consular services for 800,000. (Ting-Li
Wang/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DOMESTIC SECURITY -- Immigration;
Who's Here, Why And for How Long?

BYLINE:  By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 476 words


With a heightened priority on tightening the nation's borders, few federal
agencies have faced as much scrutiny since Sept. 11 as the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Long saddled with a reputation for antiquated computers and staggering paperwork
backlogs, the agency increased the scrutiny of foreigners entering the United
States after the attacks.

The immigration service is working more closely with the Treasury Department and
the F.B.I. to track possible terrorists. Inspectors at ports and other border
crossings now have access to the State Department's consular database to prevent
visa fraud.

To crack down on foreigners who remain in the United States despite deportation
orders, the agency has entered the names of 314,000 "criminal aliens" into the
F.B.I.'s database so local police officers can identify them.

But the immigration service still has no firm data on how many foreign students
have overstayed or violated their visas -- despite a 1996 law requiring a
tracking system for the 547,000 people holding student visas. A computer network
to track foreign students is expected to be doing the job early next year.

As part of the effort to screen out potential terrorists, new Justice Department
regulations will take effect beginning Sept. 11 that ultimately would require
some 100,000 foreign students, tourists, researchers and other visitors to
register with the federal government, officials said.

Visitors from Iran, Iraq, Libya, Sudan and Syria, as well as many residents of
about 20 largely Muslim and Middle Eastern nations, will be fingerprinted,
photographed and required to fill out a long form. The regulations would not
affect those with green cards.

Separately, the immigration service has proposed shortening the length of a
standard tourist visa to as little as 30 days.

The Justice Department has issued new rules that allow the attorney general to
authorize state or local law enforcement officers to track illegal immigrants.
This reverses a longstanding legal tradition and has prompted some police
departments to express concern that the new measure could jeopardize their
relations with immigrants, who would be less willing to report crimes.

The Justice Department also decided to start enforcing a 50-year-old law that
requires immigrants to report their change of address to the immigration service
within 10 days of moving. But in July, the I.N.S. acknowledged that 200,000
change of address forms were sitting in boxes in underground storage.

"The federal government has taken a number of sensible steps and made tremendous
progress in deterring the admission of potential terrorists," said Frank Sharry,
executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an immigration policy
group. "But inside the country, the government has acted in a heavy-handed way
that hasn't made us any safer."   ERIC SCHMITT

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: SECURITY;
Government Ready to Fingerprint and Keep Track of Some Foreign Visitors

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1032 words


Immigration agents at the nation's border crossings, airports and seaports will
begin this week to fingerprint foreigners who they suspect may pose security
risks and will require those visitors to regularly report where they are staying
and what they are doing in the United States.

The new procedures, intended to improve the monitoring of certain foreigners in
the country, will apply to anyone arriving with a student, business or tourist
visa who is believed to fit the criteria of a potential terrorist.

Justice Department officials said they would not disclose the criteria that the
agents will use in determining who will be required to submit to fingerprinting,
as well as photographing, for fear of jeopardizing intelligence-gathering.

Still, the widespread assumption among civil liberties groups and American
Muslims is that visitors from Arab and Islamic nations will receive the closest
scrutiny. Arab nations have drawn the same conclusion and the 22-member Arab
League has denounced the new effort as discriminatory.

The new measures are supposed to go into effect on a trial basis at some points
of entry on Wednesday and to be in operation at all points of entry by Oct. 1.
The Justice Department would not say where the new monitoring will start this
week.

Many Muslim visa applicants are already singled out for extra investigation
before they leave home. In line with a post-Sept. 11 rule, applicants from 26
countries, a list that is dominated by Islamic nations, must be cleared by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation before their requests are reviewed at American
consulates. That policy, put into place two months after the terrorist attacks
on New York and Washington last year, affects men between the ages of 26 and 45.

The extra layer of review has prolonged the visa-application process for
students, business travelers and tourists to at least six weeks and, often,
longer, and prompted some Arab commentators to call for reciprocal treatment of
Americans traveling to the Middle East.

In announcing the approval of the new rules last month, Attorney General John
Ashcroft said that additional monitoring of visa holders once they arrive in the
United States was necessary to take into account constantly updated intelligence
about the activities of terrorist organizations.

The requirement that selected foreign visitors must regularly report their
whereabouts to the government, he added, would help detect terrorists who go
underground after arriving in the country. Some of the 19 hijackers in last
year's terror attacks had violated the terms of or overstayed visas.

Many Arabs have stopped coming to the United States. Middle Eastern diplomats
said the number of people from Arab countries asking for visas has dropped by
half over the past year, an outgrowth of the lengthy application process and a
fear of running into anti-Arab sentiment here.

The decline in visits may prove to be counterproductive to American policy goals
of promoting better understanding between Muslims and the West, the Egyptian
ambassador to the United States, Nabil Fahmy, warned.

"You faced a horrible tragedy and it requires remedial action in terms of
security, but it also requires a long-term perspective," Mr. Fahmy said. "While
some security measures are justified, I think one lesson to be learned from the
tragedy is the need to understand each other better and this requires more
interaction."

A spokesman for the Justice Department, Jorge Martinez, said fingerprints and
photographs would automatically be taken of any citizen of Iran, Iraq, Syria,
Sudan and Libya. In 2001, 44,000 student, business and other temporary visas
were issued to visitors from those countries, which are five of the seven
countries designated by the State Department as sponsors of terrorism. (The
other two are Cuba and North Korea.)

He said the other visitors who will be checked are those who are considered
security risks by the State Department or by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service officers, based on intelligence reports of terrorist strategy and
behavior. Mr. Martinez said he could not estimate how many people are likely to
be checked.

The fingerprints will be checked immediately against computerized intelligence
and criminal databases already available to immigration agents at the ports.
Those selected foreigners would then be required to report to the I.N.S. any
changes in where they are staying or what they are doing, and if they fail to
report in, their names would be added to the list of federal criminals.

Mr. Martinez rejected the criticism from American Muslim groups that the rules
broadly discriminate against Muslims and would amount to racial profiling.

"That inspector will have specific criteria based on intelligence reports," he
said. "It would not be a profile on race."

About one in five visitors to the United States already undergoes extra
questioning and security checks in what is called secondary inspection at places
of entry.

Last year, for example, immigration agents took 7.3 million incoming visitors
out of the passport lines for further scrutiny, in most cases because the agents
suspected they carried false documents.

That procedure -- closed to any outside scrutiny -- has long been a matter of
concern to civil liberties and immigrants'-rights groups. They have said many
foreigners, especially asylum seekers, have been mistreated during secondary
inspections.

"What we've experienced in secondary inspection is that it's this black box,"
said the director of the Washington office of the Lawyers Committee for Human
Rights, Elisa C. Massimino. "There are no outside observers, a lot of abusive
language and even some physical abuse." The immigration service has responded in
the past to such claims by saying its inspectors treat foreigners respectfully
and only use physical force when necessary to restrain someone in a secondary
inspection.

The prospect of being fingerprinted and monitored has many potential visitors
worried already, she said. "We've already had calls from our human rights
colleagues from other countries, asking 'if I come to your dinner in the fall,
is this going to happen to me?' " Ms. Massimino said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
New Policy Delays Visas For Specified Muslim Men

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 9


Under a policy quietly imposed by the Bush administration three months ago, tens
of thousands of Muslim men, from more than 26 countries, have not been able to
get United States visas, disrupting lives, creating diplomatic tensions and
causing headaches for American diplomats.

The policy requires that officials in Washington approve visas for every male
between the ages of 16 and 45 who is a native of any one of 26 countries. Most
are in the Mideast, but the list also includes Pakistan, Malaysia and Indonesia,
several diplomats said.

Even if a man does not live in one of those countries, but he or a close
relative was born in one of them, his visa application must be sent for
approval. Before Sept. 11, consular offices or embassies could issue most visas
after a routine check.

After Sept. 11, applications from men in this category had to be sent to
Washington, and if nothing negative turned up in 30 days, the embassy could
issue the visa. Now the consular office must send the application to Washington
and wait for a response. The policy was changed because the administration found
that there were too many applications to review adequately within 30 days,
diplomats said.

The delays now are interminable. One American official said there was a backlog
of least 100,000 visa applications, now being reviewed by the F.B.I. and C.I.A.

At a time that the United States is trying to improve its image and win friends,
American diplomats say the policy is generating widespread hostility in the very
countries and population -- Muslim men -- from which the Bush administration
most wants to gain support.

The visa applicants are primarily university students, many of whom had gone
home for the summer vacation and are now unable to resume their studies, and
business executives with American companies, who want to travel to the United
States for sales conferences and other meetings at their headquarters, American
diplomats said.

In Indonesia, a country crippled by corruption, there was widespread support for
a program to send 54 civil servants to Los Angeles last month for a seminar
about stemming corruption, followed by visits to offices in Washington and New
York that dealt with the issue. But 51 of the individuals were unable to get
their visas, the program's organizers said; of the 3 who did, one is a woman and
the other two are men over 50.

"There are so many horror stories in the region," said a senior American
diplomat in the Middle East. "We say we need to improve our image," he went on.
"To do that people need to understand us. To do that we need more exchange
programs." The men being denied visas and thus access to these programs, he
said, "are the very people we want to engage, want to influence."

American officials say they cannot tell an applicant how long it will take for
word from Washington, and that very few visas have been issued to men in this
category.

In Singapore, it took a call from a cabinet minister to the American ambassador,
Franklin L. Lavin, to get a visa for someone who had a scholarship to Stanford.

"It's been 22 years since I did consular work," Mr. Lavin said, laughing. But he
added more seriously, "Don't we want to encourage more of these guys to get
degrees in the U.S.?"

Singapore is not on the list of countries that automatically attract scrutiny,
but many Singaporean residents were born in one of the suspect countries, or an
immediate relative was, and that makes them subject to the policy. Several
hundred students from Singapore are waiting for their visas in order to start
school in the United States, Mr. Lavin said.

"It's certainly not creating good will," he added.

In Malaysia, also, several hundred students who have been admitted to American
universities, usually with scholarships, have been unable to get to the United
States for classes, said Donald McCloud, director of the Malaysian-American
Commission on Educational Exchange. The State Department-funded organization
administers the Fulbright program and encourages Malaysian students to go to the
United States for study.

He said a majority of the applicants were ethnic Chinese and are not even
Muslims. "They are certainly not terrorist material at all, but they're getting
nailed."

In Indonesia, at least 400 students are stranded, unable to go to the United
States for the start of this school year, officials said.

One of them, Anies, is a doctoral student in political science at Northern
Illinois University who had come home to do some research. He had studied on a
Fulbright at the University of Maryland and had received a master's degree.

On July 15, he went to the embassy to apply for renewal of his visa and was
interviewed by a consular officer. He was told to return in a month to pick up
his visa. But when he went back on Aug. 16, it was not ready. "I'm still
waiting," he said.

There is now a backlog of 2,500 visa applicants here, most from businessmen,
embassy officials said.

Like Anies, they can check a Web site the embassy here set up to advise them on
what is happening. (usembassyjakarta.org/pickup.html) Every day, like today, the
message is the same, Anies said: "There are no visas ready to be picked up at
this time."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The War on Civil Liberties

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 686 words


It would be easy to dismiss the harm that has been done to our civil liberties
in the past year. Most of us do not know anyone whose rights have been seriously
curtailed. The 1,200 detainees rounded up after Sept. 11 and held in secret were
mainly Muslim men with immigration problems. So were the people the government
tried to deport in closed hearings. The two Americans who were labeled "enemy
combatants," hustled off to military brigs and denied the right even to meet
with a lawyer, are a Saudi-American man captured in Afghanistan and a onetime
Chicago gang member.

There is also no denying that the need for effective law enforcement is greater
than ever. The Constitution, Justice Arthur Goldberg once noted, is not a
suicide pact.

And yet to curtail individual rights, as the Bush administration has done, is to
draw exactly the wrong lessons from history. Every time the country has felt
threatened and tightened the screws on civil liberties, it later wished it had
not done so. In each case -- whether the barring of government criticism under
the Sedition Act of 1798 and the Espionage Act of 1918, the internment of
Japanese-Americans in World War II or the McCarthyite witch hunts of the cold
war -- profound regrets set in later.

When we are afraid, as we have all been this year, civil liberties can seem
abstract. But they are at the core of what separates this country from nearly
all others; they are what we are defending when we go to war. To slash away at
liberty in order to defend it is not only illogical, it has proved to be a
failure. Yet that is what has been happening.

Since last September, the Bush administration has held people in prison
indefinitely and refused to tell the public who is being held or even how many
detainees there are. No less odious than the administration's secret arrests are
its secret trials. The government has barred the public and the press from
deportation hearings for immigrants suspected of ties to terrorism.

The administration has also shown contempt for basic rights in its enthusiasm
for military tribunals. In November, when President Bush first issued the order
setting these up, it seemed the administration wanted to try anyone alleged to
have ties to terrorism, even American citizens arrested in the United States, in
military courts. Faced with an uproar, the administration backed down,
announcing that the tribunals would accord defendants some rights. It then
decided to try several prominent terrorism suspects in civilian courts.

This summer the administration unveiled, with great fanfare, the TIPS program
(for Terrorism Information and Prevention System), to recruit Americans to spy
on their fellow Americans. As originally conceived, TIPS was to include mail
carriers, utility workers and others with access to people's homes. Again, after
a popular outcry the administration scaled TIPS back.

In times of conflict, the president seeks to increase his power. Congress,
sensitive to public fears over safety, cannot always be counted on to stand up
to him. That leaves the judiciary and members of the public to worry about the
trampling of rights. This year a number of judges have stood out for their
courage. Gladys Kessler, of Federal District Court in Washington, D.C., declared
that secret arrests were "odious to a democratic society," and ordered the
government to release the names of all detainees. It has not done so. And Judge
Robert Doumar of Federal District Court in Norfolk, Va., who is presiding over
one of the "enemy combatant" cases, recently told prosecutors to submit
documents for his review so he could determine if the defendant was in fact an
enemy combatant. The Justice Department, disgracefully, defied his order.

As the Bush administration continues down its path, the American people need to
make clear that they have learned from history and will not allow their rights
to be rolled back. The world has changed since Sept. 11, but the values this
country was founded on have not. Fear is no guide to the Constitution. We must
fight the enemies of freedom abroad without yielding to those at home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 11, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRANTS;
Going by 'Joe,' Not 'Yussef,' but Still Feeling Like an Outcast

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1446 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich.


AT a recent meeting of the Wednesday Club, two dozen Arab-American businessmen
traded bawdy jokes across a table laden with plates of fettoosh and flaming
platters of broiled meats, until Ahmad Chebbani interrupted with an
announcement.

"If you're a green card holder, you have to file a change of address within 10
days," Mr. Chebbani, a tax accountant, read from an e-mail message he had
received that afternoon. "It's an old law. Now they just want to implement it."

Someone muttered something about how overwhelming this would be in Arizona and
California, places flooded with immigrants from Mexico.

"No," corrected Nasser Beydoun, executive director of the American Arab Chamber
of Commerce. "It's just for Arabs."

For the men of the Wednesday Club, as for many in the nation's growing Arab and
Muslim communities, this has been the year the American dream descended into
nightmare. What began as a backlash of hate crimes immediately after the Sept.
11 terrorist attacks has stretched through months of suspicion and losing
friends. Domestic and foreign policies, especially on Afghanistan, Iraq and
Israel and particularly those about civil liberties, have exacerbated feelings
of alienation.

"It's like abuse," said Nazih Saad, 41, an engineering consultant. "In a bad
marriage, if a husband abuses the wife, she starts to feel she deserves the
beating. That's the same thing, you start to feel there must be something
horrible about being Arab."

Here in Dearborn, a Detroit suburb where a third of the 100,000 residents are of
Middle Eastern descent, the largest concentration of Arab-Muslims in the
country, the scars are evident.

For nine years, the Wednesday Club has been a monthly respite, a night out to
catch up with old schoolmates between puffs on imported cigars and belts of
arak, the Lebanese liquor.

But now, like most everything here, the social club has taken on a more serious
tone, as a support system and information network for a group increasingly under
stress and scrutiny.

They still tell jokes, poking equal fun at Attorney General John Ashcroft and
the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat. But they also swap stories of being singled
out at airports -- or of choosing driving vacations to avoid the humiliation at
airports. They share concerns about children who have surprised them lately with
questions like "Are we Arab?" and struggle together over whether to change their
names from Yussef to Joe, Muhammed to Mike, as so many neighbors and colleagues
have done.

They talk of buying homes in the old country, just in case, and imagine, only
half-laughing, playing cards at an internment camp somewhere in Louisiana.

With 750 Middle Eastern immigrants having been detained without explanation, and
at least twice that number interviewed at random by the authorities, many here
find themselves wondering who is listening in on their phone lines, and whether
they might be the next to be named an enemy combatant.

"After Sept. 11, we worried about being targeted, being suspected," said Hassan
Jaber, deputy director of the Arab Community Center for Economic and Social
Services, known as Access. "A year has made it clear that Arab-Americans are the
targets, Muslim-Americans are the targets."

Complaints to the Council on American-Islamic Relations -- from verbal abuse to
violence, job loss to denial of access to public facilities -- increased
threefold this year, to 1,516. This summer, nearly half the 945 Muslims that the
group surveyed said their lives had deteriorated over the last year. A poll in
May by the Arab American Institute Foundation found 40 percent of Arab-Americans
knew someone who had been discriminated against since Sept. 11; one in five --
mainly the young, Muslim or foreign-born -- said they had experienced
discrimination themselves.

Some community leaders do see an upside: the public's increased interest in
Islam has allowed them to forge bonds with other faith groups. Apathy has given
way to activism, with a surge in voter registration and turnout motivated by the
perceived threat to civil liberties.

Still, many say they feel doubly victimized, first suffering along with the rest
of the nation during the attacks, now feeling hated both by Americans and by
Muslims abroad.

Ismael Ahmed, executive director of Access, said requests for mental health
services were up at least 10 percent. "It's not just that more people need more
help, it's what they're saying when they come in to get help," he explained.
"People suffering from depression talk about racism. People suffering from
psychosis, the person chasing them around is F.B.I. or C.I.A."

For some, the impact has been more direct -- and more devastating. Ahmed Esa
lost his job. Dean Hachem lost his profit margin. Saleh Almansoop lost his
father.

Ali Almansoop's name will not be read at any of the memorials on the anniversary
of 9/11. His picture will not appear among victims' photos in the newspapers.
Instead, it tops the mantel in the modest home here where Saleh, 26, a
restaurant dishwasher and busboy, is now responsible for the $1,500 mortgage, a
$420-a-month car lease, and the care of his mother and three younger siblings,
who arrived recently from Yemen.

Ali Almansoop, who had lived in America for 32 years, was killed Sept. 19 in one
of a dozen murders nationwide attributed to anti-Muslim sentiment after the
attacks. Among the victims were Sikhs mistaken for Muslims. Brent Seever, who
was convicted of the shooting in June, said he was incensed at Mr. Almansoop's
relationship with his former girlfriend, but also told the police, "I was
motivated by all this terroristic activity."

Saleh Almansoop said of his father's slaying: "Same terrorists, this is the
same. Same New York, same killed my dad. I lose my dad, I lose everything."

LIKE Ali Almansoop, Ahmed Esa came from Yemen without his wife and children, in
1976. He worked as a welder in a factory for 15 years -- until Sept. 12, when
his boss sent him home, screaming, "Go pray," and, "Go to your leader." Mr. Esa
is now suing the company, IW&S.

Paul Rokoczy, the company president, said that he sent Mr. Esa home mainly
because he had little for him to do that day, and because "the religious
activity bothered me, because of the bombing."

Mr. Esa, 53, refused to return the following week. He eventually found a job as
a security guard.

Dean Hachem had always felt welcome in the heavily Jewish suburb of Orchard
Lake, where he opened his restaurant, the Sheik, in 1996.

But on Sept. 11, an e-mail message spread like cholera saying that employees at
the Sheik were seen celebrating in front of the television that noon. Though
security videotapes showed no such thing, the ensuing boycott has ruined Mr.
Hachem's business; he is closing his second restaurant, in a nearby mall, this
month; receipts are still down 30 percent at the original restaurant.

"You feel like you've been stabbed," he said on one recent dinner hour, when 30
of the 39 tables sat empty. "When you get accused of something, you have nothing
to do with it, you cannot focus your mind."

Such a response was expected, and perhaps inevitable, in the weeks after the
attacks. What is surprising is that it has not subsided. Just last month, a
woman came into Play Ball, the sporting goods store that Mohamed Odetalle owns
in suburban Westland, looking for a Red Wings jersey. She left without buying,
only to head for the Play Ball store in a mall across the street -- which Mr.
Odetalle also owns but never works at -- where she paid $10 more for the jersey.

"I knew the lady was uncomfortable; she and her husband were whispering," Mr.
Odetalle said, shrugging. Other customers, he said, have told his manager at the
mall that they would rather pay extra than do business with the foreigner across
the street.

Basim Alkhateeb was in his native Jordan, where he is a major in the military,
on Sept. 11. He came to the United States in January to pursue a Ph.D. in
electrical engineering at Oakland University. On June 20, Mr. Alkhateeb was on
his way to take a final exam when, he said, an undercover police officer pulled
a gun on him in suburban Waterford.

"The first question, 'Are you Arabic?' " Mr. Alkhateeb, 36, remembered. "I told
him, 'Yes, I'm Arabic.' He pushed me to the ground."

Mr. Alkhateeb added: "He began to beat on my back and my leg. He still had his
gun against my head and my face. I didn't understand him. I'm just waiting for
his gun to explode."

Mr. Alkhateeb was not arrested; he is planning to file a lawsuit -- and to
return to Jordan. "I feel we are not welcome here, everybody hates us," he said.
" "It may happen in my country. It may happen in any country, but in America?
It's incredible."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ahmed Esa, bottom left, prays at a Michigan mosque, where men
gather outside after a service. But in the larger community, some Arab-Americans
have felt more alienated since 9/11. Mohamed Odetalle, above, says people have
walked out of his sporting goods store after seeing him behind the counter.
(Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) Graph: "In Times of Crisis,
More Choose to Be Americans"There have been some significant spikes in the
number of legal immigrants seeking citizenship in the months following Sept. 11,
but it is too early to see an overall trend because the naturalization process
is long. But the increase is reminiscent of similar surges in naturalization
rates after World War I and during World War II. Graph tracks Citizenship
Applications Filed by Month Jan. 2001-July 2002. Graph tracks Persons
Naturalized by Year 1925-1950. Late 1920sAfter World War I, a surge in
immigration led to restrictive laws for immigrants, causing citizenship requests
to rise. 1939-1945Immigrants from nations allied with Germany in World War II,
like Italy and Bulgaria, sought citizenship to avoid the label of enemy aliens.
Naturalization was expedited for those in the military. (Sources: Immigration
and Naturalization Service; "And Still They Come: Immigrants and American
Society," by Elliott Barkan 1996 )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 12, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE GLOBE: In Looking Back on 9/11 Attacks, Nations Show a World of Emotions --
Germany;
Mindful of Its Role, City Walks the Edge

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 415 words

DATELINE: HAMBURG, Germany, Sept. 11


At 5 a.m. today, more than 200 police officers swarmed over an Islamic center
and apartment building that houses El Nur mosque here, acting on an encrypted
tip that an Egyptian man was preparing a bomb.

No Egyptian was found, and no bomb -- just eight illegal immigrants. But the
frenzy was a measure of this somber, awkward anniversary here. Hamburg was on
edge today, everyone mindful of its place in history as the safe harbor for
Mohamed Atta and other men who carried out the attacks a year ago.

"Hamburg has a large responsibility for Sept. 11, nationally and
internationally," said Walter Wellinghausen, Hamburg's deputy interior minister.
"It's partly why we made a judgment that such a search was necessary."

Nearby, at the Lades Doner shop, Ayan Fahrettin, a Turkish Kurd who has been
here eight years, was preparing roast meat for one of Germany's most popular
snacks. He was thinking "of all the dead" resulting from the attacks of Sept.
11.

"I feel sad for the dead in New York and for the dead in Afghanistan," he said.
"America has broken Afghanistan and many died there, too. And next comes Iraq
and then Iran and then North Korea -- Bush is a strong man, but does he want to
destroy the whole world?"

Mr. Fahrettin said that American policies had been good for the Kurds and the
Turks, and that he hated Saddam Hussein. "But the people of Iraq suffer," he
said. "And today I ask, what the people in America are thinking about? Is the
whole world going to be run by America?"

In the suburb of Harburg, where Mr. Atta lived at Marienstrasse 54, a cameraman
was filming the building. In the shopping center where Mr. Atta and his friends
drank coffee and made telephone calls, Vedat Kartal, 32, said that the mood had
changed among Muslims this last year.

"People look at each other more skeptically," he said. "I myself look at people
differently. I'm aware that it all came from here."

One hijacker, Marwan al-Shehhi, was a customer at his telephone shop, Mr. Kartal
said. "I remember him well," he said. "He was quiet and friendly." Yet, he said,
rage against America is strong, especially among young Arabs. "I'm not surprised
that the violence came from here."

He condemned the attacks as "a very cowardly act, to take revenge on innocent
people." But the sympathy felt is for those people, he said, not for America.

Americans, despite their loss, need more humility, Mr. Kartal said. "I would
tell Americans this day: 'Life will go on, even with a defeat.' "   STEVEN
ERLANGER

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 12, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

VIGILANCE AND MEMORY: UNITED NATIONS;
Departing Rights Commissioner Faults U.S.

BYLINE:  By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; A Nation Challenged; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 609 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 11


In the final days of her five years in office, Mary Robinson, the United Nations
high commissioner for human rights, has sharply criticized the United States for
eroding civil liberties at home and human rights standards around the world
since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.

"The United States could be a leader in combating terrorism while upholding
human rights," Mrs. Robinson said in an interview here on Monday. "Instead it
has sought to put all the emphasis on combating terrorism and has not been fully
upholding human rights standards. And that's having a ripple effect on other
less democratic countries."

She cited the United States' use of immigration laws to detain foreigners within
its borders for indefinite periods, the racial profiling of people of Arab
descent in searches and the prosecution of American citizens as enemy
combatants, limiting their rights to legal representation. She also mentioned
severe restrictions placed on the prisoners taken during the military campaign
in Afghanistan and now being held at the American military base in Guantanamo
Bay in Cuba.

Mrs. Robinson, the United Nations' top human rights official, said that over the
last year, when she questioned other governments on repressive measures, they
responded by pointing to the United States and saying, in her words, "For
goodness sakes, standards have changed."

A number of developing nations have copied antiterrorism measures adopted by the
Justice Department in the past year but have applied them to suppress opponents,
Mrs. Robinson said. She mentioned new laws and political crackdowns in the name
of fighting terrorism in Egypt, Zimbabwe and Pakistan, among others.

By coincidence, Mrs. Robinson's term ends on Sept. 11. She did not seek another
term. Her successor, Sergio Vieira de Mello, a Brazilian, has spent most of his
33-year career at the United Nations in the Office of the High Commissioner for
Refugees, and recently directed the operation overseeing East Timor's transition
to independence from Indonesia.

A former president of Ireland, Mrs. Robinson, 58, brought a new outspoken style
to the commissioner's job, often rattling the United Nations, traditionally
timid about open criticism of governments. She sought to make sure her critique
included both developing countries and major powers. Her forthright commentary
often grated on Bush administration officials, who complained that she had made
confronting the United States a personal cause.

In a response on Wednesday, American officials dismissed Mrs. Robinson's
contention that they were neglecting rights issues. "In her last days of work,
Mrs. Robinson should validate that the United States is a leader in advocating
for stronger human rights around the world," said Richard A. Grenell, spokesman
for the United States mission here.

In February, Mrs. Robinson joined the International Committee of the Red Cross
in asking the administration to clarify whether the Guantanamo prisoners would
be allowed the protections of the Geneva Conventions for prisoners of war. The
administration did not respond to the query, and appears to have applied the
conventions "a la carte," she said.

She lamented the loss of Washington's help after Sept. 11 in pressing other
countries about human rights. "The United States used to play a strong role in
raising human rights concerns in its bilateral relations," she said. "Now the
United States is more focused on getting coalition partners against terrorism
and is not necessarily raising human rights."

Mrs. Robinson said she viewed the terrorist attacks a year ago as crimes against
humanity, the most grave form of human rights crime.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Robinson, the departing high commissioner for human rights.
(Reuters)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 13, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
After 9/11, Fox Still Waits For U.S. Moves on Mexico

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 12


President Vicente Fox of Mexico says that it is time for the United States to
move ahead on foreign policy matters derailed by the Sept. 11 attacks,
specifically, America's relations with his country.

"By dedicating so much concentration to the issue of security, bilateral matters
pass to a secondary level," Mr. Fox said in an interview, conducted in Spanish,
on Tuesday. He urged President Bush not to forsake his promise to work with
Mexico on issues including broad immigration reforms.

"Those matters continue to have enormous importance to us," he said. "I ask
myself if it is necessary to choose between the two issues?"

"I believe that work can be done on security, in combating terrorism," he said.
"But at the same time, the world must continue working. The world must continue
advancing, and even more our bilateral relations with the United States."

Mexico responded to the attacks by taking up Mr. Bush's call to make security,
especially at Mexico's northern and southern borders, a foreign policy priority.
Mr. Fox declared that Mexico, which had won a seat on the United Nations
Security Council, was a firm ally in the fight against terrorism.

But Mr. Fox's steadfast support for Mr. Bush gained him little in Washington,
where there was a new surge in anti-immigrant sentiments. And his pro-American
stand began to cost him greatly at home. Mexicans criticized him for submitting
Mexican interests to the will of the United States. A defiant Mexican Congress
in April denied Mr. Fox permission to travel to the United States.

"In Mexico, I find contradicting reactions in regards to relations with the
United States," he said.

"On one side, citizens have great respect for the United States, they have a
great feeling of friendship. That is solid. But in the opposition and in the
political arena I often find criticism of the closeness of relations with the
United States. That is a reality. And it is a reality that flares up every time
a new issue arises. And the issue comes up every day."

Last month, Mr. Fox canceled a trip to Texas to protest the execution of a
Mexican citizen. Mexico withdrew last week from a symbolic hemispheric defense
treaty. Earlier this week, Mr. Fox joined a chorus of leaders who cautioned Mr.
Bush against a unilateral assault on Iraq.

And the Mexican president has displayed increasing impatience with the lack of
progress in the United States on Mexico's proposals for immigration reforms.
Among other things, the reforms would give legal status to three million
undocumented Mexicans working in the United States.

When asked about these moves, Mr. Fox carefully measured his words. He
emphasized that Mexico's relationship with the United States remained "equally
strong," and "equally friendly." Still, a sense of urgency came through.

"There are feelings on my part that I would not describe as frustration or
resentment, but I feel strongly that we need to deal with bilateral matters," he
said. "I constantly make it known to the American government that we need the
same kind of attention for Latin America."

Mexico felt political and economic aftershocks from the terrorist attacks on the
United States.

Mexico's economy, which moves in lock step with the United States, fell into
protracted recession. The quarter-trillion-dollar trade with the United States
was slowed by new border security measures. Unemployment, especially in
foreign-owned assembly plants, continued to climb. And Mexico's tourist resorts
lost tens of millions of dollars of business.

Even harder hit was Mr. Fox's foreign policy agenda, which was based on a new
kind of relationship with the United States.

Despite heated criticism from the intellectuals and politicians, Mr. Fox
abandoned foreign policy traditions that kept the United States at arm's length.

Days before the attacks, he succeeded in getting the Bush administration to
acknowledge that the two nations shared a unique responsibility to work on
immigration and border safety issues.

Some 300,000 Mexicans illegally enter the United States for work each year.
Rather than avoiding this grim reality, Mr. Fox embraced it.

He praised Mexican migrants as heroes who contribute to the economic strength of
two nations. He presented an image of Mexico as an equal partner, not a poor
neighbor, to the United States.

Relations between the United States and Mexico were at a pinnacle before the
attacks, Mr. Fox said in the interview. He said he worried that a great
opportunity would be squandered.

"That is why for us the impact is stronger," he said, "to go from the summit of
optimism, of positive results, to the unprecedented shock of the terrorist
attack."

Mr. Fox said he remained committed to his proposals for immigration reform.
After the United States elections in November, he said, his government would
embark on a broad new campaign that would seek support for the measures from
grass-roots organizations up to Congress. And he said he expected the White
House to join him.

"We would expect reciprocity, we would expect fulfillment of goals," he said.
"President Bush himself has expressed to us that he would really be an ally in
the cause of migration, that we would work together to return the issue to the
highest priority."

Asked whether he believes that will really happen if the United States attacks
Iraq, Mr. Fox said, "It seems to us that this is a matter that should be
channeled through the United Nations Security Council; that there should be an
opportunity for a visit by United Nations inspectors to Iraq," he said. "We, as
a country, will be pushing strongly in that direction."

From Soda Pop to Top Spot

EARLY YEARS: Born Mexico City, July 2, 1942, son of wealthy farmers; Studied
business administration at Ibero-American University; did not finish degree
until 1999.

PUBLIC CAREER: Salesman for Coca-Cola starting in 1964; President of the
company's operations in Mexico, 1975-1979.

POLITICAL DOSSIER: Joined the conservative, pro-Catholic National Action Party,
1980; Elected to federal chamber of deputies, 1988; Elected governor of
Guanajuato, 1995. Elected president, 2000, ending 71 years of uninterrupted rule
by the Institutional Revolutionary Party.

STYLE: Corporate background, populist style. Prefers blue jeans and cowboy
boots. Mexico's most openly religious president in modern history, carried
images of the Virgin of Guadalupe, Mexico's patron saint, as a campaign banner.
Stirred controversy over separation of church and state when he kissed Pope John
Paul II's ring during the papal visit in June.

In His Words

The consequences of an attack on Iraq are not predictable. It appears to me that
it would have very broad effects at the global level on many things and it would
have very broad effects on bilateral issues and issues on the Latin American
agenda.

I believe that the issue of Iraq must be the product of deep reflection. It
seems to us that this is a matter that should be channeled through the United
Nations Security Council; that there should be an opportunity for a visit by
United Nations inspectors to visit Iraq.

We, as a country, will be pushing strongly in that direction; in that it will be
the U.N. that makes the visit, that it's the U.N. which certifies what
conditions are there. But first we need objective information to be able to then
reflect on the best decisions to take. I think the Iraq situation would have an
impact that would affect the whole world.

At this moment we can't take a position, nor make a decision precisely because
information is lacking. It would be very important to really know what are
Iraq's activities regarding terrorism, what are Iraq's activities regarding
weapons of mass destruction, what are its activities in terms of its ability to
deliver these weapons.

The debate which must take place in the United Nations and in the U.N. Security
Council, where we are present, is also important. So for me and for Mexico,
first we need a lot of information, a lot of objectivity, deep reflection and
then we will be able to give an opinion.

Perspectives

These are the 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th interviews of a series in which national
and world figures reflect on the terrorist attacks and their effect on a year of
public life and policy. The articles and interviews are online:

nytimes.com/perspectives

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: PERSPECTIVES -- Sept. 11 and Beyond: Vicente Fox

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicente Fox (Luis J. Jimenez for The New York Times)(pg. A16)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 15, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Campaigners Are Offered N.R.A. Escorts

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 90 words

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Sept. 14


A Republican is offering his re-election campaign volunteers protection for
forays into immigrant neighborhoods -- escorts from the National Rifle
Association.

At a rally today, Democrats criticized the move by Representative Robin Hayes.

John Cotham, the Mecklenburg County Democratic chairman, said, "A representative
in Congress should not be afraid of the district they represent."

Mr. Hayes's campaign had sent an e-mail message to county Republicans saying,
"N.R.A. members will cover neighborhoods that might be uncomfortable."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

German Rival, in Hard Race, Raises Specter of Immigrants

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, Sept. 16


Germany's conservative opposition, trying to regain its lead in the opinion
polls before national elections on Sunday, opened a new front today, contending
that the government of Gerhard Schroder was undermining national security and
the economy by letting in too many immigrants.

Mr. Schroder has revived his own supporters and earned a small lead in the polls
by running hard to the left. His rival, Edmund Stoiber, who has run a bland,
centrist campaign, is making a last-minute lurch to the right, trying to win
back his own voters in a volatile climate.

In a television interview this morning, Mr. Stoiber said he would throw out a
government reform passed earlier this year intended to open Germany to qualified
immigrants with needed skills.

"When there are more than four million jobless," Mr. Stoiber said, "then it is
irresponsible to open up the job market to everyone."

Mr. Stoiber's spokesman on police and immigration matters, Gunther Beckstein,
said today that the government was hurting domestic security and compromising
Germany's economic future with its immigration policy.

Mr. Beckstein cited a Greens politician who called the new law a step toward
making Germany "a modern, multicultural land of immigration."

Mr. Beckstein said, "That is exactly what we don't want."

Instead, Germany must integrate the 7.3 million foreigners who live here and
find work for the more than four million Germans who do not have jobs, Mr.
Beckstein said. He called for the deportation of any foreigner sentenced to
prison for more than two years and for limits on the residence permits of
immigrants on welfare.

Mr. Schroder called the new conservative strategy a sign of "helplessness and
aggressiveness," adding, "It is a desperate attempt to find a topic with which
one can arouse emotions, but I think the public will see through it."

Mr. Schroder has revived his chances to win re-election through his handling of
Germany's disastrous floods and his sharp message of opposition to a new,
American-led war in Iraq.

His campaign to preserve the peace -- in open and pungent opposition to the Bush
administration -- has won him support, while making Mr. Stoiber seem
wishy-washy, unwilling to support the Americans but also unwilling to rule out a
war in Iraq.

While many had thought that Mr. Stoiber would run to the right, he had instead
sounded moderate on social issues while hammering hard at the poor state of
Germany's economy. But Mr. Schroder has argued that unemployment and low growth
are a result of global factors beyond his control -- not his inability to
challenge his union supporters and make the labor market more flexible.

In early August, polls indicated, Mr. Stoiber's conservatives were between five
and seven percentage points ahead of Mr. Schroder's Social Democrats, who govern
in coalition with the Greens. Now, with the vote on Sunday, Mr. Schroder has
opened a small lead, and has the momentum.

He has sought to capitalize on his own popularity and that of his foreign
minister, Joschka Fischer, a Green, by trying to run as a kind of personality
ticket, highly unusual in a parliamentary democracy. Mr. Fischer, an elfin
former radical, is Germany's most popular politician, with an approval rating of
more than 80 percent in the polls, and both men are more popular than their own
parties.

So on Sunday evening, Mr. Schroder held an unusual joint rally in downtown
Berlin with Mr. Fischer, under a giant red and green poster that read, in
English: "Go on!" -- to another term with what is called his red-green coaliton.

"I want this foreign secretary and no one else," Mr. Schroder said, pointing to
Mr. Fischer. The foreign secretary then returned the favor, saying: "I do not
want to become chancellor. I want Gerhard Schroder to be the next chancellor."

But as the immigration question returned to the political agenda, Deutsche Bank
said Germany's population could fall from 82 million to 65 million in 50 years
-- with the work force shrinking by 27 percent, to 30 million by 2040 -- unless
politicians allow more immigration and provide incentives to women to combine a
career with child-rearing. About 500,000 immigrants a year would be needed to
prevent a decline in the working-age population, the bank said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2002 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Well, the Ices Are Still Italian;
Immigration Patterns Shift, Altering the Old Neighborhood

BYLINE:   By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1398 words


What Sal Calabrese has always loved about Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, the city's
largest Italian neighborhood, is that it provides the intimacies of a village.

"If I walk out," he said, "I will say hello to 15 or 20 people and they to me.
'Hi, Sal. How are you? How's your father?' Like the old days. We're from
different places in Italy, but we live in the same town."

But these days, Mr. Calabrese worries that Bensonhurst may soon lose the
congenial feeling that comes from a place of common habits and pleasures.

Bensonhurst is losing its Italians. According to the 2000 census, the number of
residents of Italian descent is down to 59,112, little more than half that of
two decades ago, and the departed Italians have been replaced by Chinese and
Russian families.

Mr. Calabrese volunteers that he is part of that movement. His parents still
live in the neighborhood and he runs a thriving real estate agency there, but
three years ago he moved to Bedminster, N.J., to a 34-acre farm where he breeds
Arabian horses.

Italian-Americans, who have given New York City much of its charm in emblems as
telltale as Fiorello La Guardia and fuhgeddaboutit, are declining sharply in
numbers in all the boroughs except Staten Island. Many New Yorkers worry not
only that they will lose the Italian neighborhoods but that the Italian
influence on the city's personality will fade away.

The census shows that the number of New Yorkers of Italian descent has fallen
below 700,000, compared with more than one million in 1980 and 839,000 in 1990.

Despite the reputation of immigrant groups for die-hard allegiance to old
neighborhoods, what is happening, sociologists say, is the continuation of a
trend that has been going on for several decades now: the children who grew up
in the working-class and middle-class homes of immigrant neighborhoods are, like
Mr. Calabrese, now professionals, managers and business people who want suburban
homes with backyards of grass, not concrete.

In Bensonhurst, the Italian-American residents, who once passed houses on to
their own relatives or those of their neighbors, are selling them to the highest
bidders: Chinese moving up from nearby Sunset Park and Russians moving up from
Brighton Beach.

And so they are adapting. Mr. Calabrese employs five Chinese-speaking and six
Russian-speaking brokers among his staff of 40. Salvatore Alba, whose bakery has
drawn long lines for its cannoli and cheesecake since his Sicilian parents
opened it in 1932, has hired a Chinese-American woman to sell Italian ices.

"I figure if they can't speak English, we'll get someone to speak to them in
Chinese," Mr. Alba said of his newer customers.

Still, there are many New Yorkers who lament the impact that the decline in
Italians could have on the city's character. In politics, for example, Italian
enclaves have been a seedbed for some of the city's most prominent leaders,
lately with names like Giuliani, Cuomo, Ferraro and Vallone.

But Richard Alba, a distinguished professor of sociology at the State University
at Albany, predicts that Italian politicians will become less common in the five
boroughs.

Professor Alba thinks it is telling that Andrew M. Cuomo did so poorly in his
Democratic primary campaign for governor. He pointed out that with Italians
increasingly assimilated and dispersed and more often voting on issues than on
ethnicity, Mr. Cuomo was unable to ignite a collective ethnic outpouring.

There is, however, a wide difference of opinion on whether a shrinking Italian
population will change the city's characteristic New Yorkness, Italians having
left such a strong imprint on the city's dialect and gestures, its food and
music (think the "New York, New York" anthem sung by that Italian fellow who
grew up just across the Hudson River), and such stereotypical New York attitudes
as a wariness of authority.

But the writer Gay Talese is not lamenting some of that passing because many of
the signature images of Italians hark back to a time when Italians, in the
public eye, represented the urban underclass.

"It's not just coming to the port city and finding an address convenient to the
job," Mr. Talese said. "They're carrying their brains with them to places far
from where they work. They're more mobile because America is mobile."

Still, Mr. Talese, 70, the author of a memoir and chronicle of Italian
immigration, "Unto the Sons" (Alfred A. Knopf, 1992), volunteers that he still
retains much of what he called the Italian "village mentality." Although he
lives in a Manhattan town house, is married to Nan A. Talese, a prominent book
editor, and is a regular at Elaine's, he visits his 95-year-old mother twice a
week in his hometown, Ocean City, N.J., and takes her to a small restaurant and
then a casino so she can play the slot machines that give her pleasure.

"I'm still a hometown, small-town guy" he said.

Bensonhurst is a vintage Italian neighborhood, a place of tidy two-family brick
homes adorned with Madonnas in the front yard and American flags snapping over
the front doors. Its commercial spine, 18th Avenue, is chock-full of pork and
pasta stores and the Italian colors of green, white and red.

Along with Bay Ridge, it was the setting of much of "Saturday Night Fever," a
valentine to the 70's social styles of young Italians. It also won unwanted
national attention when a black teenager, Yusuf K. Hawkins, was murdered by a
group of local youths in 1991.

It has a long way to go before it becomes what Jerome Krase, a sociology
professor at Brooklyn College, calls an "ethnic theme park" like Little Italy,
where few Italians actually reside. But its fate seems unavoidable. Its Italians
are moving to New Jersey or Long Island or across the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge
to Staten Island.

On 18th Avenue, the site of the annual Feast of Santa Rosalia, men still sip
espresso in cafes, but there are fewer men and fewer cafes, and older people
have to walk farther for the Italian products they need.

Chinese novelty stores and beauty parlors are replacing the cafes. Along the
side streets, Chinese, who relish the neighborhood's orderliness, the schools
with seasoned teachers and the easy subway ride to Chinatown, are buying up the
two-family homes for $400,000 and more.

Aldo Studio, the neighborhood's wedding photographer, famed for its collection
of backdrops like a waterfall, a grand piano and a white Rolls-Royce, now
displays a large photograph of a Chinese bride and groom standing in front of a
maroon Harley-Davidson. Churches that were once heavily Italian are now offering
Masses in Chinese.

In this ferment, many Italians have lost their "comfort zone," said Jerry
Chiappetta, 52, executive director of the Italian-American Coalition of
Organizations, who has lived in Bensonhurst for 40 years.

"When you have an influx of people who don't share similar traditions, it's not
a question of disliking them, it's just there is less in common," he said. "And
if you're on the border of should I move or not, it's one more reason to move."

Mr. Calabrese takes it all in stride, as another turn of the American
immigration wheel.

"You go back to the early 1900's, Italians were moving near the Bowery and you'd
have two or three families sharing a two-bedroom apartment in order to buy a
house," he said. "Chinese are doing the same. They're no different than our
people."

There have been few tensions, Italians and Chinese in the neighborhood said.
"Italian people are friendly, easy to talk to," said Lisa Pan, a Chinese woman
who works at her family-owned business, Wei's Gift Shop, which draws Italian
youngsters who prize its "Yu-Gi-Oh!" Japanese trading cards.

Jeiying Franco, a Chinese woman, who has taught physics in the neighborhood at
Lafayette High School since 1984, has seen the proportion of Italian students
dwindle. "I don't think Italian people have any resentment toward the Chinese,"
she said. "The Chinese are hard-working. They never bother their neighbors."

Mr. Calabrese said that 15 years ago when the Chinese began to move in, there
were complaints from Italian residents. But with the realization that the
Chinese were creating few problems, all that is left is rueful resignation.

"The feast of Santa Rosalia is still going on, but how much longer?" Mr.
Calabrese said. "If you asked me 15 years ago, I would have said it was going on
forever. Now I don't know, and that makes me sad because I am Italian."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 20, 2002



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about the shrinking Italian population of
Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, misstated the year that national attention was drawn to
the neighborhood by the murder of a black teenager, Yusuf K. Hawkins, by a group
of local youths. It was 1989, not 1991.




GRAPHIC: Photos: The annual Feast of Santa Rosalia in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn,
draws an ethnically diverse crowd now. Although the neighborhood is still
heavily Italian, it is fast becoming less so. The display at SAS Italian
Records, left, contrasts with the front window of a Chinese travel agency.
(Richard Perry/The New York Times); (Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York
Times)(pg. B1); Salvatore Alba hired a Chinese woman at his bakery to help his
newer customers, many of whom do not speak English (or Italian). (Fred R.
Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B8) Chart: "KEEPING TRACK -- New Yorkers Of
Italian Descent"Percentage of New York City residents who listed Italian as part
of their ancestry in the U.S. census. 1980: 14.22%1990: 11.452000: 8.65 (Source:
Census Bureau)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hello Mommy, Hola Nanny;
Immigrant Baby Sitters Double as Language Teachers

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1379 words


When Daniel Etkin first spoke, he said words like "mommy" and "vacuum," perhaps
not what his daddy most wanted to hear but a reflection of his fascination with
the vacuum cleaner.

But Daniel's first words also included "agua" (water) and "bonito" (pretty),
taught to him by the Salvadoran nanny who has been at his side since he was a
week old.

The nanny, Morena Lopez, does not speak English and his parents are not fluent
in Spanish, so at the tender age of 2, Daniel is the only person in the
household with the facility to communicate between them. And as with many other
children in New York City and other areas with large immigrant populations, the
nanny in Daniel's case not only feeds him and watches after him but has become
his language instructor.

The rising demand for nanny services by working parents over the last decades
and the niche that new immigrants have found in such work have combined to make
nannies de facto language teachers to children of English-speaking parents. That
trend, along with many children whose immigrant parents speak other languages,
has given higher visibility to a cultural phenomenon in many playgrounds: the
bilingual toddler.

The latest socioeconomic data from the census is not yet fully available, but
Spanish seems to be the foreign language more children are learning at an
earlier age in a city where demographic shifts have led to a higher number of
nannies and care givers from Latin America and the Caribbean.

"If Daniel is growing up in New York City he should speak Spanish," said
Daniel's mother, Liz Etkin, a headhunter who lives with her husband and son in
Washington Heights, an area of Manhattan that is heavily Dominican. "The
Hispanic population is growing faster than any other population."

Daniel's proficiency in Spanish came about by chance -- only a Spanish-speaking
nanny was available to take care of him. But some parents are seeking out
nannies specifically for the language they speak. At times they want to maintain
their own family's native language, or want the children to have help with
homework. Many parents say they want their children to have a linguistic
advantage as adults.

And in the case of American parents who adopt children from other countries,
like China, they sometimes want to build a link between children and their
roots.

"We want Alex to grow up with a great sense of pride about her birth culture,"
said Barbara Turvett, a freelance writer and editor who along with her husband
adopted a daughter, now 7, as a baby in China and hired a Mandarin-speaking
nanny.

Some job placement agencies say that in as many as 25 percent of cases parents
specifically request a nanny who speaks a second language, mostly Spanish but
also French, Korean and Japanese. These nannies are so sought after in some
circles that a candidate, particularly if college-educated and well-versed in
English, can trigger a bidding war and command more than $100,000 a year, said
Clifford Greenhouse, president of the Pavillion Agency, a large national
placement service that serves an upscale clientele.

Most nannies, however, are paid $10 to $15 an hour, or less than $35,000 a year
-- with two weeks of vacation pay as standard but no health benefits, some
employment agencies and nannies say.

Early language instruction is a controversial subject, especially in monolingual
countries, some experts note. Parental concerns range from worries that young
children may be confused if taught two languages at once to fears that they will
experience speech and other developmental delays that could hamper their
progress in school.

But Fred Genesee, a psychologist at McGill University in Montreal who has done
extensive research on bilingual acquisition in preschool and school-age
children, said such concerns were baseless, although research is ongoing for
certain groups.

"People have the notion that children are designed to learn only one language
and that exposing them to a second language taxes their ability to learn
language," he said. "But we've looked at children growing up in bilingual homes
and there's no evidence that they are slower in their language development or
are confused."

Nannies say they have it easier when they start with the children as newborns,
and many nannies pass on their language almost inadvertently through everyday
interaction. Some give their teaching some structure, though, using songs and
games, for instance, to make the language fun, or arranging play dates with
other bilingual children for reinforcement.

But some children resist. Gigi Heckenbenner, 30, a French-born nanny who was
raised in Tahiti and now lives with a family on the Upper East Side, said her
first charge in the States, a 2-year-old boy, at first took an interest in tapes
and video games in French, but soon came to see them as homework.

"He'd walk away or ignore me," she said.

Ms. Heckenbenner said she approached the 2 1/2-year-old girl she lives with now
more gingerly, first with French songs and then random words, always giving
their translation at the same time "to get her interested." Within months the
girl could put a sentence together, she said.

At a playground in Washington Heights one recent afternoon, Daniel and other
preschool children followed orders in Spanish -- and spoke in Spanish to their
nannies or in a combination of Spanish and English like "Mi ball" -- although
they switched to English when talking to each other.

"Brinca!" Daniel's nanny, Ms. Lopez, 44, whom he calls "Momo," said, urging him
to jump as he stood on top of a miniature slide in white shirt and diapers.

"A big jump," he said. Then in Spanish: "Voy a brincar alto." ("I'm going to
jump high.")

As the children enter school, maintaining their fluency in a language other than
English becomes more of a struggle, parents say, and many do lose the skill. But
some parents find schools that provide instruction in two languages, or pay for
private lessons, plan immersion vacations in other countries and in some cases,
even decide to keep the nanny.

That is what Ms. Turvett has done with Jia Shu Yuan, a nanny who has cared for
her daughter, Alexandra Pauly, since she was a baby and has become a family
figure and a role model. Mrs. Yuan, who is in her 60's and was an architect in
China, is formally teaching Alexandra to read and write Mandarin.

"I don't like practicing it," Alexandra said of the language as she sat on her
nanny's lap in her family's apartment on the East Side.

But Alexandra now has a big incentive to keep up the studies: her parents have
promised to take her back to China for the first time to visit her orphanage
when she turns 8.

"I can talk to the kids in China," she said.

In New York City, many children find plenty of people to talk to right at home.
Sherri Gorelick said her 3-year-old daughter, Ava Mikkelsen, had befriended all
the Dominican shopkeepers along West 181st Street. She also orders in Spanish at
Latin restaurants, eats "frijoles" and swivels her hips to "bachata" music --
and has given her English-speaking parents a new connection to their own
neighborhood.

By now, Ava can also carry on a conversation with her Salvadoran nanny, Angie
Alvarez, 50, and leave her parents clueless about what has just been said.

"What blows me away is that Ava speaks to me in English and she looks at Angie
and speaks in Spanish," Ms. Gorelick said.

Labor organizations like Domestic Workers United say nannies should receive
higher pay for the expectation that they teach a language, but that rarely
happens.

Many of the nannies who could not speak English were hobbled in finding other
types of work in this country. But the nannies, many of whom are housewives with
children of their own, said they loved what they did, including teaching
language.

Some noted that such teaching only underscored the importance of their work.

"Unfortunately there's a perception that nannies just go to the park," said
Zoila Quijandria, 42, a college-trained social worker from Peru who as a nanny
got multiple job offers when she recently became available through the Pavillion
Agency.

"I prepare," she said. "I read articles. We never turn on the TV."

"People like us worry not just about the education of the children but about
their manners, their nutrition," she added. "It's a beautiful job."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many families in New York have sought out nannies to teach a
second language in addition to caring for children. Daniel Etkin, 2, has learned
Spanish from his nanny, Morena Lopez, left, and Ava Mikkelsen, 3, from hers,
Angie Alvarez. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jia Shu Yuan,
left, was an architect in China, but she has been a nanny for Alexandra Pauly,
7, of Manhattan since Alexandra was a baby. Ms. Yuan has been teaching Alexandra
to read and write Mandarin, above. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York
Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tale of Sin On West Coast With Asians Smuggled In

BYLINE:  By Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 311 words


American law enforcement officials said yesterday that they had arrested eight
people operating a ring of West Coast brothels using Asian women who worked to
pay for being smuggled into the country illegally.

The seven men arrested for operating brothels and a woman accused of brokering
prostitutes catered only to Asian customers, which made it difficult to uncover
the scheme, according to a complaint filed by the United States Attorney's
Office in Seattle.

"It was a very closed circle, the woman were rotated every 7 to 10 days," said
John McKay, a United States Attorney.

The women, typically in their 20's, came mostly from China, Vietnam, Korea,
Malaysia, Laos and Thailand, and had become indebted to a broker or smuggler who
arranged and paid for their trips to the United States.

"They are typically young women and in all instances are present illegally in
the United States," Mr. McKay said.

The officials offered no information about the nationality of the suspects, but
all had Asian names. Five were arrested in Seattle. A sixth was arrested in
Portland, Ore., while two others, one a woman, were arrested in Los Angeles. All
the arrests were made on Tuesday.

In addition to those arrested, more than a dozen prostitutes were being held in
detention, the authorities said.

The Western United States and Canada have received a steady flow of illegal
Asian immigrants over the past several years, including many who pay smugglers
as much as $40,000 for passage in rickety vessels or shipping containers.

Several Chinese would-be immigrants have died in the cramped, fetid, poorly
ventilated containers after weeks at sea with limited food, water or sanitary
services.

Often the immigrants are promised legitimate jobs in the United States, but
instead are forced into virtual slavery by their handlers with no legal recourse
because of their illegal status.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 19, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sorrow and Liberties

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT;  E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 716 words


Anthony Romero's first day on the job as the new executive director of the
American Civil Liberties Union was Sept. 4, 2001. He was anxious to get started
as he strode into the A.C.L.U. headquarters at the lower tip of Manhattan. From
his 18th-floor office he had an amazing view of New York Harbor and,
appropriately, the Statue of Liberty.

"I had spent part of the summer looking back at the history of the A.C.L.U.," he
said. "And one of the things I looked at were the Palmer raids, which were right
after the First World War."

A. Mitchell Palmer was an unsuccessful Senate candidate who was appointed
attorney general by Woodrow Wilson in 1919. It was a tumultuous period, with the
rise of revolutionary movements overseas and tremendous social and political
upheaval in the U.S., including a series of bombings by suspected anarchists.

Palmer responded to the turmoil by leading a vicious and unprecedented campaign
against alleged radicals and dissidents. Government agents in dozens of cities
rounded up thousands of individuals, most of them immigrants. Many were
brutalized and held without charge. Hundreds of eastern Europeans were deported
without benefit of due process.

The Palmer raids (with a young J. Edgar Hoover as an important operative) would
ultimately be discredited by history. They were illegal, unconstitutional and
shameful. But at the time they had widespread support, so it took courage to
speak out against them.

Among those with the requisite courage was Roger Baldwin, who in 1918 had been a
founder of the National Civil Liberties Bureau. In 1920, in the heat of the
controversy over the Palmer raids, the bureau became the American Civil
Liberties Union.

Anthony Romero was immersed in that history when the awfulness of Sept. 11
occurred. And that history was on his mind when, amid the national sorrow and
the fear that followed the terror attacks, President Bush and his attorney
general, John Ashcroft, began elbowing the Constitution aside as they moved
aggressively to expand the powers of the executive branch.

Mr. Romero was in a difficult position. He understood the depth of the sorrow
and the fears. But he also understood, better than most, that both the strength
and the greatness of the United States were rooted in the nation's commitment to
freedom and the rule of law, and its remarkably successful system of
governmental checks and balances.

And so the A.C.L.U. -- sometimes in concert with other champions of civil
liberties (not all of them on the political left, by any means) -- has
challenged a series of initiatives by the executive branch. It has filed
lawsuits or otherwise objected to a variety of government policies, including
the secret detention of people suspected of violating immigration laws; the use
of material witness statutes as a form of preventive detention; and the refusal
to allow American citizens arrested as "enemy combatants" to see their lawyers
or challenge their detention before a civilian judge.

Mr. Romero and his colleagues have won preliminary victories in a number of
cases, although the rulings are still subject to appeal. It was an A.C.L.U.
lawsuit that led to a U.S. Court of Appeals ruling last month that the Bush
administration could not routinely conduct deportation hearings in secret.

"Democracies die behind closed doors," said Judge Damon Keith, who wrote the
opinion for the three-judge panel.

In another case in which the A.C.L.U. participated, a federal district judge in
Washington ruled that the names of detainees suspected of immigration violations
had to be made public. "Secret arrests," wrote Judge Gladys Kessler, "are a
concept odious to a democratic society."

Mr. Romero tries to avoid the abstract when he talks about the importance of
safeguarding civil liberties: "I just say that most Americans would think it's
wrong to hold people without charging them with a crime, and without letting
them see a lawyer, and to consider them guilty until they're proven innocent."

This latest campaign to uphold the rights enshrined in the Constitution has not
done the A.C.L.U. any harm. Memberships and contributions have gone way up since
Sept. 11, 2001. My guess is that for most Americans the sorrow and the fear have
not overwhelmed their devotion to freedom or their commitment to fairness.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

School District Blocks 5 Children of Illegal Immigrants From Classes

BYLINE:  By MARIA NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: FAIRVIEW, N.J. Sept. 20


On the first day of school here, five of the Medrano children woke up early,
scrubbed their faces and put on their new outfits, excited to begin a new year.

A day later, the children -- two pairs of siblings and a cousin -- were abruptly
ordered out of school before lunchtime by the district superintendent, who said
he had just discovered their parents were in this country illegally.

Now, three weeks into the new school year, the children are spending their days
at home here as their mothers -- two sisters and a niece -- agonize over how to
get them back into school.

The mothers, their lawyer and immigration experts said that school officials had
no right to ask a parent's immigration status, and that even if the family was
here illegally, the children had a constitutional right to a public education.

But David Verducci, the superintendent of the tiny Fairview school district in
Bergen County, said that when he learned that the mothers, who are from El
Salvador but are citizens of Canada, were here on expired tourist visas, he had
an obligation to turn them away.

"We do not go out looking within the school district to find people in this
situation so we can keep them out," Dr. Verducci said on Thursday. "But once it
came to our attention, to ignore it would have been a violation of the federal
rules."

Dr. Verducci said he was basing his decision on his interpretation of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service code. But Louis Zayas, the family's
lawyer, and other immigration experts said Dr. Verducci was in violation of a
1982 United States Supreme Court ruling that declared that the children of
illegal immigrants were entitled to a free public education.

"The immigrant status of the parents is entirely irrelevant," Mr. Zayas said.
"The law of the land says that children still have a right to a public education
as long as they live in Fairview. The superintendent was unauthorized to ask
about their legal status in the first place."

Education officials in Trenton seemed to agree with Mr. Zayas. This afternoon,
Judith Weiss, an assistant education commissioner, spoke with Dr. Verducci after
receiving an inquiry from The New York Times. In that conversation, she said, he
agreed to let the children back in school by Monday, while state officials
reviewed the basis for his decision.

"The superintendent is not supposed to ask about the immigrant status of the
family," Ms. Weiss said. Dr. Verducci did not return calls for comment today.

"All I wanted was for my children to go to school," Evudiges Medrano said today.
"I tell my children that education is like food, it is so important."

A few hours later, however, Ms. Medrano was upset again. After waiting for
official word from school administrators about her children's status, she called
the principal at one of the children's schools. The principal told her that she
could not let the children back in without written authorization from the
superintendent, which she had not received by the end of the school day.

Ms. Medrano's two children, Franklin, 13, and Kelly, 7, both attended Fairview
schools last year. So did her sister Flor's daughter, Ashley, 11. This year they
were to be joined by Flor's youngest, Brandon, who at 5 would be starting
kindergarten, and Evudiges and Flor Medrano's niece Norma's son, Jessie, 8.

Before school began, the schools had asked her for more documentation about one
child's immunizations, and further proof of residency for the two new children,
Ms. Medrano said. By the first day of school, thinking all was in order, she
took the children to school.

But she was then told that the superintendent wanted to meet with her and her
sister and niece at 9 a.m. on the second day of school. Dr. Verducci asked them
what their legal status was, Ms. Medrano said.

Lawyers with the American Civil Liberties Union's Immigrants' Rights Project
have also offered to represent the family. Lucas Guttentag, director of the
project, said they would like to find out if Dr. Verducci had tried to keep
other children out of his district by asking their parents about their
immigration status, which he said was illegal.

"The law is crystal clear on this," Mr. Guttentag said from California. "It's
shocking to hear when something like this happens, but every now and then you do
hear of a school official who seems not to be aware of their obligation to
educate all children, no matter what their immigrant status, and then they have
to be reminded."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Medrano family, whose children have been removed
from schools in Fairview, N.J., include, from left, Kelly, 7; Evudiges; Norma;
Ashley, 11; Franklin, 13; Brandon, 5; and Jessie, 8. Evudiges is the mother of
Kelly and Franklin, and Norma is Jessie's mother. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 22, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DEPORTED PALESTINIAN;
Lebanon Revokes Visa of Professor Ousted by U.S. in Wake of 9/11

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 368 words

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla., Sept. 21


A Palestinian professor deported from the United States after Sept. 11 for visa
violations and what prosecutors described as links to terrorism is apparently
without a country again.

The professor, Mazen Al-Najjar, a former University of South Florida engineering
instructor, was kicked out of Lebanon on Wednesday, his family said. He had been
dropped off there by American immigration authorities last month.

A six-month visa granted by Lebanon apparently was revoked after the Lebanese
government raised concerns about the United States dumping him there.

Mr. Al-Najjar's relatives said on Friday that they believed he was in Iran or an
unspecified African country. The Lebanese newspaper As-Safir reported on
Thursday that he had been taken to Iran.

Mr. Al-Najjar was held in jail for three and a half years based on secret
evidence that, the authorities said, he had helped terrorists through an Islamic
research center and charity he had set up with his brother-in-law, Sami
Al-Arian. He was released in 2000, then arrested again in November and deported
last month for overstaying a visa issued 20 years ago.

Mr. Al-Najjar was deported one day after the University of South Florida filed a
lawsuit seeking to fire Mr. Al-Arian because of what it said were his ties to
terrorism.

Both men have denied any connection to terrorists.

On Friday, Mr. Al-Najjar called his sister in Beirut to tell her he was safe,
but he would not say where he was because he did not want to jeopardize his
situation, Mr. Al-Arian said.

Mr. Al-Najjar was initially granted a two-week tourist visa by Bahrain, which
allowed the authorities to put him on a plane last month. But Bahrain balked,
causing the plane to be rerouted to Ireland and then Italy before Lebanon agreed
to issue him a sixth-month visa. Mr. Al-Najjar had planned to move to South
Africa eventually to take a teaching job, but the offer was rescinded.

"We certainly hope that the American public knows that what we were saying all
along has come to pass: he is a stateless Palestinian," Mr. Al-Arian said.

Mr. Al-Najjar and Mr. Al-Arian founded the World and Islam Studies Enterprises,
a now-defunct Islamic research center at the University of South Florida.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: It was uncertain what country had accepted Mazen Al-Najjar.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Than an Academic Exercise

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 412 words


The Sept. 11 hijackers, it was recently revealed, code-named the Pentagon "the
Faculty of Fine Arts" and the twin towers "the Faculty of Urban Planning." An
Internet message from one plotter spoke of "19 certificates for private study
and four exams," and ended, "Regards to the professor."

The idea that the terrorists of Al Qaeda hid behind a veil of studies is both
appalling and familiar. Who can forget the Iranian "students" of 1979 who held
our Tehran embassy hostage? But the fact that enemies sometimes assume the guise
of students should not be a signal to crack down on foreigners who genuinely
want to study here. New regulations aimed at improving the screening of visa
seekers have forced tens of thousands of foreigners already here to return home
and reapply for student visas. Many have been waiting months for permission to
come back.

The new policy requires that officials in Washington approve visas for every
male between the ages of 16 and 45 who is a native of any one of 26 countries.
This has led to a dramatic drop in the number of visa applications by genuine
students from Arab countries, and interminable delays for those who try to see
the process through. Most of these applicants are precisely the people who can
help combat militant Islam in their own countries.

There is no question that the Immigration and Naturalization Service has been
dysfunctional and that closer I.N.S. scrutiny of applicants and tracking of
foreigners by their host institutions are necessary. But the failure to halt the
Sept. 11 attack was one of intelligence, not visa processing. Since almost none
of the 19 hijackers had a history of terrorist activity, the new screening
process would not have stopped them.

Part of the problem right now is technical. The I.N.S. and the State Department
are rushing a new computer tracking program into operation, and it is taking
longer than hoped. But the larger misunderstanding about the role of foreign
students may persist after technical glitches are solved.

The fact that we educate many of the future leaders in countries around the
globe is among our strongest diplomatic assets. Our efforts to spread our
influence and understanding of our culture should be stepped up, not abandoned.
Higher education is one of the best methods we have of spreading the word about
who we are and of exposing our citizens to non-Americans. Bringing foreign
students onto our campuses is among the best favors we can do ourselves.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE VISITORS;
Photographs and Fingerprinting Of Saudis Will Soon Be Required

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 467 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23


A program that requires registration of foreign visitors from some countries in
the Middle East and North Africa is being expanded to include men from Saudi
Arabia, a United States ally that was home to 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service memorandum obtained by The Associated
Press directs immigration inspectors registering foreign visitors to include
men, ages 16 to 45, from Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Yemen, starting Oct. 1.

A spokesman at the Saudi Embassy did not immediately return calls.

The Justice Department had already begun registering visitors from Iran, Iraq,
Sudan and Libya on the anniversary of the terrorist attacks. As part of the
registration, the foreigners are required to provide fingerprints, photographs
and details about plans in the United States.

In a Sept. 5 memorandum adding Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and Yemen to the list,
Johnny Williams, the immigration agency's head of field operations, said, "It is
imperative that the officers remain vigilant and verify the age of all males
from these three countries in order to identify properly those who are subject
to special registration."

The memorandum was sent to agency offices to explain how to carry out the
Justice Department policy known as the National Security Entry-Exit Registration
System. Officials from the department did not immediately return a telephone
call for comment.

Registration is required on arrival in the United States or departure. The
foreigners must also be interviewed at an immigration office for stays of more
than 30 days and notify the agency within 10 days of any change of residence,
employment or academic institution.

The memorandum says inspectors can also register visitors for national security
reasons who they determine are worth monitoring. The memorandum says inspectors
should consider whether the visitor has made an unexplained trip to Iran, Iraq,
Libya, Sudan, Syria, North Korea, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, Afghanistan, Yemen, Egypt,
Somalia, Pakistan, Indonesia or Malaysia, as well as whether the visitor's
explanation for the trip lacks credibility.

Among other things, inspectors will be told to consider registering foreign
visitors who previously overstayed a visa or whose behavior, demeanor or answers
indicates that the person may be a security threat, the memorandum says.

The additional scrutiny for Saudi nationals follows introduction of stricter
rules for Saudis who apply for visas to the United States. The visa paperwork
formerly handled by travel agents now requires interviews at consular offices.

The increased scrutiny comes as President Bush tries to build support for an
attack on Iraq, for which Saudi Arabia has said it will not allow use of its
territory unless the attack is under auspices of the United Nations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: FOREIGN STUDENTS;
Lawmakers Warned of Delay In System to Track Students

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 369 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


If a new government system for tracking foreign students is not in operation by
early next year, as required by Congress, up to 80,000 students could be
stranded waiting for permission to enter the United States, an education group
said today.

The $37 million system, called Sevis, is expected to be in use by Jan. 30, with
about 1,000 colleges and universities providing detailed information on foreign
students who want to attend class, an official with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service told a House subcommittee.

Congress had asked the immigration service to have the system working by then.
But David Ward, the president of the American Council on Education, which
represents colleges and universities, said at a joint meeting of two House
Education subcommittees that he was skeptical that college employees would be
trained in time on the Internet-based system.

He also said colleges had not been told how they would obtain software that
would work with their enrollment systems.

New foreign students would not be permitted to enter the country if a school
failed to register them in Sevis. That could create a logjam of students who
were qualified to enter the country and study but whose colleges could not send
their information to the government, Mr. Ward said.

In an interview after the hearing, he said up to 80,000 of an estimated 500,000
foreign students could be affected.

During the hearing, the deputy commissioner of the immigration service, Janis
Sposato, acknowledged, "The training may not be as full and complete as we would
like it to be." Ms. Sposato added that the system "will be working, and working
well, but there's always more to do."

Last week, the inspector general of the Justice Department, Glenn Fine, told a
House Judiciary subcommittee that the immigration service would miss the Jan. 30
deadline for the tracking system. On Tuesday, Mr. Fine said he believed the
system would be operational but not fully implemented.

Under Sevis, colleges would supply detailed information on their foreign
students, as would the State Department and Justice Department. This would make
it easier to track students, revoke their visas and presumably deport them if
they dropped out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 26, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Southwest: Texas: Immigration Agents Indicted

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 77 words


Three federal immigration agents have been indicted in Houston for their roles
in a New Braunfels raid that led to the death of a 47-year-old Mexican. The
three -- Carlos Reyna, Richard Henry Gonzales and Louis Rey Gomez -- are accused
of violating Serafin Olvera-Carrera's civil rights after a beating left him
paralyzed. Mr. Olvera-Carrera died about a year after the March 25, 2001, raid,
in which he suffered a broken neck and was doused with pepper spray.





URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 2, 2002 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Families Are Courted To Revive Canada's Hinterland

BYLINE:   By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

DATELINE: STEINBACH, Manitoba


Lidia Tschritter comes to the door barefoot to meet her nine children as they
return home from school. Her hair is tied in a kerchief and she wears a homemade
flower-print dress that reaches her ankles just as she did in her native
Mennonite village in Kazakhstan.

The front yard of her six-bedroom house has a trampoline for the children next
to a sumptuous fruit and vegetable garden. Her husband, David, a carpenter who
makes patio doors in a local window factory, will be home any minute to care for
the family's barn full of animals.

"Canada is wonderful!" exclaimed Mrs. Tschritter, 39, in her archaic German
dialect. "We can buy everything we need, worship as we wish, and it's nice and
peaceful." This is the snapshot the Canadian government hopes to duplicate
thousands of times over as it embarks on a new immigration policy designed to
attract young, preferably large foreign families to rural Canada. The goal is to
send one million immigrants into the hinterlands over the next decade by
matching workers with remote businesses and farms that are starved for skilled
labor, and to spread Canada's multiethnic rainbow across the country's vast
prairies, tundras and forests.

Officials hope to remold an immigration policy that has turned Toronto,
Vancouver and Montreal into three of the most ethnically diverse cities in the
world to distribute the labor riches of places like China, India and Ethiopia
more equally.

With Canada's population of 30 million aging and its birthrate plummeting --
Canadian women currently have 1.49 children on average -- the government says
that it, like some European countries, must rely on increasing immigration to
ward off a population decline. But with the populations of Newfoundland falling
by 7 percent between the 1996 and 2001 censuses, Yukon by 6.8 percent, Northwest
Territories by 5.8 percent, New Brunswick by 1.2 percent and Saskatchewan by 1.1
percent, populations in some rural areas are already in calamitous decline.

"We need to create more magnets for immigration everywhere," said the minister
for citizenship and immigration, Denis Codere, in an interview. "It's a matter
of population growth, labor supply, quality of life, the very future of our
country."

Not only is the centuries-old dream of populating Canada's vastness at stake.
The solvency of national health care, and educational and housing programs that
are financed by provincial tax bases, which are shrinking, may also hang in the
balance. Enormous stretches in the prairies are suffering a slow death from cuts
in farm subsidies, shrinking agricultural profit margins and drought. The
decline of the farm economy has throttled businesses and propelled young people
to take their skills and ambitions to large cities or to the United States.

Along the frigid Atlantic coast, a depletion of fish stocks has converted entire
fishing communities into ghost towns.

Looking to immigration to meet its needs is not new for Canada. Few
industrialized countries have so consistently used immigration as a tool for
nation building. Canada populated its vast west in the 19th century by handing
out land to European immigrants, much as its southern neighbor did. Today
Canada's per capita immigration rate is twice that of the United States, and
about 17 percent of the population is foreign born.

Canadian authorities, noting negative demographic trends 25 years ago, opened
Canada's doors to people from the Caribbean, Asia and Africa. But the new
arrivals cluster in a few cities -- 53 percent of the 250,000 who arrive every
year settle in Toronto,15 percent in Vancouver and 13 percent in Montreal.

Now, though, the earnings for new immigrants are declining in saturated labor
markets, strains have been put on services and urban neighborhoods and schools
are growing increasingly segregated. The imbalance also threatens to produce a
balkanized Canada, with three metropolitan areas becoming increasingly distinct
from the rest of the country.

"We just don't know how a Toronto of the future, which is 60 percent nonwhite
with 110 different ethnic groups and languages, is going to relate to the rest
of Canada," said Larry S. Bourne, a geography professor at the University of
Toronto.

Manitoba played a leading role in changing immigration policy when it developed
a successful program four years ago to attract several thousand skilled
immigrants, using advertising and contacts with community leaders. It used
communities already there to attract German-speaking Mennonites, Argentine Jews,
Filipinos and Bosnians.

"For rural areas if we're not in the process of growing, we're in the process of
dying," said the Manitoba premier, Gary A. Doer, in an interview. "So what we
need is a targeted immigration policy."

Eight other provinces and territories have begun similar efforts to find skilled
workers. Federal authorities then fast-track the provincial nominees through
health and security checks.

New Brunswick, for instance, is looking for affluent students from China and
Hong Kong, who local officials hope will coalesce into their own community and
perhaps attract their families. Saskatchewan is looking to Korea and Ukraine to
bring experienced farmhands to its hog barns. Mr. Codere has embraced the
efforts and will unveil a new federal policy in mid-October that would grant
thousands of immigrants three- to five-year work permits under the proviso that
they live in rural communities.

If they comply, they will be automatically granted permanent resident status,
with the right to apply for citizenship after another three years. By then,
officials hope they will have planted roots in the small towns and will stay.

Mr. Codere will also propose ways to quicken retraining and licensing for
foreign engineers, teachers and medical professionals seeking work in rural
communities.

Skeptics say immigrants will continue to gravitate to cities and some question
the constitutionality of limiting people's freedom to move around. Furthermore,
they say, not every province is able to build on ethnic populations already
present the way Manitoba can.

But at Loewen Windows here in Steinbach, founded a century ago by the son of
Russian Mennonites, the owners turned to Mennonites as they sought 150 new
workers. Originally from Germany, the Mennonites have a 200-year history in
Russia and Kazakhstan. Stalin resettled thousands of ethnic Germans from the
Volga region to Kazakhstan after Hitler attacked the Soviet Union in 1941, and
later they were encouraged to stay there for the same reason that Canada is
seeking them as settlers today.

The newcomers here speak German, and little English, but communication is aided
by the fact that many of their supervisors, older Mennonites, speak at least
some German, learned from their grandparents.

The housing boom in the United States had propelled the company's sales, and
Loewen needed more skilled workers. "I could have put a plant in Georgia,
Mexico, Malaysia or China," said Charles Loewen, the chief executive officer,
"but we prefer to grow here and immigration helped us hugely."

In nearby Winnipeg, the 15,000-member Jewish population has helped attract Jews
from economically depressed Argentina by sending delegations, helping with job
interviews and English lessons and making sure prospective immigrants have a
Friday night Sabbath dinner during exploratory visits.

The 35 Argentine families who have arrived over the last year have given the
Jewish community here renewed confidence it can survive, and hundreds more have
expressed interest in coming.

Martin Wayngenten, 30, an accountant, remembered when his rabbi in the city of
Parana took him aside and asked him to consider moving to Winnipeg. The rabbi
suggested that he and his wife Agustina, 29, a biomedical engineer, would be
welcomed with open arms.

"We took out a map and looked up Winnipeg," Agustina Wayngenten recalled. Her
husband chimed in, "When you don't have a job, you don't worry about the
weather."

They have found jobs, are saving for a house and are expecting their first baby.
"I am going to speak to my child in Spanish," Agustina said, smiling, "but he'll
be a Canadian."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2002



CORRECTION: A map yesterday with an article about a new Canadian immigration
policy that encourages foreign families to settle in rural areas located
Vancouver erroneously. The city is on the Canadian mainland, not on Vancouver
Island.





GRAPHIC: Photo: Lidia Tschritter, with seven of her nine children, is a
Mennonite who emigrated from Kazakhstan to rural Canada, which favors big
families. (Ruth Bonneville for The New York Times)(pg. A6) Chart/Map: "Open
Door"Canadian officials are encouraging immigrants to settle in rural areas to
boost the waning population. Origin of Immigrant Population 1996 Europe:
47%Asia: 31Central and South America: 11United States: 5Africa: 5Other: 1
(Source: Statistics Canada)(pg. A6) Map of Canada shows origin of immigrant
population. (pg. A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 5, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Husband of a 9/11 Victim Is Told He'll Be Deported

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 676 words

DATELINE: LEWISBORO, N.Y., Oct. 4


When Vasiliy V. Ryjov lost his wife, Tatiana, in the World Trade Center attack,
he was comforted by the knowledge that she would be honored in the country where
they had struggled for so many years to build a life.

But now Mr. Ryjov, 38, an illegal immigrant, is facing deportation back to his
native Georgia, a former Soviet republic. Last month, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service rejected his application for permanent residency, saying
he had falsely claimed to be married to another woman, Dora Tobias, in 1993.

Mr. Ryjov says that he did not know about the fake marriage -- that indeed, he
does not even know who the woman is -- and that those papers were submitted on
his behalf by a man claiming to be an immigration lawyer. That man disappeared
years ago, he says, without leaving a forwarding address or a phone number.

He says he learned about the fake marriage papers from his current lawyer only a
few weeks after his wife's death last year, while he was trying to recover her
remains and take care of their two sons: Alex, 15, and Daniel, 9.

"I remember I was in shock after Sept. 11, and then this shock came second," he
said during an interview today in the kitchen of his modest ranch house in this
northern Westchester County suburb. "It almost totally destroyed me."

Mr. Ryjov's lawyer, Michael J. Wildes, has appealed the federal decision, and
said he was told today that the I.N.S. director in New York would personally
review the case. In the meantime, Mr. Ryjov has been telling his story to the
news media this week, and gaining the sympathy and support of politicians,
diplomats and perfect strangers, including one woman, a Wall Street executive,
who offered to marry him on the spot, according to Mr. Wildes.

"He was thrust into being both mother and father on Sept. 11," Mr. Wildes said.
"Everything has changed. At this point in his life, he should not be dealing
with lawyers and bureaucrats."

Amy Otten, a spokeswoman for the I.N.S. in the Eastern region, said she could
not comment on Mr. Ryjov's case because her office was still trying to verify
information about it. Immigration officials in the New York City office did not
respond to phone messages this afternoon.

Mr. Ryjov, who was trained as an engineer, met his future wife, Tatiana, on a
ferry in Russia in 1985, while they were both still in college. He was instantly
smitten.

"Something hit me in the head," he said. "When she was trying to give me her
phone number, I had to run and get a pen. I couldn't just memorize it; I was too
nervous."

They married and soon had their first son. But life was hard for them in
ethnically divided Georgia, and in 1989, Mrs. Ryjova, a college instructor, came
to New York with their son to work as a translator, and never returned.

Mr. Ryjov says that K.G.B. officials later forced him to divorce his wife, but
he never stopped trying to find a way to emigrate. In 1991, Mrs. Ryjova helped
to get him a tourist visa and he was able to leave. They moved to northern
Westchester, remarried and later had another son.

Mr. Ryjov says he tried unsuccessfully to apply for political asylum, and in
1993 he paid $4,000 to an immigration lawyer in Manhattan. Mr. Ryjov, who could
not read English at the time, says he signed papers but does not remember any
regarding a fake marriage. He says he received a work permit, and started
working in construction.

He says that even after his work permit expired, he was never contacted by an
immigration official. "I wasn't hiding from the government at all," he said. "I
was paying taxes, buying a house, raising a family. If I knew I did something
wrong, I would be staying low, wouldn't I?"

Mrs. Ryjova, a computer specialist, applied for permanent residency in 1996 and
also applied to a visa lottery program run by the immigration service. Just four
months before the World Trade Center attack, her name was among those picked for
green cards in the lottery.

"She won the lottery -- you know how rare that is?" Mr. Wildes said. "And then
she was so unlucky that she was chosen to die."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vasiliy V. Ryjov at home with his younger son, Daniel, 9. Mr.
Ryjov's wife, Tatiana, won the right to a green card only four months before she
was killed in the attack on the World Trade Center. Now the immigration service
has said that Mr. Ryjov will be deported. (James Estrin/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 6, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

BENEFITS

BYLINE:  E-mail: society@nytimes.com, Information: (212) 556-1141

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 893 words


Hamill on Immigration
TUESDAY -- Pete Hamill, the reporter and author, will speak about immigration's
effect on society at a black-tie dinner at the Grand Hyatt New York. The evening
will raise money for the English-language training and American culture programs
for immigrants, refugees, students and other newcomers to the United States
offered by the International Center in New York. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed
by dinner at 7:30 and the talk. Tickets, $500, from (212) 355-6363.

Immunological Aid
TUESDAY -- A black-tie dinner at the Pierre will raise money for research
fellowships of the Irvington Institute for Immunological Research. The evening
begins at 6:30 with drinks. Dinner will follow at 7:30, with dancing to the Hank
Lane Orchestra. Tickets, $1,000, or $250 for those 35 and under, from (212)
576-1005.


Questions of Justice
WEDNESDAY -- A performance of "The Exonerated" with Richard Dreyfuss, at the
Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street (Lafayette Street), will raise money for the
Fortune Society, which provides services to former prisoners and works to
increase public awareness of criminal justice issues. The evening begins with
drinks at 6:30, with the play at 7:15. Dinner will follow at approximately 9:15
at B Bar and Grill, 40 East Fourth Street (Lafayette Street). Tickets, $350, or
$150 for the performance alone, from (212) 691-7554, ext. 525.

Help for the Retarded
THURSDAY -- A dinner at the New York Marriott Marquis will raise money for the
social service programs for adults and children provided by the Association for
the Help of Retarded Children. The evening begins at 6 with drinks, with dinner
at 7 and dancing to the music of Valerie Romanoff's Starlight Orchestra.
Tickets, $750, from (212) 888-7003.

Children at Risk
THURSDAY -- A black-tie dinner at Pier 60, Chelsea Piers, will raise money for
the New York Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, which provides
legal and mental health services, education, trauma recovery and other programs
to children and their families. Drinks at 7 will be followed by dinner at 8.
Tickets, $600, from (212) 245-6570.

Easier on the Eyes
THURSDAY -- A black-tie dinner at the University Club, 1 West 54th Street, will
raise money for research, treatment and instruction at the ophthalmology
department of the State University Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. Drinks
at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $500, from (212) 675-9474.

For Asian-American Arts
FRIDAY -- A preview performance of David Henry Hwang's version of "Flower Drum
Song" at the Virginia Theater, 245 West 52nd Street (Eighth Avenue), will raise
money for the Asian American Arts Alliance. The evening begins with dinner at
5:30 at Cinnabar, 235 West 52nd Street (Eighth Avenue), with the show to begin
at 8. A cocktail party with the cast and Mr. Hwang will begin about 10:30 at
Remi Restaurant, 145 West 53rd Street (Avenue of the Americas). Tickets, $250,
from (212) 941-9208.

Saving Minds
FRIDAY -- The makers of "A Beautiful Mind" will be among those honored at a
black-tie dinner at the Pierre to raise money for the National Alliance for
Research on Schizophrenia and Depression. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed by
dinner at 7:30 and the awards. Tickets, $600, from (516) 829-0091.

Art for Art Education
OCT. 14 -- A silent auction of artworks by Louise Bourgeois, Yoko Ono, Francoise
Gilot, Will Barnet and others, and a dinner at the New York Studio School of
Drawing, Painting and Sculpture, 8 West Eighth Street (Fifth Avenue), will raise
money for the school's programs, including lectures and exhibitions that are
free and open to the public. Gertrude Whitney Conner, an artist and
philanthropist, and Leo Steinberg, the art historian and critic, will be
honored. Drinks at 7 and dinner at 8:15 will be followed by an after-party at
9:30. Tickets, $500, or $125 for the cocktail reception or $75 for the
after-party alone, from (212) 673-6466, ext. 115.

A Royal Norwegian Party
OCT. 15 -- King Harald V and Queen Sonja of Norway will preside at a black-tie
dinner at the New York Grand Hyatt to raise money for the American-Scandinavian
Foundation, which promotes international understanding and cultural exchange
between the United States and the Scandinavian countries. Drinks at 7 will be
followed by dinner and dancing at 8. Tickets, $500, from (212) 725-7139.

Fall Ballet Opening
OCT. 15 -- The opening night of American Ballet Theater's fall season at City
Center, which runs through Oct. 27, will include excerpts from "A Tribute to
George Harrison" and a performance of Jerome Robbins's "Fancy Free" to raise
money for the ballet and its performances and educational programs. The evening
begins with the performances at 7, with dinner to follow, at approximately 9, at
the University Club, 1 West 54th Street. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 477-3030,
ext. 3239, or $40 and up for the performance alone, from (212) 581-1212.

A Chinese Legacy
OCT. 15 -- A black-tie dinner at the Regent Wall Street will raise money for the
China Institute in America, which offers public programs and language and
civilization courses to promote understanding of China's history and culture.
The legacy of the late Elisabeth Luce Moore, a longtime trustee of the
organization, will be celebrated. Drinks at 7 will be followed by dinner and
dancing at 8. Tickets, $600, from (212) 972-2268.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 6, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

COMMUNITIES;
In Millburn, The Accent Is Russian

BYLINE:  By GEORGE JAMES

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: MILLBURN


ON a third-floor window of a corner building, high above the thrum of Audis and
Jaguars cruising the length of Millburn Avenue, is a painted silhouette of a
couple and the words Royal Ballroom.

Yet Alex and Tanya Koulik, Russian immigrants who opened the studio here four
years ago -- one of four that they own -- are among a large influx of Russians
who have immigrated to this affluent pocket of Essex County over the last 20
years.

That surge has given this township of 19,765 the distinction -- along with Fair
Lawn in Bergen County -- of having the highest percentage of residents of
Russian descent in the state at 11.7 percent. By comparison, only 2.3 percent of
New Jersey's 8.4 million residents are Russian.

Just why so many new -- and not particularly wealthy -- immigrants would feel
comfortable in one of the most exclusive towns in North Jersey, where the median
household income is $130,848 and housing prices often begin at a half-million
dollars, has to do with more than just the tango.

"I don't know what most Russians will tell you why they live in this community,"
said Mr. Koulik, a lithe man of 44, "but I believe the major reason is the
schools."

The Kouliks say they moved to an apartment in Short Hills in 1997, five years
after coming to this country, because they wanted their son, Vitali, now 21 and
a four-time ballroom dancing champion, to attend Millburn High School, ranked
among the top public schools in the country. So did the families of two of the
Kouliks' students, Michael Lubavin and Yelena Vaynshteyn.

"For us, the main attraction was the school system, especially the Millburn High
School," said Mr. Lubavin, a 19-year-old sophomore at Columbia University.

As for Ms. Vaynshteyn, 24, a dental student at the University of Medicine and
Dentistry of New Jersey, she said her mother moved to Short Hills 11 years ago
from Brooklyn because of the school system.

Keith Neigel, the principal at the high school, said in an interview that while
the number of Russian students reached a peak in the mid-1990's, 27 of the
school's 1,073 students still spoke Russian at home.

"Many Russians are highly educated and left good jobs, Mr. Neigel said, "and
although it took time for them to get similar positions in the United States,
they have moved up the economic ladder quickly."

For instance, Mr. Lubavin's father eventually found work as an engineer in
Springfield. Ms. Vaynshteyn's father and mother, dentists in Russia, now
practice in Brooklyn.

And while the Kouliks were always light on their feet, dancing was not always
their day job. In Moscow, Mr. Koulik was a neurosurgeon and his wife a
university English teacher, professions they could not practice when they first
arrived in America. Dance champions in Europe, they turned to ballroom dancing,
first as instructors in Verona and later opening their own.

The first wave of Russian immigrants came in the early 1980's after the Soviet
Union began easing Jewish immigration, the second in 1989 as it dissolved.

In northern New Jersey, the first stop for Soviet Jews was often Newark, said
Rabbi Mendel Bogomilsky of the Chai Center for Living Judaism, an Orthodox
congregation here. Many settled in a sprawling apartment complex in the Ivy Hill
section, where his father, Samuel, the spiritual leader of Mount Sinai Temple,
helped get them services, Rabbi Bogomilsky said.

In addition, the Jewish Counseling and Service Agency, now known as the Jewish
Family Service of Metro West, helped resettle many Soviet immigrants in the
early 1980's, and one of its busiest offices was in Millburn. In the second
wave, the agency resettled nearly 3,000, said Sheila Muster, the agency's
director of operations.

"Those first people that came started working and as they prospered they moved
to places like Springfield, West Orange, and Millburn-Short Hills," Ms. Muster
said. As a result, the surrounding towns also have large percentages of
Russians: West Orange, (5.8 percent) Livingston (9.8 percent) and Springfield
(10.3 percent.)

Rabbi Steven Bayar of Congregation B'nai Israel, a Conservative congregation
here and one of many in the area that offered a support network for the
newcomers, said many Russian families rented apartments in Millburn before they
had enough saved to buy a house.

"We know families would move out of Millburn as soon as the kids were old
enough, Rabbi Bayar said, "because they didn't need the high school anymore" --
nor the high cost of living.

Mr. Lubavin said when his family arrived in America nine years ago, an uncle in
Livingston helped them to settle in a garden apartment complex across from the
high school here along with many other Russians. To help make ends meet, his
mother earned a degree from Kean University and found work as an accountant.
Soon the family was able to buy a house in neighboring Springfield as Michael
was finishing middle school here.

"The housing in Springfield was cheaper, and we wanted to buy a house," said Mr.
Lubavin.

Like the Lubavins, the Kouliks also found it more expedient to leave their small
apartment in Short Hills for larger quarters in Springfield. "Vitali already
graduated and we needed a little bigger place," Mr. Koulik explained.

These days, Ms. Vaynshteyn and her fiance can be seen gliding across the blond
wooden floor of the Royal Ballroom as they try to master dance steps for their
wedding reception in six months.

"We wanted a nice first dance," said Ms. Vaynshteyn. "Tanya is a great
instructor, and she's very smiley and she's very encouraging. We need a lot of
encouragement."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alex Koulik was a neurosurgeon in Russia, and now runs a dance
studio in Millburn. He dances with Pat Gabriel. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 7, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Neighborhood Clinic Helps Fill the Gap for Latinos Without Health Care

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1129 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6


MariBel Garcia lives near several good doctor's offices and hospitals, but as
far as she is concerned they might as well not be there at all. Her
housecleaning and restaurant jobs have never provided health insurance. Few
local facilities have Spanish-speaking staff members. Even making an
appointment, given her limited English skills, is a daunting, often humiliating,
experience.

"They don't understand my language, my culture, my issues," said Ms. Garcia, 40,
who came to the United States from El Salvador 15 years ago and is now a legal
resident. "I would rather wait and see a doctor on a visit to El Salvador than
go through that difficulty."

Although Ms. Garcia recently got insurance through a new city program for the
poor, she prefers to rely solely on La Clinica del Pueblo, a scrappy but
welcoming neighborhood clinic in the heart of Washington's Latino community that
operates primarily in Spanish and treats anyone regardless of legal status or
ability to pay.

In Latino enclaves nationwide, facilities like La Clinica are filling gaps in
the health care system that sometimes leave Hispanics feeling shut out. The
number of Americans without health insurance rose significantly last year, new
census figures show, to 14.6 percent. An estimated 30 to 37 percent of Hispanics
living in the United States are uninsured, the figures indicate, the largest
percentage of any ethnic group.

For immigrant communities in particular, neighborhood clinics address a number
of barriers to health care. The majority of Latinos who are uninsured are
working poor, juggling part-time jobs that do not provide benefits. Those in
poverty are often barred from aid as a result of 1996 welfare changes, which cut
access for new immigrants to programs like Medicaid and the Children's Health
Insurance Program.

Some forms of public assistance have been reinstated since 1996, and additional
restorations, such as the Immigrant Children's Health Improvement Act, are
pending before the Senate. But figuring out who qualifies for assistance in
immigrant families, which often have members of varying legal status, is
difficult.

Many of those who qualify for aid are afraid to apply, fearful that being
perceived as a burden on society will hurt their residency or citizenship
applications.

Ms. Garcia had all of those concerns when she first used the Washington clinic
more than 10 years ago. "I don't know what we'd do without La Clinica," said Ms.
Garcia, whose entire family has used the clinic for everything from routine
checkups to emergency care.

Housed in an old Presbyterian church turned multipurpose community center a few
miles north of the White House, La Clinica del Pueblo is not known by many
outside the neighborhood.

But ask nearly any neighborhood resident and he or she will automatically point
the way -- past the street vendors selling fresh sliced mangoes, through the
double doors papered with colorful fliers, up the dimly lighted stairway -- to
the main reception area abuzz with activity.

Started with a volunteer doctor in 1983 to serve the influx of Central Americans
into Washington, La Clinica initially was open only on Tuesday nights. Today,
with a $4 million operating budget provided by the city and federal governments
and by private donors, the clinic operates full time with 46 staff members and
more than 100 volunteers, all of whom speak more than one language. Of the
roughly 500 patients who file in and out each week more than 90 percent are
uninsured.

"We've always had to come through the back door of the health system," said Dr.
Juan Romagoza, La Clinica's executive director. "So here we open the door as
wide as possible."

Government and mainstream health care institutions are becoming more
appreciative of community facilities like La Clinica. Chronic illnesses like
heart disease and diabetes are increasing rapidly among Latinos, as are socially
transmitted diseases like H.I.V. and hepatitis. Poor access to primary care,
health care officials realize, will result in greater long-term costs to the
system.

In August, President Bush announced a plan to pay for 1,200 new community health
care centers over the next five years.

"It's fundamental to the entire health system, and to the economy, to improve
the health status of Hispanics in the U.S.," said Dr. Elena Rios, president of
the National Hispanic Medical Association, a Washington-based organization of
Hispanic doctors.

One of the programs being expanded by La Clinica and other centers is the
"promotores de salud" or "health promoter" program. The program trains community
members to be lay health workers who circulate through neighborhoods espousing
the benefits of healthy habits and preventative care.

The centerpiece of La Clinica's promotores program is "Domingos saludables" or
"healthy Sundays." The once-a-month health fair, usually held at neighborhood
churches, offers free blood pressure, glucose and cholesterol testing, nutrition
and exercise guidance and counseling on substance abuse, mental health care and
H.I.V. prevention.

Rebeca Munoz, a dental assistant who stocked hospital supply rooms in her native
El Salvador before coming to the United States in 1994, works several nights a
week as a promotora in H.I.V./AIDS prevention.

"It's not like doctor and patient," said Ms. Munoz, 49, a soft-spoken wife and
mother of four who spends hours at self-service laundries, parks and bus stops
talking to people about safe sex and intravenous drug use. "We respect the
people, and they respect us. Everyone is just talking in Spanish, and soon
people are not afraid. It's like family."

Similar health promoter programs operate in other cities, including Chicago, El
Paso and Providence, R.I.

"We've seen that these people have enormous credibility in their communities,"
said Yanira Cruz, director of the Institute for Hispanic Health at the National
Council of La Raza, a Hispanic advocacy agency that is helping La Clinica pay
for a new promotores position dedicated to diabetes.

In April, La Clinica received a $900,000 grant from the District of Columbia
Department of Housing and Community Development to renovate a 12,000-square-foot
facility a few blocks from the existing clinic. Dr. Romagoza is thrilled, but he
says the growing support given to clinics such as his does not lessen the need
for federal and state agencies and local hospitals and doctors to better serve
changing populations.

MariBel Garcia could not agree more. She hopes to become a citizen, and, she
adds, she intends to vote.

"The politicians, the leaders, they want to ignore us," she said. "They think
they can speak a slogan in Spanish and this is enough -- but it is not enough
for me. They have to pay attention to our issues." In the meantime, La Clinica,
she knows, is there.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: La Clinica del Pueblo in Washington treats anyone regardless of
legal status or ability to pay. MariBel Garcia, foreground above, her daughter
Miriam Garcia and her granddaughter Jasmine Orellana are patients. (Photographs
by Susana Raab for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Report Finds Lapses in Program To Deport Criminal Immigrants

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 7


The Immigration and Naturalization Service fails to identify and deport criminal
immigrants in a timely fashion, costing millions in unnecessary detention
expenses and keeping immigrants in custody beyond their legal sentences,
according to an audit released today by the inspector general of the Department
of Justice.

Under a program set up in 1988, immigration officials are required to identify
criminals in federal, state or local custody who are eligible for deportation,
and process them so they may be immediately repatriated after serving their
terms.

But the audit found that the immigration agency was so burdened by competing
priorities, staffing shortages and a growing caseload that it did not even know
how many foreign-born inmates there were nationwide, especially when it came to
those held by local authorities.

"We found that the I.N.S. has not effectively managed" the program, which is
known as the Institutional Removal Program, said the inspector general, Glen A.
Fine.

Failure to deport immigrants immediately is costly, auditors found.

In a sample of 151 cases from high-immigrant counties in California and Florida,
the auditors attributed $1.1 million in unnecessary expenses to this problem.
With an estimated average daily population of more than 10,000 criminal
immigrants nationwide, the immigration service is wasting millions of dollars a
year, auditors said. The total cost of holding deportable inmates in detention
could be as much as $200 million a year, they said.

Bill Strassberger, an immigration agency spokesman, said officials were taking
steps to make the program more effective. The goal, Mr. Strassberger said, is to
save money by handling the administrative and legal paperwork while the inmate
is still serving his sentence.

"When we do that, everybody wins," he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Where Biking Blossomed, Now the Wheels Come Off

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Oct. 2


In this, the land where the automobile is king, at the busiest human crossroads
in the world, the lowly bicycle had a brief moment of glory. For a time, two
wheels were faster than four.

This was in the days and months after Sept. 11, when border agents were checking
every trunk and lifting every hood, and the inspection lines for cars were three
hours long. The pedestrian lines were no shorter, since they had swelled with
people who had gotten out of their cars.

But people in the bike lane breezed through. Word got out. A bike rental
business bloomed.

It didn't last. Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service shut
down the outdoor bike lane in midsummer, saying they were afraid that the 3,000
commuters from Mexico using it -- among them housekeepers, schoolchildren and
even some people in wheelchairs -- were a danger to themselves as they slipped
out of the lane to weave in and out of the lines of idling cars.

As a result, local lawmakers are boiling, a group of border entrepreneurs are
broke, and again it is left to the Mexican workers to suck it up and rise five
hours before the workday begins to beat the rush.

On any given day, about 50,000 people with legitimate working papers commute
from Mexico, where the rents are cheap, to San Diego, where the rents are not.
They come to clean toilets, lay bricks and clip hedges. Their workday begins
when the sky is still purple.

Gonzalo Contreras is one of them. Mr. Contreras, a lugubrious, heavy-eyed man,
slept until 5 a.m. when the bike lane was open and he could clear customs in 30
minutes. These days, he rises at 3 to beat the foot rush.

He takes the $2.25 trolley from the border to central San Diego, where he
loiters for an hour before going to his $10-an-hour job separating municipal
filth from recyclables.

"There's a lot of tension in the lines," he said. "They check through all your
papers and put your name in the computer. Before, the bikes went freely. They
stopped doing that, and now I get four hours' sleep."

When they shut the bike lane, which was roughly a foot wide and skirted auto
traffic, immigration officials promised to look into a more functional permanent
one. A study commissioned by the immigration service showed that one could be
built for about $500,000, but no government agency wants to pay for it.

"It's just not cost-effective, I suppose," said William B. Ward, port director
of the border crossing.

The local congressman, Bob Filner, sees bureaucracy at its worst. "The whole
thing is a joke," he said. "They found a way to get 3,000 people out of their
cars, and they say, 'Hey, we better get rid of this.' "

The total northbound movement through the crossing here is now 55 million people
a year, not only workers but also children who go to school in the United
States, Mexican shoppers who pump more than $3 billion into the economy of San
Diego County and American tourists returning home. Yet no new capacity has been
added at the border since the 1970's.

"The inefficiency is mind-boggling," Congressman Filner said. "You don't know if
it's going to take three hours or 10 minutes to cross. The flow of people is
irreversible. Most of America doesn't understand it, they fear it, and there is
no will to fix it."

The lines have improved somewhat since federal agents stopped searching every
trunk and hood, and pedestrians have gone back to their automobiles. But the
waits are still long, sometimes two hours by car or foot or bike, commuters say.
With bike traffic folded into foot traffic, the advantage of riding or renting a
bike is gone.

And so the arbitrage opportunity has evaporated for Anell Gonzalo.

Mr. Gonzalo rented bikes for $5 on the Mexican side of the border and retrieved
them on the American side. He made outrageous money, and is proud of it.

"Nothing but a good deed done," he said. "Helping my fellow man."

Mr. Gonzalo expanded his company, Border Bikes, to 200 bicycles and 17
employees. In addition, four competitors quickly jumped in. At any one time,
there were a thousand rent-a-bikes rolling through traffic.

Now Mr. Gonzalo sleeps late. Business is off 70 percent since its peak in June,
he said. Worse, he is stuck with 200 bicycles. Since there is nothing to be
gained by renting a bike for an hour's wage, Border Bikes is just another small
business staggering in these wobbly economic times. The others have gone
bankrupt, he said.

Still, Mr. Gonzalo encourages bullish Wall Street types looking for investment
opportunity on the border to give him a call.

In the meantime, he is philosophical about his sinking fortunes and the fortunes
of the Mexican commuter.

"Mine was a moment in time," he said. "But the uneducated Mexican, he will keep
coming. If he can find a job cleaning a toilet in San Diego, then he will live
like a king in Tijuana."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: This is what border-crossing commuters to San Diego were trying
to avoid when many of them took to bicycles after Sept. 11 last year.; With the
outdoor bike lane shut down, cyclists are just pedestrians, and some signs near
the border crossing no longer have their old appeal. (Photographs by Monica
Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 9, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: LEGAL ISSUES;
Court Upholds Secret Hearings On Deportation

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK and ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words


The federal appeals court in Philadelphia ruled yesterday that the Bush
administration had acted lawfully in holding hundreds of deportation hearings in
secret based on its assertion that those detained might have links to terrorism.

The decision was at odds with one rendered by the federal appeals court in
Cincinnati in August, and the conflict between the two courts -- the only ones
to rule so far on the issue -- makes it reasonably likely that the United States
Supreme Court will consider one of the cases.

For the past year, relatives of detainees, reporters and other members of the
public have been barred from deportation hearings for immigrants detained in the
nation's investigation of terrorism. The Justice Department asserts that opening
the hearings would compromise national security by releasing information that
could aid terrorist networks.

In yesterday's decision, the three-judge panel of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit voted 2 to 1 to reverse the ruling of a federal
district judge in Newark who had ordered all deportation hearings nationwide
opened unless the government could prove on a case-by-case basis that secrecy
was needed.  Excerpts, Page A15.

"We are keenly aware of the dangers presented by deference to the executive
branch when constitutional liberties are at stake, especially in times of
national crisis," Edward R. Becker, the chief judge of the appeals court, wrote
in the majority opinion. "On balance, however, we are unable to conclude that
openness plays a positive role in special-interest deportation hearings at a
time when our nation is faced with threats of such profound and unknown
dimension."

Judge Morton I. Greenberg joined the opinion. Judge Anthony J. Scirica
dissented, saying the proper approach would be to consider claims of national
security case by case. All three judges were appointed by President Ronald
Reagan.

The case was brought by two New Jersey newspapers, and turned on the scope of
the press and the public's right to attend administrative proceedings. But both
the majority and dissenting opinions in yesterday's ruling understood the case
to be about something more fundamental: the proper balance between liberty and
security after Sept. 11.

Assistant Attorney General Robert McCallum applauded the ruling. "Today's
decision in the Third Circuit is not just a victory for the Justice Department,"
he said in a statement, "but for every American relying on the government to
take every legal step possible to protect our nation from acts of terror while
preserving constitutional liberties."

Lee Gelernt, a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union who represented
the newspapers, said his clients were reviewing the decision and considering
their options, which could involve asking the full Third Circuit to hear the
case or seeking Supreme Court review.

Mr. Gelernt stressed that the newspapers did not contend that every hearing must
be open, but only that immigration judges balance the competing interests on a
case-by-case basis. "The government's burden here was to show that every minute
of every hearing must be closed," he said.

The Supreme Court has held that whether government proceedings must be open to
the press and public as a general matter rests on the answers to two questions:
whether the proceedings have historically been open and whether the public would
benefit from openness.

The appeals panel held that the hearings at issue satisfied neither standard.
After reviewing the history of immigration proceedings, the majority held that
there was "an insufficient tradition of openness to support the right" of
access.

Mr. Gelernt said this was a misreading of history. "Deportation hearings have
always been open," he said, "and the government did not provide any evidence to
the contrary."

The majority seemed particularly persuaded by a statement submitted by Dale
Watson, an F.B.I. official.

"Watson submits that even details that seem innocuous in isolation, such as the
names of those detained, might be pieced together by knowledgeable people within
the terrorist network, who could in turn shift activities to a yet-undiscovered
terrorist cell," Judge Becker wrote. "Because immigration judges cannot be
expected to accurately assess the harm that might result from disclosing
seemingly trivial facts, Watson explains, seeking closure on a case-by-case
basis would ineffectively protect the nation's interests."

David A. Schulz, a lawyer representing several news organizations, including The
New York Times, in a friend-of-the-court filing in support of the New Jersey
newspapers, said the majority was too credulous. "They unquestioningly accepted
the government's parade of national security horribles that could hypothetically
exist," he said. "But those horribles could equally apply to criminal trials and
all sorts of proceedings that must unquestionably be open."

Eric M. Freedman, a professor at Hofstra University School of Law, said the
court's reasoning was unduly deferential to the government. "Closed proceedings
are always more convenient to the executive branch," he said. "But judges are
paid to make judgments."

At issue in the case was a directive issued by Michael J. Creppy, the nation's
chief immigration judge, 10 days after the Sept. 11 attacks.

He imposed conditions in what he called "special interest" cases involving
alleged links to terrorism: that they be heard separately from all other cases
on the docket, that the courtroom be closed to family and others, and that the
court refrain from confirming or denying whether such a case was on the docket.

The government has never formally explained how it decided which visa violators
would be singled out for this process, and it has insisted that the designations
could not be reviewed by the courts.

More than 600 hearings were eventually labeled "special interest." According to
the Justice Department, 752 people were detained on immigration violations in
connection with Sept. 11 investigations. As of late June, 81 remained in
custody. The rest were released or deported.

The decision by the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, in Cincinnati, which
required open deportation proceedings unless cause is shown for secrecy, is now
the law in Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee. The government has not
decided yet whether to appeal. One of the court's judges was appointed by
President Carter; the other two were appointed by President Clinton.

A great many of the deportation hearings have been held in New Jersey, however,
and will continue to be closed under yesterday's decision. The case in question
involved Malek Zeidan, a Syrian citizen living in Paterson, N.J., who overstayed
his visa by 14 years and was detained in January.

In May, John W. Bissell, the chief judge of the Federal District Court in
Newark, appointed by President Reagan, ruled for the newspapers.

The government asked the Third Circuit to block Judge Bissell's order until the
appeal was decided. When the court declined to do that, the government asked the
Supreme Court to stay Judge Bissell's order. The court, in a relatively unusual
move given that the case was not before it for any other purpose, blocked Judge
Bissell's order.

Professor Freedman said this signal from the Supreme Court might have helped
determine the case. "The real scandal here," he said, "is that history, law,
policy and the precedents of the Supreme Court, to say nothing of the
Constitution, require the opposite result."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 9, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL: ROUNDUP;
Cuban Pitcher Posts Bond

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 374 words


The Cuban pitcher Jose Contreras was released on bond Monday night after seeking
asylum in the United States.

Contreras, who defected last week, posted $2,000 bond and was freed in San
Diego, where he was held by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for a
week, the spokeswoman Lauren Mack said.

Coach Miguel Valdez and his 19-year-old son, who defected with Contreras, also
posted bond and were released, Mack said. The three, accompanied by their
lawyer, Jaime Torres, flew to Florida late Monday. Torres declined to give any
additional information about Contreras or his plans.

The three are free to remain in the United States while their asylum requests
are being considered. Typically, the immigration process and request for
political asylum can take three to six months.

Contreras, a 6-foot-4 right-hander who turns 31 in December, was considered by
many major league scouts to be the best pitcher in Cuba. He was last seen at the
America Series tournament in Monterrey, Mexico, on Oct. 1.

NEW PACT FOR TORONTO'S RICCIARDI: The Toronto Blue Jays gave General Manager
J.P. Ricciardi a new five-year contract yesterday, a week after denying the
Boston Red Sox permission to interview him.

Ricciardi, who is from Worcester, Mass., had been a leading candidate to replace
Boston's interim general manager, Mike Port. Ricciardi had two years left on the
three-year contract and said he was happy to stay in Toronto, where the
rebuilding Blue Jays had the fourth-best record (44-32) in the major leagues
after the All-Star Game break. They went 58-51 after Ricciardi replaced Buck
Martinez with Carlos Tosca as the club's manager.

BACKGROUND CHECKS IN LITTLE LEAGUE: Little League Baseball will require all its
managers, coaches and volunteers to be checked against their state's list of
convicted sex offenders.

"We want to let anyone who would prey upon kids in the Little League program
know that they're not welcome and we're going to do what we can to keep them
out," Stephen D. Keener, president of Little League Baseball Inc., said.

Little League has recommended that local leagues do background checks on
volunteers since 1996, when USA Baseball suggested that all youth baseball
organizations adopt such voluntary policies.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 10, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Rockies: Colorado: Resignation Over E-Mail

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 58 words


Gov. Bill Owens's re-election campaign treasurer resigned after distributing an
e-mail message that ridiculed immigrants. The treasurer, Bob Adams, said he had
received the message at home from a high school classmate, found it humorous and
forwarded it to three people. It included a poem about immigrants' buying
property with welfare money.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 11, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IRAQI AMERICANS;
Refugees Back Effort to End Hussein's Rule Despite Risk to Relatives

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Oct. 10


They have immigrated to the United States by the thousands over the years, many
with still-fresh memories of terror, torture and killing in their homeland. For
them, there is no debate over the rightness of America's going to war with Iraq,
and they say they need no more reminders from President Bush why Saddam Hussein
should be removed from power.

In a sense, Iraqis living in America as refugees and United States citizens are
among the staunchest supporters of Mr. Bush's campaign for military action. For
many of them, no price is too great to overthrow the Iraqi leader -- even if it
costs the lives of ordinary Iraqis, including their own relatives.

"Change of regime is most important," said Ali Alseed, 37, who fled Iraq with
his wife last year and made his way here, where he works as a car rental agent.
"Casualties will be determined, but we have to pay a price to achieve the goal
of regime change. I have no problem with that. It's worth the price."

Tarik Abed, 44, an auto mechanic who left Iraq in 1997, leaving behind a wife
and four children, agreed: "War has to have casualties. A change in regime has
to have casualties. If there are less than 50 percent casualties, then we can
celebrate."

Conceding that many Iraqis could die -- and accepting it as a consequence of
American-led success -- is a new measure of the hatred Iraqis here hold for Mr.
Hussein, said Jabir Algarawi, the Iraqi-born director of the Arizona Refugee
Community Center. Immigrants like Mr. Alseed and Mr. Abed have come to the
center since 1993 to find housing, jobs and English language training.

Normally, Mr. Algarawi said, political discourse at the center revolves around a
loathing of Mr. Hussein. But now, with the Bush administration trying to build
public support for military action, he said talk includes heightened
expectations that the president will accomplish what his father failed to do in
the 1991 Persian Gulf War -- remove Mr. Hussein and replace his regime with a
democracy that would let ordinary people live dignified lives.

"It's a balance," Mr. Algarawi said of the new political drift. "People think
about Saddam Hussein. They know we have to get rid of him. They know it will
cause casualties. But this is a man who is not in control in a peaceful time.
This is a murderer, a criminal, a man who used chemical weapons against his own
people. A thousand people are dying every day in Iraq. He is killing them. So
it's a mixed feeling, sure -- happiness that it might be the time to remove him,
but scared, too, for the civilians who would be a casualty of that."

Metropolitan Phoenix has become a favorite destination for Iraqis newly arrived
in the United States. The 2000 census found 37,714 people across America who
identified themselves as Iraqi nationals or Iraqi Americans, the largest numbers
living in Michigan, Southern California and New York.

But a hospitable immigrant community and warm, dry weather that reminds many
Iraqis of their home villages are drawing a growing number to the Phoenix area,
far more than the 822 recorded by census takers. Mr. Algarawi said judging by
his center's activity, as many as 4,000 now live in the area.

Many here say they have a surfeit of reasons to despise the Iraqi leader.

Mr. Algarawi said as a 14-year-old schoolboy in Basra, he accidentally bounced a
ball against a wall, causing a picture of Mr. Hussein to fall and break. He was
arrested, he said, then stripped and tortured for three days by government
agents who insisted he knocked the picture down on purpose.

Mr. Alseed said his brother, Alia, joined an opposition group only to be
captured by government troops and executed in 1997.

Abdallah Abadeh, 39, a calligrapher who objected to painting propaganda posters
for the military, said he was sentenced to 12 years in prison for quitting the
army. After serving 18 months, he said he was released on the promise he return
to military service, but he fled the country instead.

They all have relatives still living in Iraq, they said, but more than fearing
for their relatives' safety, they fear the Bush administration might not deliver
what Iraqis want most, an end to Mr. Hussein's regime and destruction of weapons
he might use against his enemies.

Mr. Algarawi said he eagerly joined insurgent forces in 1991 when the United
States encouraged Iraqi citizens to rise up against their leader. Many did, he
said, in all parts of the country. But the United States provided no military
support for their actions and expressed no interest in an open-ended occupation
or nation building.

As a result, Mr. Algarawi said, "our uprising was crushed" by forces loyal to
Mr. Hussein, and their anger toward the first Bush administration grew.

"We were very angry" at the Americans, he said. "We felt they betrayed us.
Thousands died because of nasty politics."

They say they believe that will not be the case this time. At least, they say
they want to believe.

"Hopefully, George Bush will not back off his decision to change the regime,"
Mr. Abed said. "The Iraqi people would be disappointed. The news now from inside
Iraq is that people are defacing pictures of Saddam with graffiti. They are
saying, 'It's time for you to go.'

"This time, we don't want just bombing," he added. "We welcome the idea of a
regime change. We don't want a repeat of '91."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abdallah Abadeh, 39, an Iraqi refugee works on posters for a
rally in Phoenix against Saddam Hussein. (Tom Story for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 11, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

BASEBALL: ROUNDUP;
Cuban Defector Wants to Pitch In Majors

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 216 words


When Jose Contreras pitched eight shutout innings during an exhibition game
against the Baltimore Orioles in Havana three years ago, he was called the best
pitcher in Cuba. Now that he has defected to the United States, Contreras wants
to add to his reputation.

"This is where the best baseball in the world is played," Contreras said
yesterday during a news conference at the office of his agent, the Miami-based
lawyer Jaime Torres. "With the right conditioning, I could contribute."

A 6-foot-4 right-hander, Contreras defected earlier this month. He was taken
into custody by Immigration and Naturalization Service agents in San Diego, was
released on bond Monday night and flew to Miami along with the Cuban coach
Miguel Valdez and his son, both of whom also defected and now seek political
asylum.

Contreras was 13-4 with a 1.76 earned run average in the Cuban league this
season. He was last seen with the Cuban national team at a tournament in
Monterrey, Mexico, on Oct. 1. He defected a day later.

Contreras said he had spoken with Yankees pitcher Orlando Hernandez by telephone
in recent days. Hernandez, who defected in 1997, established residency in Costa
Rica, then signed a free-agent contract with the Yankees in 1998. He is expected
to meet with Contreras in Miami on Sunday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 11, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Contractor Faces Charges In Collapse

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words


A construction contractor was indicted yesterday on charges of manslaughter and
assault in connection with the collapse of a scaffolding at a Gramercy Park
office building last October that killed five workers and seriously injured
four.

The indictment came nine days after similar charges were filed in connection
with an unrelated building collapse on the Upper East Side in May. Serious
criminal charges involving construction accidents have been rare in the past, in
part because it is difficult to prove a contractor was knowingly reckless,
prosecutors said. Before these cases, the last widely publicized criminal case
in New York was more than a year ago.

Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, who announced the
indictment yesterday at a news conference, said his office paid special
attention to such cases because the workers were often illegal immigrants who
were reluctant to come forward.

Both cases suggest a need for greater supervision of building contractors, said
Patricia J. Lancaster, the commissioner of the city's Buildings Department, who
attended the news conference. Construction contractors are not licensed by the
city or the state, but they should be, Ms. Lancaster said.

The contractor who was arrested yesterday, Phillip V. Minucci, became the focus
of a criminal inquiry after a 13-story scaffolding collapsed on Oct. 24, inside
a courtyard at 215 Park Avenue South, where workers were removing bricks from a
facade and applying fresh cement.

Mr. Minucci, 42, was released on a $150,000 bond yesterday after being arraigned
before Justice Arlene Goldberg in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He faces
five counts of second-degree manslaughter, which carry a maximum sentence of 15
years in prison, and four counts of assault, which carry a maximum of seven
years. He declined to comment yesterday.

In addition to disregarding building codes and safety laws, prosecutors said,
Mr. Minucci failed to abide by a provision in his contract with the general
contractor requiring a review of the scaffolding plan by a licensed engineer.

The 130-foot scaffolding, which weighed about 90,000 pounds, was improperly
designed and far too heavy to support itself, Mr. Morgenthau said. The load far
exceeded manufacturers' recommendations, prosecutors said. They noted that Mr.
Minucci's bid for the job -- though not the lowest -- included an offer to build
planking at every level of the scaffolding. That meant the work could go faster,
but it also meant the scaffolding was far heavier.

Mr. Morgenthau said that Mr. Minucci designed the scaffolding himself, "in
violation of building codes, engineering requirements and common sense." City
building codes require that a licensed engineer or architect design any
scaffolding more than 75 feet tall, and Mr. Minucci has no engineering
background and no license.

Mr. Minucci's company, Tri State Scaffolding & Equipment Supplies Inc., of Deer
Park, N.Y., was also indicted on the same charges yesterday. The company was
fined $146,600 and cited for violations related to the collapse in April by the
federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Two other contractors
that also worked at the site, Nesa Inc. and New Millennium Restoration &
Contracting Corporation, received lesser fines and citations from the federal
agency.

Prosecutors said the investigation would continue, but it would not focus on 215
Park Avenue Associates, the manager of the building. That company, which is
partly owned by Stephen L. Green, a brother of Mark Green, a former Democratic
mayoral candidate, was cited for three violations of city construction
regulations shortly after the collapse. Mr. Morgenthau's office declined to
elaborate.

Ms. Lancaster said that buildings officials inspected scaffoldings on a
"complaint-driven basis" and made occasional sweeps, but had no other way of
verifying their safety.

Most of the 20 workers who were on the Gramercy Park site at the time of the
collapse were illegal immigrants from Mexico and South America who were paid in
cash at the rate of $7 an hour, prosecutors said.

"We're grateful these indictments were handed down," said William Schwitzer, a
lawyer who represents eight of the workers in lawsuits against Mr. Minucci and
other contractors.

"It doesn't bring these people back, but it does give the families a sense that
even though they are illegal and undocumented, that doesn't mean their lives
aren't worth something," Mr. Schwitzer said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Firefighters, police officers and rescue crews worked to clear
rubble and get people out after a scaffolding collapsed at a Gramercy Park
office building last year. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)(pg. B8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 12, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DETAINEE;
Canadian Immigrant Arrested At J.F.K. Is Deported to Syria

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 359 words


A Canadian citizen suspected of having ties to terrorist organizations was
deported to Syria on Thursday, two weeks after he was detained at Kennedy
International Airport as he tried to catch a connecting flight to Canada.

Officials involved in the investigation said the man, Maher Arar, 32, holds both
Canadian and Syrian citizenship.

It is not clear what caused Mr. Arar's detention as he arrived in New York City
on Sept. 26 on a flight from Tunisia and Zurich to connect with a flight for
Montreal, or what his possible connection might be to terrorist activities.

American immigration officials declined to comment.

But Muslim groups in Canada question why the man was returned to Syria, his
place of birth, and not the place where he has lived for the last 15 years.

"There is a significant risk that he will be tortured and punished in Syria,"
said Riad Saloojee, executive director of the Canadian office of the Council on
American Islamic Relations. He said that Mr. Arar had not fulfilled his
obligation to perform military service in Syria when he left the country and
could face legal repercussions there.

"By taking this action the American government has placed the life and security
of a Canadian citizen in danger," Mr. Saloojee said.

Mr. Arar's wife, Monia, who is in Tunisia, told Mr. Saloojee that her husband is
an engineer in the field of communications and has no terrorist ties.

Mr. Saloojee said Mr. Arar was held in solitary confinement from Sept. 27 until
his deportation on Thursday. He was in touch with his family and the Canadian
Consulate in New York during that time. He told his family, however, that he was
not able to talk to a lawyer during the time he was being questioned.

Reynald Doiron, a spokesman for Canada's Department of Foreign Affairs and
International Trade, said Mr. Arar had been detained on an immigration-related
charge and was deported on an immigration infraction.

In the past, Canada has sometimes filed formal diplomatic notes of protest when
its citizens have been caught in terrorism investigations in the United States.

But Canadian diplomats have not yet protested the deportation of Mr. Arar.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico Struggles for the Attentions of a Preoccupied U.S.

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON and TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 973 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Oct. 12


Mexico wants to talk to the United States about the flood of migrants illegally
crossing the Rio Grande. The United States wants to talk about its rights to the
river's water.

But with the White House fiercely focused on terrorism and Iraq, the two
neighbors do not talk much about anything these days.

Their relations, say diplomats on both sides of the border, have gone from
stalled to strained. Issues that once prompted bold initiatives by both
governments -- immigration, trade, energy -- are now reduced to one-liners and
nonstarters.

"Got any water for me?" Secretary of State Colin L. Powell asked Foreign
Minister Jorge G. Castaneda last month, referring to Mexico's billion-gallon
debt under a 1944 treaty.

"Yeah, Colin, I always have water for you," Mr. Castaneda said, shrugging.

The impasse matters little to a preoccupied White House. But it is a serious
political liability to Mexico's president, Vicente Fox. When he took office in
2000, he promised a closer, stronger relationship with the United States, and
safeguards for the hundreds of thousands of Mexicans who illegally cross the
border each year.

Now, as Mexico awaits a visit by President Bush in two weeks, officials here say
they will fight again to win his attention. Failing that, they are watching the
elections next month in the United States to see if voters show an inclination
to back candidates and ideas favorable to Mexican immigrants. They are
considering alliances with Mr. Bush's Democratic opponents in Congress.

But there are signs that Mr. Fox thinks he is fighting a losing battle. He is
scaling back his visions for a grand new deal with Washington. He has closed a
special office for immigrant affairs and delegated much of its work to Mexico's
consulates. He once traveled regularly north of the border, but has no new trips
to the United States on his schedule.

A frustrated Mr. Castaneda, the architect of Mexico's foreign policy, may leave
that post before long. And, rather than taking meetings at the White House,
Mexican officials plan to work on immigration with state and local officials,
labor unions and grass-roots organizations.

"It is very clear to me that President Fox understands he is not going to
achieve much of his migration agenda in the next few years," said Sergio
Sarmiento, a political columnist in Mexico City.

"President Fox dramatically changed Mexico's foreign policy traditions, moving
Mexico closer to the United States with the argument that it was the best way to
get more U.S. support," he said. "He cannot completely surrender. So he will
keep up a good show."

Mr. Bush said on Sept. 5, 2001, that "the United States has no more important
relationship in the world than our relationship with Mexico." But after the
attacks on New York and Washington, Mexico "completely disappeared from the
radar screen" at the White House, said Arturo Valenzuela, a former National
Security Council officer for Latin American affairs.

Before the attacks, Mr. Fox had seized upon Mexico's enhanced status to push a
migration project that was as ambitious as the North American Free Trade
Agreement. Declaring himself president to 100 million Mexicans at home and 23
million in the United States, he challenged Washington to expand permanent visas
and guest-worker programs for Mexicans, and to give legal status to about 3
million Mexican migrants.

After the attacks, nothing happened. Scrambling to salvage his hallmark foreign
policy project, Mr. Fox urged Mr. Bush to consider legalizing immigrants as part
of a hemispheric security strategy. But that got little reaction from a White
House looking far beyond the Mexican border and eager to avoid a potentially
divisive issue in an election year.

Interior Minister Santiago Creel said: "Mexico has shown a willingness to work
on drugs. Mexico has shown a willingness to work on security. But when Mexico
asks the United States to work on migration, we have not seen the same
willingness."

From Washington's viewpoint, Mexico has "mistakenly reduced the relationship to
one issue: migration," said Jeffrey Davidow, who stepped down last month after
four years as the United States ambassador in Mexico. "That is the same mistake
that many in the U.S. made in the past, when we reduced the relationship to one
issue: drugs."

But some think the White House has become myopic toward Mexico.

"President Bush is right in that the U.S. has an almost primordial interest in
good relations with Mexico," said Robert Pastor, director of the new Center for
North American Studies at American University. "The tragedy is that he never
found a way to translate that interest into a policy. He never defined it except
in terms of his personal desire for a good relationship.

"He had an incredible opportunity and he walked away from it," Mr. Pastor said.
"That's why the Mexicans are frustrated."

The frustration has mounted in Mexico as Mr. Fox's immigration proposals
languish. So have the political costs among his transnational constituency. The
impasse fueled criticism that Mr. Fox was "willing to serve Mexico up to the
U.S. on a silver platter and get nothing in return," said Denise Dresser, a
political analyst at the Technological Autonomous Institute of Mexico.

Among Mexicans in the United States, Ms. Dresser said, Mr. Fox "remains popular,
but there is a growing feeling that he cannot deliver."

Arturo Sarukhan, a chief Foreign Ministry adviser, said Mexico would not wait
for Mr. Bush to make its case to Americans. The Fox government seems ready to
use politics where diplomacy has failed.

"We are going to turn up the volume," he said. "We are going to try to get this
issue back on the front pages and on the floor of Congress."

But Mr. Sarukhan said the odds were against Mexico.

"The problem," he said, "is that we may be launching this effort in the middle
of a war with Iraq."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicente Fox pledged to work not only for Mexicans at home but
for the 23 million who, like these men in Lajitas, Tex., live in the United
States. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 13, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: DISRUPTIONS;
Slowdown on U.S. Visas Stalls Business, Science And Personal Travel Plans

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1536 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


A global slowdown in the issuing of American visas to foreigners is disrupting
lives in the United States and abroad. It is interfering with scientific
research and business deals, forcing some people to postpone medical treatment
and weddings and stranding others away from their homelands, say government
officials and advocates for immigrants.

As part of sweeping changes in government rules after the attacks of Sept. 11,
the Central Intelligence Agency and the Federal Bureau of Investigation are
comparing all visa applications against lists of criminals or terrorism
suspects. As a result, visa applications are being delayed all over the world,
not just in Muslim countries where many applicants, especially young men, have
been required to undergo especially detailed reviews.

Secretary of State Colin L. Powell recently voiced concern about the delays in a
private meeting with lawmakers.

In an embarrassing episode in July, the State Department was forced to cancel
about 100 visas that had already been issued -- and in some cases used to enter
the United States -- after the F.B.I. reported that the names had raised
concerns. Since then, visa delays have increased greatly.

Consular officials declined to comment on the extent of the problem, except to
say that their abrupt release of 10,000 visas last month was an attempt to clear
the backlog.

Some applicants have been waiting for months after clearance of their visas by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which normally takes 100 days to
approve petitions for visas. Visas are issued by the Bureau of Consular Affairs
in the State Department after applicants have cleared security investigations.

"The fact is there are some national security reviews going on for visas," said
Stuart Patt, a spokesman for the consular affairs bureau. "Some people are being
inconvenienced by it, but the interests of the country are such that we must
have visas reviewed by the law enforcement agencies."

The delays have been especially pronounced in China and Russia, even though
their citizens have not been linked to the Sept. 11 attacks.

For example, a Chinese scientist who played a role in a recent breakthrough in
AIDS research is unable to return to the biotech company in Fremont, Calif.,
where he works until he clears a new security review. The scientist, Siyu Fu,
who has lived in the United States for more than three years, has been told to
prepare for a wait of up to three months in Switzerland, where he traveled in
September for what he thought would be a routine business trip, said his lawyer,
Lisa Spiegel.

Universities like Michigan State are fretting over the loss of Chinese students
and teaching assistants who have missed the start of the term.

"In a place like Moscow, things get gummed up pretty quickly," said Lisa Choate,
a spokeswoman for American Councils, a nonprofit group that arranges student
exchanges financed by the State Department. Three groups of high school students
missed their visits because their visas were not ready.

"We spend endless hours just trying to figure out what to do and how to do it,"
Ms. Choate said.

The delays have stymied Kip Thorne, a physicist at the California Institute of
Technology, who is part of a wide effort to prove Einstein's general theory of
relativity. His Russian colleague, Vladimir Braginsky, who has visited the
United States regularly over three decades, has been waiting since July for a
visa to collaborate on the billion-dollar taxpayer-financed project involving 13
nations.

Despite many calls to officials in Washington, Professor Thorne said, Dr.
Braginsky "has been left hanging for three months" without any information on
the status of his visa.

"It is a great embarrassment to me, as an American citizen, to have to tell my
foreign colleagues of this situation when they inquire about Braginsky,"
Professor Thorne said,

John Lanzetta, a financial planner in Swedesboro, N.J., is still waiting for his
fiancee, who is in Moscow. Her visa was cleared by the immigration service in
August, pending a security review.

"Emotionally, it's just draining," said Mr. Lanzetta, who says is phone bills
are $1,000 a month as he tries to console his Siberian-born fiancee, Lyudmilla
Chernyakhovskaya.

Officials say the security agencies, the F.B.I. and the C.I.A., are overwhelmed
by the requests for visa security checks at a time when they are scrambling to
update their watch lists of suspected terrorists. The watch lists include a
database known as Tipoff that contains more than 80,000 names, with 2,000 more
names being added every month. The security agencies workloads have surged 455
percent since Sept. 11, Chris Kojm, a State Department intelligence official,
recently said at the joint Congressional inquiry into the attacks.

Troubled by previous lapses and confused about its role in the process, the
C.I.A. lowered its criteria for placing applicants on the list, swelling the
pool of suspects, according to a report last month by Eleanor Hill, the staff
director of the Congressional inquiry.

"Tipoff is not adequately staffed to handle the increased workload," Ms. Hill
said at a hearing of the joint committee. She added that the program's staff
members -- 11 full-time workers and a few part-time workers -- are called upon
"after hours, nights, weekends, wee hours."

In the July incident in which about 100 visas were canceled, consular officials
declined to discuss the operation or say whether, under closer scrutiny, the
F.B.I. concerns led to searches or arrests.

After that, consular officials imposed a rule that no more visas be granted
without the explicit approval of the security agencies, officials said. In the
past, the State Department gave the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. 30 days to raise
objections to a visa applicant, then processed the request as though the
applicant had been cleared.

Some foreigners interested in coming to the United States seem to have given up
on getting visas. In the last two months, State Department revenues from visa
applications have fallen by 30 percent, officials said. Faced with a budget
shortage, the department is planning to raise its fees to $100 from $60 for
processing nonimmigrant visas.

Some applicants have sought to speed up their initial petitions for a visa by
paying $1,000 for premium processing. By paying that fee, business executives,
high-tech workers and performers have managed to shorten their wait at the hands
of the immigration service to two weeks from 100 days, but they still must face
the security reviews.

"The cumulative effect of all these measures is to discourage people from coming
here," said Jonathan Ginsburg, a Virginia immigration lawyer who was briefed
this week by consular officials. At some point, Mr. Ginsburg added, one has to
ask: "Well, gee, isn't this going to have an effect on the overall economy?"

Consular officials acknowledge that they are taking few chances. Their bureau
faced fierce criticism over the past year after the disclosure that 15 of the
Sept. 11 hijackers had been granted visas to enter the United States, three of
them without being interviewed by a consular official. The assistant secretary
of state for consular affairs, Mary A. Ryan, was forced to resign, and her
example weighs heavily on her former employees, officials say.

"If one of these other agencies comes in late and we've already issued the visa,
who's going to be faulted for not caring about national security?" asked one
State Department official. "It's going to be the visa officer, the State
Department."

As it stands, the department would lose much of its visa-granting powers to
President Bush's proposed Department of Homeland Security. Under the White House
plan, the new department would set the guidelines and hold the legal authority
for issuing visas, leaving the State Department's consular corps to carry out
the paperwork.

The State Department last year issued 5.7 million nonimmigrant visas of all
types.

Now, stranded travelers, their loved ones and colleagues are beginning to clog
the e-mail systems and fax machines on Capitol Hill with complaints.

"There are all kinds of problems," said one Senate aide who works on
immigration. "It's affecting a lot of legitimate travelers."

Some lawmakers have interceded on behalf of high-profile applicants. Senator Kay
Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, recently manage to free visas for Russian
hockey players so they could join the Dallas Stars, aides said.

"We regularly help people who have legitimate concerns, who are not security
risks," said Lisette Mondello, the senator's spokeswoman.

But celebrity is not a guarantee. In September, Chucho Valdes, the Cuban jazz
pianist, missed a chance to accept his first Latin Grammy. He was among 22 Cuban
nominees who could not get visas that would have allowed them to attend the Los
Angeles ceremony.

Responding to the outcry over that incident, the State Department late last
month suddenly released the 10,000 visas to applicants that were being reviewed
under the Visas Condor program, a security check for foreign students, business
people and certain other travelers. Once the system is functioning properly,
officials said, security delays will be reduced to one month.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chucho Valdes, a Cuban, could not get to the Latin Grammys.
(Reuters); John Lanzetta has been waiting since August for his fiancee,
Lyudmilla Chernyakhovskaya, in Moscow. (Tim Shaffer for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 16, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 47 words


An article yesterday about a French immigrant who is leading a drive to involve
more blacks and Arabs in French politics misspelled the given name of a jazz
musician who was among the talented black Americans welcomed in Paris over the
years. He was Sidney Bechet, not Sydney.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 16, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Skeletons Tell Tale of Gamble By Immigrants

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN with JIM YARDLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1003 words

DATELINE: DENISON, Iowa, Oct. 15


About four months ago somewhere along a stretch of railroad tracks in Texas,
perhaps, or Mexico, 11 people took a death-defying gamble.

They climbed into an empty grain hopper, a rail car that can be tightly sealed
to keep its contents clean and dry. The hatch was shut and locked from the
outside, leaving the stowaways, presumably immigrants being smuggled from Mexico
or Central America, trapped in stifling darkness.

Then they died. Whether they suffocated, starved or succumbed to the heat, the
authorities do not know, only that they died horribly, and unnoticed.

The Union Pacific hopper ended up in Oklahoma, where it sat unopened in
long-term storage all summer and into the fall. On Sunday, it traveled to this
small farm town 60 miles northeast of Omaha, where a worker at a grain elevator
opening grain hoppers for routine inspection found the near-skeletal remains,
Sheriff Tom Hogan of Crawford County said at a news conference here this
morning.

Sheriff Hogan described the sight as heartbreaking.

"Our thoughts go to those people that found themselves for whatever reason
trapped inside that rail car," he said. "It had to be frightening."

Hours after the discovery, the hopper was taken to Des Moines, where the bodies
were removed and police investigators began trying to determine their
identities.

Sheriff Hogan said the authorities had not determined the immigrants' sex, age
or nationality. He said he did not know how long the corpses had been trapped,
but suggested that because of the state of decomposition, it was at least "weeks
ago, as opposed to days ago."

Jerry Heinauer, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service for the
Omaha District, which includes Nebraska and Iowa, said the hopper left
Matamoros, Mexico, four months ago and had been parked in Oklahoma from mid-June
until Oct. 10, before arriving here.

Jose Luis Cuevas, the Mexican consul for Nebraska, Iowa and South and North
Dakota, said he was working under the assumption that the immigrants were
Mexicans.

John Bromley, a spokesman for Union Pacific in Omaha, said the dead had been
found in a grain hopper at the Farm Service Co-op and Archer Daniels Midland
elevators in Denison, but declined further comment.

A spokeswoman for Archer Daniels Midland, Karla Miller, said the hopper had been
in long-term storage until the company recently ordered a group of hoppers to
transport grain.

Sheriff Hogan said the hatch of the hopper could be opened only from outside. He
said that the immigrants wore "warm weather" clothing and that there was no
grain in the hopper.

The authorities said this morning that they had received telephone calls from as
far as New York from people trying to find out whether the immigrants were their
relatives.

Many residents were stunned in this farming town of 7,339 with a growing
Hispanic population.

Mayor Ken Livingston of Denison said he had spoken with religious and community
leaders to help with managing grief if the immigrants had family members here.

"If what's alleged is that this is a smuggling operation," Mr. Livingston asked,
"who's going to come forward?"

Along the Texas-Mexico border, where the Union Pacific freight crossed from
Matamoros to Brownsville, Tex., Border Patrol officials doubted that the
immigrants had boarded in Mexico.

The Border Patrol, the Customs Service and the private security force of the
railroad routinely inspect trains at crossings with dogs that can sniff out
drugs and people.

Typically, officials said, illegal immigrants cross the Rio Grande alone or in
small groups led by a smuggler known as a coyote.

Harry Beall, an assistant chief of the Border Patrol in the McAllen, Tex.,
sector, said several organized smuggling rings in that region specialized in
placing illegal immigrants in northbound boxcars.

Chief Beall added that his office kept a database of names and telephone numbers
of smugglers. He said his office had contacted officials in Iowa to determine
whether any telephone numbers or names had been found in the pockets of the
immigrants.

Chief Beall said trains were typically inspected first at crossings and again at
railyards and border patrol checkpoints in Texas as far north as Corpus Christi,
125 miles north of Brownsville.

"We walk the train, and we have canines that are trained to alert to human cargo
or contraband," he said. "If it's a grain hopper, we bang the side with our
fist. The empty ones sound like a big drum. The empty ones we look in."

The McAllen office caught 2,095 illegal immigrants in freight cars in the 2002
fiscal year, including 26 people found on a train in June. In that case, the
immigrants were found by a trained dog in a grain hopper filled with soda ash,
the same sort of hopper with the bodies in Iowa.

In 1987, border agents found 18 dead illegal immigrants in a freight train that
had stopped in Sierra Blanca, Tex., on a boiling summer day. One man survived by
using a railroad spike to cut an air hole in the freight car.

Often, officials say, immigrants are locked in a car by the coyote. Sometimes
the car is accidentally locked. Many times, immigrants, realizing that they are
trapped, bang against the sides of freight cars, desperately trying to call the
attention of someone outside.

Chief Beall assumed that the dead immigrants in Iowa had most likely tried at
some point to call attention.

Today in Denison, residents voiced dismay at news of the deaths.

"I can't imagine people being so desperate to come to the United States and be
willing to do that," Lori Schmeckpeper, a secretary at the Denison Baptist
Church said.

Ms. Schmeckpeper noted that the town had seen an influx in recent years of
Hispanic immigrants drawn by work at two meatpacking plants.

"I wonder if they even realized that once you get in one of those cars that you
can't get out if it's shut from the outside," she said. "I feel really bad for
possibly the families that are still in Mexico and maybe the families that are
over here that might have been waiting for them. It's such a horrible thing."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grain hopper in which the bodies of 11 immigrants were found was
sealed yesterday and sent to Des Moines. (Rodney White/Des Moines Register, via
Associated Press)(pg. A21) Map of Iowa highlighting Denison: Grain hopper from
Mexico arrived on Sunday in Denison, Iowa. (pg. A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 17, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tragedy Chose a Place of Quiet Serenity

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 734 words

DATELINE: DENISON, Iowa, Oct. 16


With snowflakes falling on a cold gray day, the scent of tortillas and spice
from El Burrito restaurant drifted onto Main Street this morning. A few doors
down, inside Tienda Vaquera, a country-and-western store, the scent of leather
boots -- crocodile, lizard and ostrich -- filled the air. The owner, Rogelio
Cabrera, stood proudly behind the counter.

Like others from Latin America who have migrated to this small farming town in
western Iowa, Mr. Cabrera conceded that it might not seem the most likely of
places for them to have settled. But here they are, many drawn by the work at
Denison's two big meatpacking plants but also by the usual attractions of
small-town living: no smog, quiet country nights, a sense of safety. Denison's
theme, "It's a wonderful life," derived from the movie, is inscribed on a water
tower.

The serene pace has already returned just two days after 11 bodies, presumably
those of illegal immigrants, were found here inside a Union Pacific grain hopper
that was latched closed from the outside. Late today Dr. Julia Goodin, the
state's chief medical examiner, said autopsies had determined that the 11 dead
were 4 women and 7 men and that the cause was hyperthermia and dehydration
resulting from heat inside the rail car.

As the state continued trying to identify the victims, some here reflected on
their plight. The assumption is that they died trying to find their way to a
better life, a quest familiar to no few people in Denison. Town officials say
Hispanics now account for some 1,400 of the 7,300 residents.

Ramon Patino, 31, first came to the United States from Mexico in 1986, a
teenager drawn by hope. He recalls crossing the Rio Grande and finding seasonal
work picking and shelling pecans in Texas, afraid to look for employment farther
north because he lacked money or any legal documents.

In 1987, he said, he got his first work permit. By 1994, he had made his way to
Denison to work at a meatpacking plant. Now a United States citizen, he owns a
restaurant here and an adjacent small grocery store. He recently opened another
store in the town of Storm Lake, to the north, and employs a total of 12 people.

Mr. Patino said he was disturbed by news of the 11 deaths. Mexicans are well
aware, he noted, that some unscrupulous "coyotes" collect great sums for
smuggling immigrants and then lead them to rail cars with the false promise that
someone will open the latch at the other end of the journey.

"That's always in the Spanish news," he said. "That happens every day."

He also understands why people take the risk.

"Everybody wants to live better," he said. "We're here to try to work. That's
everybody's dream. America is the dream of everybody. Unfortunately, everybody
doesn't make it."

As for Mr. Cabrera, a 47-year-old native of Mexico, he described himself as a
resident alien who had been in the United States since 1974 and worked at a
packing plant in Denison for three years. Eighteen months ago he opened his
store, which sells leather jackets, wallets and shoes, soccer jerseys and other
items.

Mayor Ken Livingston applauds the arrival of Hispanics and says its benefits
have been reaped by Denison.

"We are unique in that we are the only community in southwest Iowa to have our
school enrollment grow, and that's primarily due to the influx of Hispanics,"
Mayor Livingston said. "So it has had a positive impact financially," because
government compensates the schools on the basis of enrollment.

The mayor said the town even financed a study two years ago "to continue to look
for ways to have an all-inclusive community, to bring these folks in, to infuse
them into our community."

As evidence of the locals' receptivity, Mayor Livingston cited the
Hispanic-owned stores and restaurants that have sprung up as well as the
continuing immigration of families.

"It's nice to live here," said Maria Moran, who with her husband, Bernardo, runs
Panaderia La Central, a small bakery that was filled this morning with the sweet
smell of cookies, cakes and bread.

Both were born in the Mexican state of Jalisco but have been in the United
States many years. They moved to Denison with their two teenagers less than a
year ago from Chicago. They had visited relatives here over the years, and had
taken to the town.

It's a good place to "grow up kids," Mrs. Moran explained. "Clear air."

"No smoke," her husband agreed. "It's a farmer's town, you know?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Pact For Actors At Ellis Island

BYLINE:  By Steven Greenhouse (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 98 words


Actors Equity has reached a contract agreement for the actors at the Ellis
Island Immigration Museum.

The 12 actors, who joined the union in August, perform in "Embracing Freedom," a
story of immigrants' coming to America. Under the contract, the actors' daily
salary will rise to $115 from $113, with a 3 percent raise next year. Daily pay
for understudies, formerly $78, will also climb to $115. The new agreement
includes health insurance, pensions, paid sick days and a promise from
management to do its best to provide two dressing rooms near the theater.
Steven Greenhouse (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rail Car Victims Identified

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: LOS CONOS, Mexico


A 23-year-old ironworker and his 17-year-old cousin have been tentatively
identified as among 11 people found dead on Monday locked inside a boxcar in
Iowa, family members said today.

The two men, Roberto Esparza Rico and Omar Esparza Contreras, natives of this
desert hamlet in central Mexico, boarded a train around June 15 near the border
city of Matamoros, hoping to join Mexican immigrants working in Sarasota, Fla.,
family members said.

In what appears to be the first tentative identifications of the victims, the
Mexican government told the family that the identification cards of the two were
found with the decomposing bodies. A relative has traveled to the United States
to help with the identification.

Workers at a grain elevator in Denison, about 60 miles northeast of Omaha,
discovered the victims as they prepared to clean cars. The rail car left
Matamoros in June, stopped in Oklahoma for several months, and then was hauled
to Denison.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: THE SCENE;
Richmond Is Jolted by a Sniper's Attack and Its Aftermath as Well

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: RICHMOND, Va., Oct. 21


They unleashed the Blackhawk helicopter, the SWAT team, scores of federal agents
and even a spy plane.

But by day's end, the big sting that the authorities said went down in the
suburbs of of Richmond, with two men collared in a white minivan, appeared to be
worth as much as so many other leads in the sniper investigation: absolutely
nothing.

The two men who were hauled away by a black-clad SWAT team were immigrant
laborers, guilty of no more than working without papers. But they had the bad
luck of pulling up to a phone booth the sniper may have used, in a white
minivan, right at the moment the police were watching.

"It looks like they were in the wrong place at the wrong time," an F.B.I.
official said. "It was one of those coincidences."

People in Richmond were stunned as they watched the news trucks with their
satellite dishes and yellow-slickered journalists roar into town and then roar
off. At the Exxon station in Henrico County where the police arrested the two
men, a crowd gathered to watch officers pry up manhole covers with their
fingertips and shake bushes for "evidence." Now they had to go home, with no
good story to tell.

"This is crazy, man," said Mark Deering, a mechanic who saw this morning's
arrest. "They need to catch this guy."

Until Saturday, Richmond was not part of the sniper frenzy. More than 100 miles
south of Washington, people here were not crouching behind gas pumps, not
canceling soccer practice, nor checking the rooftops. It was not their hometown
sheriff on television but somebody else's.

But that all changed after the sniper shot a 37-year-old man on Saturday night
in a Ponderosa Steakhouse parking lot in Ashland, north of Richmond, leaving him
in critical condition. Ballistic tests released today confirmed that shooting
was linked to the 11 sniper attacks in the Washington area.

The authorities in metropolitan Richmond, which has about one million residents,
responded more drastically than anywhere else, closing all public schools today
and Tuesday, much to the annoyance of many parents.

"Parents have to rearrange schedules," said Jane McCarthy, whose two children,
ages 8 and 12, attend suburban Richmond schools. "It's not like I don't fear for
my kids' safety, but where are they going to be anyway?"

Richmond officials said there was no other way to guarantee the children's
safety.

There was a sense today, in the empty food courts and at the lonely gas
stations, that people were staying home.

"It's what terrorism does," said D. Ray Davis, 42, who sat with friends at a
usually crowded mall that was quiet today. "You shoot a few people and you put
everyone in fear."

There were also many more police officers on the streets.

Around 8 a.m., Mr. Deering, the auto mechanic, stepped out of the garage at the
Royal Oldsmobile dealership to see two officers squinting through a pair of
binoculars at a phone booth across the street.

"They looked ready to spring," said Mr. Deering, 38.

An F.B.I. official said agents staked out phone booths on a stretch of West
Broad Street because there had been a suspicious call from one of them, possibly
from the sniper. The person who left a note at the scene of Saturday's shooting
mentioned the number of a pay phone in Richmond. He wrote that he wanted someone
in law enforcement to go to the pay phone to receive a call. The phone booth
sits right outside the Exxon station.

The official added: "What are the odds that two guys would drive up in a white
van on a day like today?"

But at 8:35 a.m., that is exactly what happened. Two laborers, one Mexican, one
Guatemalan, pulled up to the phone booth in a Plymouth Voyager minivan, much
like the Chevy Astro minivan the authorities think the sniper is driving.

That is when a three-member SWAT team sprinted toward the vehicle with rifles
drawn, screaming, "Get out! Get out! Get out of the car!" As mechanics huddled
in the garage across the street, the black-clad officers yanked the driver out
of the van sideways, pinned him to the pavement and hauled him away.

"They looked like they were going to shoot him," Mr. Deering said.

Pathenia Fields, a receptionist at Royal Olds, said, "They bum-rushed him," and
Keith Underwood, the service manager, said, "They had some big long guns." .

Shortly after the driver was arrested, his friend was scooped up at a gas
station across the street. Then the Richmond authorities put out a bulletin
summoning all news media to a news conference at 1 p.m. They even put up a tent
for reporters to protect them from the drizzle.

At the news conference, few questions were answered.

The Hanover County sheriff, V. Stuart Cook, announced, "The two people we have
in custody are being questioned in regards to the sniper shootings."

"Do you have the shooter?" someone shouted out.

"Is this your man?" another asked.

The sheriff would not say. Two weary eyes stared back from a sphinx-like face.

By midafternoon, rumors leaked out that there was no sniper suspect. And at 6
p.m., the Richmond authorities called reporters back.

"Two men were detained and questioned by local and federal authorities," said
Sgt. Tom Shumate of Henrico County police department. "They are now in the
custody of the I.N.S."

He did not say anything else.

Russell Bergeron, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said the two men would be charged with being illegally in United
States and face deportation. He did not disclose their names.

Several officials with the F.B.I., the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms,
and the immigration service said that the pair had nothing to do with the sniper
case.

"Wrong place, wrong time," was what many officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart/Diagram: "Following Clues"Officials said that they were making
progress in their three-week-old investigation of the Washington-area sniper
killings and they once more asked the sniper to communicate with them. WEEKEND
SHOOTINGA man is shot in the parking lot of a Ponderosa Steak-house at 8 p.m. on
Saturday. Wooded area where the sniper may have been and where a note was left
for police. YESTERDAY'S EVENTS8:30 a.m. The Virginia authorities surround a
white van parked at a pay phone in Richmond, and seize two men. Police later
said the men had nothing to do with the case and would be deported for
immigration violations. (Sources: Fred Moore, Planning Dept., town of Ashland,
Va.; Alfredo C. Frauenfelder, G.I.S. Office of Henrico County, Va.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 23, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

LESSONS;
The Voters' Prerogatives And Bilingual Education

BYLINE:  By Richard Rothstein;   E-mail: rrothstein@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: CARROLLTON, Tex.


IN November, voters in Colorado and Massachusetts will decide on initiatives
that would ban bilingual education. Arizona and California have already adopted
similar measures. Proponents, who want all instruction in English, rely on a
claim that early-20th-century immigrants succeeded by that method, called
English immersion.

But the claim is largely false. A century ago, dropout and failure rates were
much higher among the many immigrants from illiterate backgrounds than they are
today.

Secretary of Education Rod Paige opposes the proposals, saying decisions about
the proportion of English and a child's native language should be made at the
"point of instruction." That is the approach here in the affluent Dallas suburb
of Carrollton, which is mostly non-Hispanic but has a growing population of
Hispanic immigrants. Decisions about how much English a child should have at any
time are made by teachers, with parents' consent. The factors they weigh show
why a flat ban on bilingual education is unlikely to improve immigrants' chances
of success.

Carrollton's providing some instruction in Spanish is intended to help students
reach grade level as rapidly as possible. Children learn English for part of the
day but study other subjects in Spanish. Then, when they are ready to join
regular classes, they don't start off behind in math, science, social studies
and literary skills.

Even English-speaking children will often do poorly if their parents had a poor
education and are unfamiliar with academic culture. When those handicaps are
compounded by trying to learn in a language that the student does not
comprehend, success is even less likely.

So when children from Spanish-speaking homes in Carrollton enter school,
teachers assess their fluency in both English and Spanish. Those who are
stronger in Spanish are put in bilingual classes where math, science and social
studies are taught for half the day in Spanish, with the other half in English.

Some immigrants may be stronger in English, though far behind their peers in
both languages, if their home literacy in Spanish is poor. This gives teachers
little on which to build in Spanish, so such children get classes taught mainly
in English.

Most language experts say it usually takes Spanish-speaking children five to
seven years of bilingual instruction to be ready for mainstream English classes.
But Carrollton administrators usually move children to regular classes after
three years, provided they pass the Texas minimum-skills test in English.

Annette Griffin, superintendent of schools, says her staff balances several
factors in deciding how much Spanish and English each child should have.
Bilingual teachers are in short supply, so the district concentrates them where
they are most needed, in the early grades. After three years in bilingual
classes, many children have enough English fluency that regular teachers can
give whatever extra help they need.

Although such children are not as English-fluent after three years of bilingual
education as most American-born peers, they may benefit from the influence of
English-speaking classmates. The social value of an English environment has to
be weighed against the instructional value of more Spanish teaching. (This
consideration is a luxury that districts can't indulge if they have few
nonimmigrant peers with whom the immigrants can integrate.)

Support of "point of instruction" decisions on the teaching of immigrants is a
rare case where the Bush administration wants to defer to teachers and
professional educators. Perhaps the reason is that Texas, the president's home
state, has a policy of teaching in native languages and introducing English
gradually. That bilingual approach has proved more successful than English-only.

Some districts have had success by using even more Spanish than Carrollton. A
study of the schools in Houston, where Mr. Paige was previously superintendent,
found that when Hispanic immigrant children had more instruction in Spanish,
their English scores were higher than those of other immigrants and they were
less likely to drop out.

Houston usually keeps children in bilingual education longer than the three
years Carrollton aims for. In fact, the Texas Education Agency recently told
Carrollton schools to increase their emphasis on Spanish.

Perhaps Carrollton's effort to speed the transition to English has been unwise,
and academic gains from more Spanish instruction outweigh social gains from
integrating native and non-native English speakers. Perhaps scarce bilingual
teachers should be spread among more grade levels. Perhaps regular teachers give
poor support to English learners in busy classrooms.

Or perhaps future research will show that immersing immigrants in
English-speaking classes has benefits that have yet been undetected.

But one thing is certain: The worst way to resolve these issues is by voter
mandates that prevent the decisions from being made at the "point of
instruction."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 25, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE HUNT FOR A SNIPER: THE SUSPECTS;
Suspects Spent Year Traveling, Nearly Destitute

BYLINE:  By BLAINE HARDEN and TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2299 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 24


John Allen Muhammad was known to friends for his crushing handshake, his deft
touch in repairing fast cars -- and his temper.

He met his 17-year-old traveling companion, John Lee Malvo, an illegal immigrant
from Jamaica, when he dated the teenager's mother in Washington State. The
teenager called Mr. Muhammad his father and followed a strict diet of crackers,
honey and vitamin supplements that the older man prescribed, relatives said.

The two lived almost as destitutes early this year in a Lighthouse Mission in
Bellingham, Wash., a small city in the far northwest corner of the country. They
traveled this summer and early fall through Louisiana, New Jersey and finally to
the nation's capital. They were arrested together early this morning at a
Maryland rest stop while sleeping in a former undercover police car with nearly
150,000 miles on it.

After being arraigned in federal court in Baltimore this afternoon, they are
being held in connection with the 13 sniper attacks that terrorized suburban
Washington for the past three weeks. Federal officials said they were confident
that the homicidal rampage, which killed 10 people, had come to an end.

But what precipitated the killings, what guided the seemingly random selection
of innocents, and even what drew to Mr. Muhammad, 41, and the boy to the
Washington area is far from clear. Some federal officials speculated that Mr.
Muhammad, who converted to Islam in 1985 and later changed his last name from
Williams, had been motivated by anti-American sentiments.

Late last year, the lives of the two men seemed to spin out of control.

Just before Christmas, the police in Bellingham responded to a domestic dispute
involving Mr. Muhammad and Mr. Malvo's mother, Uma James. The woman and her son
were arrested for being in the country illegally. After they were freed, the boy
disappeared from high school.

In February, Mr. Muhammad, a decorated Gulf War veteran and a combat engineer,
was arrested on shoplifting charges in Tacoma, Wash., a city where he had lived
on and off since leaving the military in 1994. He skipped a court appearance and
a warrant was issued for his arrest in March.

By midsummer, the two men were halfway across the country in Baton Rouge, La.,
where they dropped in unexpectedly on some of Mr. Muhammad's relatives and
former in-laws. Mr. Muhammad, long known as a sharp dresser, surprised one of
his relatives by appearing dirty and unkempt. "He looked dingy, not clean cut,"
said Denitra King, 18 and cousin by marriage.

The two men apparently came to the East Coast sometime in late summer, picking
up a 12-year-old Chevrolet Caprice for $250 in Trenton, N.J. Less than two weeks
later, on Sept. 21, the authorities say, Mr. Malvo fled on foot from the police
after a robbery-killing at liquor store in Montgomery, Ala.

It is possible that what drew Mr. Muhammad to the Washington suburbs was the
presence of his second former wife, Mildred D. Muhammad, and their three
children. They live in Clinton, Md., not far from where many of the shootings
occurred.

Two years ago, Mr. Muhammad, who has at least five children by three women,
abducted the three children from his estranged second wife, she claimed in court
papers. She said he often threatened "to destroy my life."

Somewhere along the way, Mr. Muhammad, who qualified as an expert marksman in
the Army, picked up the Bushmaster rifle that the police say they found in his
car.

The killing rampage around Washington began on Oct. 2.

Perhaps the least unusual part of John Muhammad's past was his upbringing in
Baton Rouge.

He graduated in 1977 from nearby Scotlandville High School and joined the
Louisiana National Guard the next year. In 1981, he married his high school
sweetheart, Carol A. Kaglear, and they had a son. Some friends and relatives
said they could not believe that he is suspected as a serial killer.

"He was a good, caring man," said Edward Holliday, his first cousin, who saw Mr.
Muhammad this summer when he was visiting Baton Rouge. "He coached a football
team and liked kids. He was well mannered and friendly. Real clean cut."

Others saw a different side.

"Williams was a loner and to himself," said a high school classmate, Stanford
Joe Young. "He had a temper. He was one of the quiet ones, that if you got him
mad, you got him up."

In the National Guard, he ran into disciplinary problems. In 1982, he pleaded
guilty to disobeying orders by failing to appear for duty and was fined $100. In
a more serious incident that occurred soon thereafter, he hit a noncommissioned
officer. He was convicted the next year and sentenced to seven days in
confinement, which was suspended. He lost a stripe and was demoted from
sergeant.

Until the events of this fall in Washington, the pivotal year in Mr. Muhammad's
life appears to have been 1985. That November, he separated from his wife and
son and joined the Army. He also converted to Islam.

"After he changed his religion, he called and told me what not to feed my
child," Carol Williams told The Seattle Times. "I told him as long as he lived
with me, it was up to me."

On paper, at least, military life seemed to suit Mr. Muhammad.

After joining the Army, he was trained as a metal worker and a water-transport
specialist, but primarily as a combat engineer. He served near Tacoma at Fort
Lewis, in Germany and at Ford Ord, Calif. He served in the Gulf War and was
described by military officials as a competent but not extraordinary soldier.
Although he was not trained as a sniper, he received his marksmanship badge with
an expert rating, the highest of three categories, in the use of the M-16.

In 1988, nearly three years after joining the Army, he married for the second
time, to Mildred D. Green at Fort Lewis. They had a son and two daughters: John
Allen Jr., now 12, Salena, 10, and Taalibah Aanisah, 9.

After leaving the Army in 1994, he stayed in the Pacific Northwest, serving for
a year in the Oregon National Guard.

In Tacoma, Mr. Muhammad struck at least some of his neighbors as a solid family
man.

"You know, I'm sitting here watching all this stuff about him, and, really,
during that time he was just the hardest working guy I ever met," said Leo
Dudley, a former Marine who lived nearby. "He would work long hours. If I needed
some help on something, if he had the time, he would always come and give me a
quick hand. So as a neighbor, he was a really good neighbor."

Mr. Dudley said he never saw Mr. Muhammad lose his temper in the five years that
they were neighbors.

In March 1995, Mildred Muhammad, his second wife, helped him start a business,
Express Car/Truck Mechanic Service Inc., an automotive repair operation he ran
out of the couple's home. Customers described him a good mechanic, but an
erratic businessman. One client said Mr. Muhammad once called him to say that
not only was his car not ready, but that he also no longer had it and would have
to find him a replacement.

With a partner, Mr. Muhammad also opened a martial arts school in Tacoma in the
mid-1990's. The partner, Felix Strozier, said the business went well for a
while, but that there was a falling out over money that Mr. Muhammad borrowed
from the school and did not pay back.

"He was manipulative and would do anything to get his way," Mr. Strozier said.

Mr. Muhammad was also having problems with his first wife, Carol. The couple had
a bitter dispute over the custody of their son. When the boy was 12, he visited
his father in Washington State over the summer, converted to Islam and failed to
return until his mother got a court order, her sister Sheron Norman said.

Mr. Muhammad attended a mosque in Seattle, some former associates said. But
neighbors said he rarely went out of his way to talk about his religion.

"The only thing that really sticks out is, he was really excited that he was
attending the Million Man March," Mr. Dudley said.

He said that Mr. Muhammad helped provide security for Louis Farrakhan, the
leader of the Nation of Islam, who organized the march in Washington in 1995.
"When he came back, he told me that it was a great experience and he really
enjoyed the camaraderie and the feeling and all that stuff," Mr. Dudley said.

Mr. Muhammad's second marriage began to unravel in the late 1990's, over what
his second wife wife described as his abusive behavior toward their three
children.

They were separated on Sept. 8, 1999, when she was granted a permanent
restraining order against him. The order barred Mr. Muhammad from her home and
workplace and the school or day care facility of the children.

In May, 2000, in Pierce County, Wash., his second wife sought to limit Mr.
Muhammad's contact with their children, alleging "physical, sexual or a pattern
of emotional abuse of a child." Even after the restraining order was issued, she
said, she was afraid of him.

"He was demolitions expert in military," she wrote in a court document. "He is
behaving very irrational. Whenever he does talk with me he always says that is
going to destroy my life and I hang up the phone."

In federal weapons charges filed against Mr. Muhammad on Wednesday in Seattle,
the government cited a protection order against him in 2000. It said that he had
threatened his wife and children and was known to own a semiautomatic
.223-caliber Bushmaster rifle. It was this type of rifle that the police said
they found today in Mr. Muhammad's Chevrolet.

As part of the divorce settlement, Mr. Muhammads was ordered to pay child
support for the three children at $869 a month.

On Jan. 10, 2001, Mildred Muhammad signaled her intention to move from
Washington State and remain hidden from her ex-husband. She filed a court
document seeking to waive the requirements that she notify her husband of their
children's whereabouts. But in a hand-written notation in the document, Mildred
Muhammad said Mr. Muhammad had abducted the children more than nine months
earlier, and she did not know where they were.

"At the present time, my ex-husband, John, still has the children," she wrote.
"I've been awarded custody of the children. Their whereabouts are still unknown.
I am requesting this waiver so that when my children are found that I may be
able to remove them from the state legally and without notification to John
where we will be."

By May 2001, Ms. Muhammad had moved to the Prince George's County, Md.,
apparently with the children, and she worked last year as temporary employee at
the Justice Department. She filed documents in the county court and the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia to maintain her existing restraining order and
have it expanded to shield their children.

It is unclear how and when Mr. Muhammad met Uma James and her son, John Lee
Malvo. But about four years ago, Mr. Muhammad took the boy to the martial arts
school in Tacoma, where his partner, Mr. Strozier, gave him instruction.

"Sometimes a little bit too aggressive with the smaller kids," said Mr.
Strozier, referring to Mr. Malvo. "When I tried to bring it to his attention, he
also tried to be aggressive with me. But when I put him back in his place, he
sometimes would sort of bow his head and sometimes even would cry."

In October of last year, Mr. Malvo enrolled as a junior at Bellingham High
School. He showed up without any records of his prior education, and school
officials were unable to trace the boy's origins. The officials notified police
officers, who interviewed the boy but took no other action in the matter.

By the end of last year, Mr. Muhammad and Ms. James were apparently living
together in Bellingham. On Dec. 18, the police were called to settle a domestic
disturbance involving the couple.

After finding that she and her son were in the country illegally, the police
called the United States Border Patrol, which arrested them and turned them over
to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Mr. Malvo and his mother were
fingerprinted.

It was his fingerprint -- matched to others found at the scene of the
robbery-killing in Alabama and at the scene of the sniper shootings -- that
ultimately helped investigators to break the case.

By early this year, Mr. Malvo had dropped out of high school and was living with
Mr. Muhammad at the Lighthouse Mission, a homeless shelter in Bellingham. The
pair spent many weeks at the mission, but did not always seem to belong.

"I always thought, this guy has no visible means of support, but he's flying to
Jamaica, he's flying to D.C., to Louisiana," said Rory Reublin, a staff member.
"That's one of the nagging suspicions I had in the back of my head."

About six months ago in Tacoma, Mr. Muhammad paid a visit to an old Army friend,
Robert Edward Holmes. The two had served together at Fort Lewis.

According to a federal complaint filed on Wednesday in Seattle, Mr. Muhammad
brought along an AR-15 assault rifle with a scope, which he carried in an
aluminum briefcase. He also had a book on how make a silencer for a rifle, the
complaint said.

"Can you imagine the damage you could do if you could shoot with a silencer?"
Mr. Muhammad asked Mr. Holmes, the complaint said, adding that Mr. Muhammad
failed to make such a device and left behind its unassembled parts.

Witnesses to the shootings in Washington, although they rarely were able to
identify where the noise came from, consistently said that they had heard the
loud report of a rifle.

One person who spoke with Mr. Williams in the past month was Travis, who
relatives in Baton Rouge say is Mr. Muhammad's first son. He said his father had
called him regularly over the past two and a half month, but never revealed
where he was. Then, about 8 or 10 days ago, Mr. Muhammad left another message on
his son's answering machine.

"He said he loved me," said Travis, who asked that his last name not be used.
"He said he was about to hit the road again. He said to take care of my mom.."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: John Allen Muhammad was stationed at Fort Lewis, in Tacoma,
Wash., in the 1980's and 90's. (Reuters); Sheron Norman, a former in-law of John
Allen Muhammad, with a picture of him and John Lee Malvo. (Associated Press)(pg.
A30) Chart/Map: "Suspects' Stories Unfold"More details are known about John
Allen Muhammad, a 41-year-old American, than John Lee Malvo, a 17-year-old from
Jamaica. TRACING THEIR PATHSJohn Allen MuhammadJohn Lee MalvoBoth men together
1.) 1977 -- Graduated from Scotlandville High School near Baton Rouge,
La.1978-1985 -- Served in the Army National Guard1985 -- Divorced first wife,
with whom he had a son 2.) 1985 -- Joined the Army. Sent to Fort Lewis,
Wash.1990 -- Transferred to Germany 3.) 1992 -- Transferred to Fort Ord, Calif.
4.) 1993 -- Transferred to Fort LewisApril 1994 -- Discharged at Fort
Lewis1994-95 -- Served in Oregon National Guard 5.) Late 1990's -- Ran a karate
school in Tacoma, Wash. 6.) 2000 -- Divorced second wife, Mildred Green, with
whom he had three children. Ms. Green moved to Clinton, Md., with the children.
7.) 2001 -- Both men moved to Bellingham, Wash. 8.) July 2002 -- Visited Mr.
Muhammad's relatives and former in-laws in Baton Rouge 9.) Sept. 11, 2002 --
Registered a car in Camden, N.J. 10.) Sept. 21, 2002 -- Mr. Malvo is a suspect
in a liquor store shooting in Montgomery, Ala., where one woman was killed and
another was wounded. 11.) Oct. 24, 2002 -- Both men are arrested at a rest stop
near Frederick, Md. Map of the United States highlights the locations of the
events above.(pg. A30)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 27, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

RETRACING A TRAIL: IN THE CARIBBEAN;
Quiet Neighbor With a Quick Step

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1001 words

DATELINE: ST. JOHN'S, Antigua, Oct. 26


In the community of Ottos, where wood houses line the narrow streets and the
smell of barbecue drifts through the air along with the beat of soca music, John
Allen Muhammad was a quiet, hustling man. Though he socialized little, he was a
familiar sight walking briskly down the street, often with his children, with a
black knapsack on his way to parts unknown.

Most people said he arrived here about two years ago with three children in tow
-- two girls, Taliba and Selina, and a boy, John -- after having had marital
problems in the United States.

John Lee Malvo, a teenager most assumed was his son, arrived several months
later, moving into the single bedroom the family occupied in a house they shared
with 12 other people, mostly Jamaicans.

Mr. Muhammad, whom some people knew as John Allen Williams or John Allen Thomas,
traveled often to the United States, friends said, returning with items like
compact discs, batteries, over-the-counter medicines, power tools and cameras
that he sold to acquaintances and a local drug store.

"He told me he could get anything that anybody wanted," said one customer, who
would only give his name as Mr. Augustin. "That was the bottom line."

Indeed, one of his former housemates, Kithlyn Nedd, a mechanic, said that Mr.
Muhammad helped Jamaicans and other immigrants get Antiguan passports. Mr.
Augustin confirmed that Mr. Muhammad had offered to help people with fake
American birth certificates, Antiguan social security numbers and other
documents.

"He used to get passports for people," Mr. Nedd said. "He had some connection in
Antigua and Barbados. I think he has some connections in the American military."

Mr. Nedd said that Mr. Muhammad would obtain false birth certificates in the
name of a person who was to be traveling legitimately to Antigua. He said that
the would-be immigrant would then use the false papers and the valid return
ticket to leave the country.

Developments this week indicate that Mr. Muhammad may have fraudulently obtained
even the Antiguan passport that was issued to him on July 4, 2000. The
documents, which were released by the government on Friday, showed that he
obtained a passport because his mother, Eva Ferris, was born in Antigua.
However, Maxine Allen, Mrs. Ferris's daughter and a newscaster on Observer
Radio, said that her family had no relation to Mr. Muhammad.

Furthermore, even the government's documents show discrepancies in Mrs. Ferris's
age: Mr. Muhammad's Louisiana birth certificate has her as being 39 when he was
born in 1960, which would mean that she had been born in 1920 or 1921. However,
Mrs. Ferris's Antiguan birth certificate indicated she was born in 1929.

In 2000, friends recalled, Mr. Muhammad had a scuffle with immigration
authorities over the papers of one Jamaican who was trying to travel to the
United States. They said he spent the night in jail.

"He said it was a little problem with immigration at the airport," Mr. Augustin
said. "They took him to police headquarters. He said they held him until he
spoke to someone bigger on the force."

Superintendent Phillip Samuels, head of the Antiguan police criminal
investigation unit, would not comment on reports that the authorities were
looking into the airport incident. Despite repeated requests, officers at
headquarters said they could not locate the police commissioner, Truehart Smith.

Mr. Nedd said it was around the time of the run-in at the airport that Mr. Malvo
showed up at their home on Rose Street. Mr. Nedd said that Mr. Muhammad had
earlier helped Mr. Malvo's mother, Una James, get a false birth certificate to
go to the United States.

Mr. Muhammad was the kind of person Mr. Malvo looked up to, and he followed his
advice on athletics and diet. For a while, the two of them worked out with Khary
Bowen, a high school student.

Muhammad offered to train Khary for free. Khary, who was thinking of dropping
out of high school, admired the older man and came to think of him as a role
model.

"He always talked to me about keeping my body fit," Khary said. "He said a fit
body develops a good mind. He mainly helped me with my self-esteem. He told me
to stay in school and finish my education so I could reach my dreams in life."

Despite their workouts, he never told the boy much about his past. Nor did he
explain his periodic absences from the island.

"He did tell me once that he was fit because he was training for a lot of
years," Khary said. "But he never told me what he was training for."

While friends did not recall Muhammad offering up many details about his
personal life, they said he had told them that he had taken his three children
with him to Antigua after a bitter split with their mother.

He and the children shared a spartan room in the house on Rose Street. The three
children slept on the single bed while Mr. Muhammad, and later Mr. Malvo, rested
on a military duffel bag or a chair in the room.

Whenever he traveled, which friends said was as often as once a month, he left
the children in the care of a Jamaican woman known as Miss Dee, or Dolly, who
rented the house and had taken in the family out of a sense of Christian duty.

"He kept very close to the kids," Mr. Nedd said. "He spent a lot of time with
them, like he didn't want them to reveal anything. One kid was crying because
she wanted to see her mother, and he got upset. But he never was violent."

He kept just as tight a rein on the children when they would leave the house
with him.

"They all walked so fast, always hustling, even the little ones," Mr. Nelson
said. "They were in good shape. If I was walking with him, I'd have to run."

Muhammad cultivated a similar sort of relationship with Khary for a while,
before he left around May 2000 He had told the boy he was ready to take him to
the next stage physical combat skills.

"He was supposed to teach me about combat, how to wrestle if I was in a fight,"
Khary said. "The next morning I got up to meet him and they told me he was not
there. The next day, nobody was there. They had disappeared."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A former housemate said John Lee Malvo, left, and John Allen
Muhammad, right, once lived in a house in St. John's, Antigua. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 27, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

URBAN TACTICS;
For Halloween, Candy as Sweet As the Old Country

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 114 words


NEW York's immigrant children may be light years ahead of their parents in
adopting American customs, as the preponderance of Bangladeshi Spider-Men and
Peruvian SpongeBobs in the streets this Halloween should demonstrate.

But children's sweet teeth don't necessarily become American as fast as the rest
of them.

In stores throughout the city's immigrant neighborhoods, wonderfully unusual
imported candy is as common as Hershey's Kisses. And although many immigrant
families will hand out traditional American candy on Thursday, other, more
unexpected items may find their way into trick-or-treat bags. Here are favorites
among some of New York's newer ethnic groups.

SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: EAST ASIA -- Japanese gum; from China, White Rabbit candy,
ginger candy, corn suckers that taste like sugary corn porridge, apple-flavored
chews, dried-plum hard candy popular among pregnant women; MIDDLE EAST --
Natural gum from Egypt, Lebanese fruit-filled chocolate, sugary Lebanese candies
made of sesame, pistachio or almonds, Shaarawi Bros. spiced gum from Jordan;
RUSSIA/BELARUS -- Coconut-covered Belarussian truffles; from Moscow, Limping
Bear chocolates and Crawfish Neck hard candy made with cacao and peanuts;
COLOMBIA/ECUADOR -- From Colombia, coffee hard candy, Bon Bon Bum lollipops and
Supercoco nougat; from Ecuador, liquid-filled Kataboom gum and colorfully
wrapped chocolate bars with peanuts; JAMAICA -- Sweet and sour tamarind balls,
fruity Paradise Plums; INDIA -- Gem sesame balls, Mango Mood and fennel-flavored
Pan Pasand hard candy; MEXICO -- Miguelito chili powder and sugar, chili with
tamarind, chili-covered corncob-shaped lollipops (Photographs by Tony
Cenicola/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Midwest: Iowa: G.O.P. Repudiates Candidate

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 113 words


Republican leaders withdrew their support of a candidate for the state House who
questioned whether her opponent could represent Iowans since she is an immigrant
from India.

The Republican candidate, Karen Balderston of Central City, made her comments
about her Democratic opponent, Swati Dandekar, in a Sept. 29 e-mail message to a
conservative political action committee. "Without having had the growing-up
experience in Iowa, complete with the intrinsic basics of Midwest American life,
how is this person adequately prepared to represent Midwest values and core
beliefs?" Ms. Balderston wrote. Ms. Dandekar, 51, who has lived in Iowa for 30
years, declined to comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

As TV Cameras Roll, Haitians Dash From Stranded Boat to the Florida Shore

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 29


About 200 Haitian refugees jumped off a stranded wooden freighter this afternoon
into the shallows off Key Biscayne, lunging through chest-deep water in a
scramble to evade the Coast Guard and the police and to complete their desperate
journey to Miami.

With news helicopters capturing them live on national television, dozens of
Haitians, many in their Sunday best, flooded onto a causeway leading to Miami,
about a mile away, as police officers converged. Many refugees tried to jump
into passing cars and pickup trucks, begging for rides.

Parents dropped children from the boat into the arms of other refugees and
rescue workers. A pregnant refugee was taken to the hospital, the police said.

The boat arrived about 3:30 p.m. just off the Rickenbacker Causeway, which links
Miami to Key Biscayne, an affluent barrier island community. The Miami police
closed the causeway for about two hours, clogging rush-hour traffic as they
searched for refugees under a bridge and in bushes.

"A lot of them were trying to get off the bridge and use any vehicle at their
disposal to do so," said Delrish Moss, a police spokesman. "We will never know
how many got away."

At a makeshift command post, officials from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service processed dozens of detained Haitians, many wrapped in yellow blankets.
The refugees were put on buses and taken to detention centers. Coast Guard
representatives said that the Haitians were generally in good health but that
some suffered from dehydration. None were believed to have drowned.

Petty Officer Anastasia Burns said the Coast Guard had two aircraft and 12
vessels trying to find refugees. "We're doing a search of the entire area to
make sure no people are left on the water that we may have missed," Petty
Officer Burns said. "We are conducting a search effort to make sure we've
rescued everyone. We have no reports of injuries or fatalities yet."

When asked how a boat full of Haitians could have come so close to shore without
being detected, a Coast Guard spokesman said the freighter was typical of those
that clog the shipping lanes off Miami, and thus did not stand out the way an
overcrowded passenger boat or raft might have.

One of Haitians, Yolette Baptiste, a woman with two children, said she had paid
someone to make the trip. "We were at sea for eight days," Ms. Baptiste said in
Creole just before a police officer ordered her onto a bus.

Witnesses described watching a heart-wrenching struggle for freedom. "It was
very frightening to see," said Mayra Vidal, 44, who lives on Key Biscayne and
was driving on the causeway when she spotted the boat. Ms. Vidal said the
children caught her attention, and one in particular "stuck out in my mind."

"This little girl in a party dress with two bows in her hair," she said. "It
broke my heart. They dressed her up to celebrate."

Marleine Bastien, executive director of Haitian Women in Miami, a Haitian
advocacy group, described similar scenes. "The children that we saw were
shivering, cold and hungry," Ms. Bastien said.

In Miami's Little Haiti neighborhood, people took to the streets with signs
demanding that the detainees be allowed to remain in the United States.

That is unlikely. Under a Bush administrative directive that does not apply to
refugees of any other nationality, Haitians seeking political asylum are held in
detention centers pending the dispositions of their cases. All others are to be
returned to Haiti.

Civil rights advocates and a growing number of lawmakers from both parties have
criticized the policy as discriminatory. The immigrants' advocates said that
today's events were powerful evidence of just how dire life in Haiti had become.

"Haitians will still risk their lives to make it here because things out there
are so bad," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida Immigrant
Advocacy Center. "It's very difficult for them to apply for political asylum,
and it's very unfair. Fortunately, Cubans don't have to go through that."

By United States law, Cubans picked up at sea are returned to their country, but
those who make it ashore are permitted to remain.

Immigration service officials did not return calls for comment today, but the
agency has long said that the policy of detaining the Haitians is necessary to
deter thousands from taking to sea in rickety rafts and flooding South Florida,
or dying en route.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Police officers detained Haitian refugees yesterday on the
Rickenbacker Causeway in Miami. The refugees' boat had run aground, and they
began coming ashore near Hobie Beach. (Associated Press) Map of Miami
highlighting the Rickenbacker Causeway

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 9, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Zimbabwe Bars Blair Over Visa Policy

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 171 words

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, Nov. 8


Zimbabwe has barred Prime Minister Tony Blair and 93 other British officials
from visiting the country and has set new visa requirements for British citizens
hoping to travel there.

The move came one day after the British government announced that it would
require most Zimbabweans to apply for visas in an effort to reduce the number of
illegal immigrants from that country.

Many people, both black and white, are leaving Zimbabwe, which has been racked
by political violence and economic hardship.

In February, just before elections in Zimbabwe, the European Union and the
United States used a travel ban to punish Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe,
and his inner circle. They were not allowed to travel to the United States under
sanctions imposed to protest an election campaign that the Bush administration
said was "marred by political violence and intimidation."

The European Union imposed a visa ban on President Mugabe and 19 officials
because of the way Zimbabwe treated observers sent to monitor the election.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 9, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Bush Remark Gives Advocates Hope for Release of Haitians

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 8


A day after President Bush said his administration would make sure that Haitian
refugees were treated like all asylum seekers of other nationalities,
immigration groups and Haitian advocates had mixed reactions about whether his
remarks would soon lead to the release of hundreds of refugees being detained
here.

Mr. Bush made the remarks at a news conference on Thursday. He said Haitians
should be treated the same as all migrants, except Cubans. "And the difference,
of course," he said. "is that we don't send people back to Cuba because they're
going to be persecuted."

Mr. Bush added, "Haitians and everybody else ought to be treated the same way,
and we're in the process of making sure that happens."

Under a Bush administration policy adopted in December, Haitians seeking asylum
in the United States are held in indefinite detention during the processing of
their immigration claims. Immigration advocates and a growing number of local
and national lawmakers oppose the policy because it does not apply to migrants
of any other nationality.

Debate over the issue was renewed last month when a boat carrying more than 200
Haitians ran aground in the shallow waters off the Miami shore. The Haitians on
board were taken into the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
and remain in local detention centers.

Mr. Bush's comments Thursday have sparked widespread speculation about whether
the detainees might soon be released and have prompted lawmakers and immigration
advocates to begin to plan how to hold the president to his word.

"He can make things happen with the new power he's got," said State
Representative Phillip Brutus, a Miami Democrat who was the first
Haitian-American elected to the Florida Legislature. "However, I am concerned
the administration may convince him to depart from that.

"Particularly mentioning Haitians by name means the crisis must have reached
him," Mr. Brutus said. "He must have thought about it. I give him great credit
for that because he had never said anything before."

Others were not so sure. "The president wasn't clear," said Marleine Bastien,
executive director of Haitian Women in Miami, an advocacy group. "We've been
getting a lot of phone calls from people wondering about what it meant; did it
mean a change in policy," she said. "If that is it, he needs to state it very
clearly to prevent any kind of confusion."

Ms. Bastien said her group and others were planning to send a joint letter to
the president asking him to clarify his position.

James Morrell, executive director of the Haiti Democracy Project, an
organization that monitors American policy toward Haiti, said not much could be
read into the president's response. "I think it's a statement that gives no
indication of whether things will change, and that's why I took the president's
statement with a grain of salt," he said.

Mr. Morrell took issue with President Bush's statement that Cubans should be
treated differently from Haitians because of their risk of political
persecution. "Many from Haiti are politically persecuted, and so the difference
between them and the Cubans is not valid," he said.

Some Haitian advocates said they remained hopeful. "I think this was a very
important message," said Cheryl Little, executive director of the Florida
Immigrant Advocacy Center. "I don't know if he is as aware as he should be about
the way asylum seekers from other nations are treated in the Miami district. If
he is, then he understands, given his statement, that the Haitians need to be
released right away."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 10, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS;
To Asians a Spicy Chew, to Doctors a Deadly Habit

BYLINE:  By DANIELLE KNIGHT

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 559 words


The paan stores are easy to find in Jackson Heights. Just look for red gobs of
spit on the sidewalk on 37th Street.

For centuries, South Asians have chewed paan, a sweet mixture of lime paste,
cardamom, fennel, honey, areca nut and, often though not always, flavored
tobacco, all wrapped in a betel leaf. They placed the concoction in their
cheeks, relished the flavor and then spit out the juice.

But that imported habit is beginning to worry health professionals who see a
growing epidemic of oral cancer in India spreading to immigrants in New York.

Malik, a middle-aged Pakistani who sells hand-rolled paan at the Megna Paan Shop
on 37th Avenue, has been chewing since he was a teenager. It shows. He teeth are
rotten and stained a rusty-red. His lips are covered with red paan juice. "It's
good to eat after a meal," he said of the gooey substance. "It helps with
digestion."

It is unclear just how many Queens residents chew paan. But as the number of
Pakistan, Indian and Bangladeshi immigrants in the borough grows, the sight of a
rotten, russet-stained mouths has become common. The number of Queens residents
who identified themselves as Asian, most of them immigrants from South Asia and
China, rose from 5 percent in 1980 to 18 percent in 2000.

Two stores on 37th Avenue, the hub of South Asian merchants in Queens, sell
fresh paan. Imported packaged versions of dried paan without the betel leaf,
known as paan masala and gutka, are easily found. Many vending stalls and Indian
grocers along Little India's commercial thoroughfare sell the small sachets for
about $1.

Physicians and health professionals are worried. "We are definitely concerned
about gutka use," said Sukirti Bagal, director of the American Cancer Society's
Asian Tobacco Initiative. "It is widely used, but unlike smoking, it is not
considered taboo or addictive. Many people don't think it is tobacco, because it
is mixed with other spices. They think it just gives them good breath or that it
helps with digestion."

India has about 50,000 new cases of oral cancers a year, the world's highest
incidence, according to the World Health Organization. Doctors and public health
scientists say gutka and other forms of smokeless chewing tobacco are to blame.
In August, in response to mounting deaths caused by oral cancer, the Indian
state Maharashtra placed a five-year ban on the production, sale and transport
of gutka.

"We need to inform the Indian community that these are not harmless products,"
said Dr. Chandurpal Gehani, who has a dental practice in Jackson Heights and is
president-elect of the Queens County Dental Society.

A few stores in Jackson Heights say they do not sell gutka because they know it
is harmful. Vijay Sanotra, manager of the Apna Bazaar on 37th Avenue, says his
imported packets of paan masala contain no tobacco. But it was unclear what the
packets actually did contain. No ingredients were listed. Still, like cigarette
packs sold in the United States, the sachet carried the warning: "Chewing of Pan
Masala May Be Injurious to Health."

Malik at the Megna Paan Shop does not understand what all the fuss is about. He
refuses to believe that chewing tobacco causes cancer and says he will not stop
selling it.

"Some people who don't smoke or chew gutka have cancer," he said. "So how can
you say that tobacco causes cancer?"

DANIELLE KNIGHT

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bhaskar Shriyan making paan in his stall on 37th Avenue. "It
helps with digestion," says one Jackson Heights man who sells the stuff.
(Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

8 Cubans in 2-Seat Plane Land in Key West Seeking Asylum

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 303 words

DATELINE: KEY WEST, Fla., Nov. 11


A two-seat cargo plane crammed with eight members of a Cuban family landed today
at the Key West airport in an apparent bid for asylum by those aboard.

The yellow biplane was escorted by two American fighter jets as it landed late
in the morning, Peter Horton, the airport director, said.

Under American law, Cubans who reach American soil are virtually guaranteed the
right to stay and apply eventually for permanent residency.

The Cubans were being interviewed and were expected to be released to relatives
in Florida, said Maria Elena Garcia, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The group consisted of four men, three women and an infant girl, Ms. Garcia
said.

One of the men is an experienced pilot, she said.

It was not immediately known from where the Cubans took off. The authorities did
not release their names.

Two Florida National Guard jets were scrambled from the Homestead Air Reserve
Base after the plane was spotted on radar, Lt. Col. Ron Tittle, a Guard
spokesman, said.

"We shadowed them and got the aircraft to divert to Key West," Colonel Tittle
said. "That's a typical type thing."

There was no immediate comment from the Cuban government on the incident.

There was no mention of the incident on state-controlled radio or on government
television's midday news report.

Cubans have used a variety of mostly Soviet-built aircraft to leave their
homeland in recent years. Some were stolen by their pilots; others were
hijacked.

A stolen crop-duster carrying 10 Cubans ran low on fuel in September 2000 and
ditched in the Gulf of Mexico. One man drowned.

One of the largest groups came in 1992 when a Soviet twin-engine turboprop
operated by Cuba's Aero Caribbean landed in Miami with a defecting pilot and 52
others.

The co-pilot and four others later returned to Cuba with the plane.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cargo plane that took eight people to Florida from Cuba, sat
at the Key West airport yesterday. (Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 12, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Telling a Tale Of Immigrants Whose Stories Go Untold

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words


For nine years Sandra Cisneros kept busy writing poetry, short stories and
essays, but all along she was nurturing a longer project, one about a family,
spanning 100 years and three generations and taking place on both sides of the
Mexican border.

That book, a novel called "Caramelo," has just been published, and for Ms.
Cisneros this constitutes a major literary event. This is only her second novel;
her first was the hugely successful "House on Mango Street," published in 1984
by Arte Publico Press and reissued by Random House in 1991. The story of a
Mexican-American girl coming of age in Chicago, that novel has sold about two
million copies in 11 languages, making Ms. Cisneros one of the best-selling
Hispanic authors in the United States.

But Ms. Cisneros, 47, was not hurried along by success. "Caramelo" (the title
refers to a color and to a type of rebozo, or shawl) developed slowly and, she
says, "organically" over nearly a decade. It grew out of her desire to honor her
father as he approached the end of his life (he died in 1997) by telling his
story. It is essentially the tale of a Mexican who is not unlike the millions of
other immigrants to this country whose stories go untold.

"I never saw an upholsterer in American literature," Ms. Cisneros said. Her
father, Alfredo Cisneros, had an upholstery business in Chicago that is now run
by three of his sons. "He was such an example of generosity and honest labor,"
she said. "I didn't want people to erase him."

Her father used to drive his family -- his daughter, six sons and his
Mexican-American wife -- from Chicago to his native Mexico every summer to visit
his mother. One summer, during an outing to a beach in Acapulco, Ms. Cisneros
got the idea for a short story she said she could never finish.

"I knew too much about everybody," she explained. "I kept branching off into
other substories, other plots."

So she ended up writing a novel more than 400 pages long, with a plot like that
of a telenovela (or soap opera), about her ancestors and their progeny,
including extra commentary in copious footnotes. It is partly true, partly
fiction, and written in "little pieces," Ms. Cisneros said. "I have invented
what I do not know and exaggerated what I do, to continue the family tradition
of telling healthy lies," she writes in her book. She said she wrote
intuitively, waiting to find the patterns, meandering without being necessarily
lost.

"I knew what I didn't want," she said. "I didn't want a typical linear,
conventional novel. I didn't want 'The House on Mango Street.' I had done that.
I wanted something more challenging."

Ms. Cisneros did not settle on the structure of the narrative until three or
four years into the writing, when she heard a know-it-all voice, an interior
critic not unlike one of her brothers nagging her about a dress she was wearing.
In "Caramelo," that voice comes from her paternal grandmother, or "the awful
grandmother." The character is described with humor from the point of view of
Ms. Cisneros's own mother, "who didn't get along" with her mother-in-law at all,
and who interrupts the book's storytelling with her own take on things.

While "Mango Street" found an almost cult following among young Latinas and
English teachers, "Caramelo" seems to be striking a chord among a wider
audience, particularly immigrants. A recent reading in New Braunfels, a Texas
town settled by Germans, drew a mostly older crowd of women and men who, Ms.
Cisneros found, identified with her description of people as "walking libraries"
and her attempt to capture some of their knowledge in her characters.

"People to me are like walking Smithsonians," she said, "and when they die, all
this goes with them unless you document it."

Ms. Cisneros's writing is often described by her readers as poetic yet
accessible, even when she sprinkles it with Spanish words that go untranslated.
(They make sense to English speakers in context.) "Caramelo," published by
Alfred A. Knopf in both English and Spanish, is her seventh book. Her others
include a short-story collection, "Woman Hollering Creek and Other Stories"; a
children's book, "Hairs/Pelitos"; and several poetry books.

"The House on Mango Street" has become part of the curriculum of many middle
schools, high schools and colleges and this year became Miami's selection for
its One Book, One Community program, fashioned after similar programs in cities
around the country. The project, which features public readings and discussions,
invites people to read the same book at the same time.

Carol Jago, an English teacher at Santa Monica High School in California who
wrote "Sandra Cisneros in the Classroom," a teacher's guide published this year
by the National Council of Teachers of English, said that "The House on Mango
Street" became a hit among teachers because it was "a work of art" that was not
very long and whose subject and language were appropriate for teenagers in a
classroom.

"It came at the right time," Ms. Jago added, "when so many of us were so
desperately looking for a Latino writer, to bring into our classrooms more
multicultural literature."

Ms. Cisneros is part of the early wave of Hispanic writers who helped supply the
books for the often controversial ethnic and women's studies programs added to
university curriculums in the 1970's and 80's, said Nicolas Kanellos, director
of Arte Publico, a nonprofit imprint of the University of Houston that first
published "Mango Street" and is the largest publisher of Latino writers in the
United States.

Mr. Kanellos characterized Ms. Cisneros's work as part of a Latino literary
culture written in English dating back to the 1960's, whose themes revolve
around issues of identity, cultural conflict within the United States and the
place of women in society.

But Ms. Cisneros, he said, has been one of the few to break away as a
"front-list author" for a major publishing house. Although the market has
widened for Latino writers, Mr. Kanellos said, they are still largely
underrepresented among the big publishers and bookstore chains, which he said
were still doubtful that they could make much money on Latin-theme books in
English or Spanish.

"For 35 million people," he said of the Hispanic population in the United
States, "we still have a real lack of representation and opportunity to reflect
our lives through writing."

Yet if Ms. Cisneros's father had had his way, his only daughter, the third
oldest of his seven children, would have picked a more financially secure
profession or at least married.

"He thought I was just choosing to live in poverty," she said.

Ms. Cisneros, who was born and grew up in Chicago, graduated from Loyola
University and attended the Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa. She
returned to Chicago to teach but in 1984 decided to move to San Antonio to be
closer to the border that defines her bicultural identity.

There she became embroiled in a widely publicized controversy when her Mexican
pride clashed with local sensibilities. In the late 1990's, when she painted her
house in the King William neighborhood a pre-Columbian purple, city preservation
officials deemed the color historically incorrect and unsuitable for the
Victorian neighborhood, and wanted it changed.

"Depends on whose history you're talking about," was Ms. Cisneros's response.
"This is San Antonio, not St. Anthony's."

The house has since become a tourist attraction, although the dispute, like the
color in the Texas sun, eventually faded. Purple turned to blue, and "the house
is legal now," she said.

Ms. Cisneros, who shares her house with four dogs, three cats and a parrot (a
boyfriend, a filmmaker, lives in Austin), said she was hardly a rebel. She is a
Buddhist who believes in compassion, nonviolence and "putting my writing to
service," she said. She has a new tattoo on her left arm that she calls "the
Buddhalupe," the Virgin of Guadalupe in the Lotus position.

Her writing, at least for the near future, will most likely be more poetry and
short stories. Asked about her next novel, she said only half-jokingly: "You
know what? I feel like a dog that has just given birth to 13 puppies. So don't
talk about my next book right now. I'm still panting here."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sandra Cisneros, a Mexican-American author, has written her
second novel. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. E1); (pg. E7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 14, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: INQUIRY;
I.N.S. Suspends 5 After Man Suspected of Having Hezbollah Ties Becomes U.S.
Citizen

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 878 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service has begun an internal review to
determine how a man suspected of having ties to the Islamic radical group
Hezbollah was able to become a naturalized United States citizen, several agency
officials said yesterday.

As part of the administrative review, five agency employees in New York and
Newark, including the senior official in charge of investigations in New York
and a supervisor who oversees terrorism cases, were placed on paid leave on
Tuesday, according to several officials who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

"Last week, the Immigration and Naturalization Service initiated a review of a
matter involving the New York and the Newark district offices," said Nancy
Cohen, a spokeswoman for the agency in Washington. "Several employees have been
placed on administrative leave."

Ms. Cohen said the agency would not discuss the matter further, citing the
nature of the review.

Several law enforcement officials said the review was undertaken because a man
under scrutiny by the F.B.I.-N.Y.P.D. Joint Terrorist Task Force became a
naturalized citizen last month. The officials said the man was suspected of
having ties to Hezbollah, a guerrilla group based in Lebanon that the United
States government has designated as a foreign terrorist organization.

A file containing allegations against the man, whose name could not be
determined yesterday, was in the hands of investigators on the task force in New
York, but was apparently not reviewed by the I.N.S. employees in Newark who
handled the man's citizenship application, the officials said.

It was unclear whether the task force agents knew that the man had applied for
citizenship or why the I.N.S. file would not have been forwarded to Newark,
officials said.

The joint task force includes agents from the immigration service and several
other federal, state and local law enforcement agencies.

Among those placed on administrative leave were two I.N.S. adjudicators in
Newark who had some role in the naturalization of the man, officials said. In
addition, Dan Molerio, the assistant district director for investigations,
Richard Coraggio, an I.N.S. supervisor on the task force, and an I.N.S. agent on
the task force were also placed on administrative leave.

All five are on leave for an unspecified period during the review, which will be
conducted by the agency's Office of Internal Audit. An I.N.S. official said that
the move was not punitive and that all five would continue to receive their
salaries.

Messages left for Mr. Coraggio on his office telephones were not returned.
Efforts to reach Mr. Molerio were unsuccessful.

Lawrence Berger, the general counsel for the Federal Law Enforcement Officers
Association, which represents some of the employees, said they were put on leave
to make it possible to conduct an impartial review.

"There does not appear to be any misconduct investigation or allegations of
misconduct," Mr. Berger said. "They want to see, did the system work or not work
in this instance. Healthy bureaucracies need mechanisms of self-correction."

Several officials said it was unusual to put so many people on leave, especially
when some of them are ranking supervisors.

The details of how the man became a citizen were unclear yesterday, and several
officials said the investigation into any ties he might have to Hezbollah had
not yet been completed. It was also unclear whether any action would be taken to
withdraw his citizenship, a lengthy procedure that is very rare.

The naturalization process includes fingerprint checks with the F.B.I. Citizens
of foreign countries seeking American citizenship must provide a letter from
their local Police Department saying that they have never been arrested, and
they must be interviewed by an I.N.S. examiner, who administers a history test
and makes sure they understand English. Applicants must also take an oath to
support the principles of the United States Constitution.

Since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the
immigration agency has played an increasingly important role in the government's
antiterrorism efforts. A series of widely publicized bureaucratic missteps,
including the mailing of visa extensions to two of the dead Sept. 11 hijackers
six months after the attack, have undermined the agency's credibility.

Efforts to create a new Department of Homeland Security in Washington, which
moved forward in Congress yesterday as the House approved a revised Homeland
Security bill, could absorb the immigration service entirely and split it into
two parts. A Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration would report to a deputy
secretary, while the role of protecting borders would fall under a higher
official, an undersecretary.

Representative F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin, the chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee and a leading critic of the I.N.S., is helping to
shape how the immigration agency would fit into a new Homeland Security
Department. Late yesterday, he said he had ordered his staff members to look
into how a man under investigation with ties to a terrorist group could become a
citizen. "This case raises the disturbing question: 'If the I.N.S. can't track
suspected terrorists, how can they track anybody?' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 16, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Drug Dealers Turning U.S. Towns Into Major Depots

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1873 words

DATELINE: DALTON, Ga.


This sturdy town in the Appalachian foothills likes to call itself "the carpet
capital of the world," and its industry has thrived over the last decade as
thousands of Mexican immigrants have flocked to jobs in the mills.

More recently, though, federal and local law enforcement officials say the same
pipeline of immigration and trade has been exploited by Mexican drug
traffickers, who have helped turn this corner of northwestern Georgia into a
busy distribution center for methamphetamine and other drugs.

In Dalton and surrounding areas, drug arrests have steadily risen since the late
1990's, police officials said. Gang-related violence has become common. Outside
the police headquarters, a fenced-in lot is perpetually filled with cars, most
of them impounded from people suspected of being in the drug trade.

"We keep arresting people and seizing drugs, but they just keep coming," said
Chief James D. Chadwick of the Dalton police. "We're in a boat with a big hole.
We can keep bailing, but the hole's still there."

Dalton is by no means alone. From Alaska to South Carolina, law enforcement
officials said, Mexican traffickers have taken advantage of spreading Mexican
immigration and freer North American trade to establish themselves as the
dominant wholesale suppliers of illegal drugs across much of the United States.

The officials said the shift, in which the Mexicans have both displaced other
traffickers and opened new markets themselves, has meant a steadily more
efficient flow of drugs into the United States, even as border controls have
tightened since Sept. 11.

For the traffickers, places like Dalton are often excellent sites to do
business, close to growing rural markets and within easy highway access of big
cities -- in Dalton's case, Atlanta, Chattanooga and Charlotte, among others.
The towns offer the cover of hard-working immigrants and a pool of potential
recruits among the out of luck and unemployed.

By establishing new distribution hubs far inside the United States, the
traffickers are also posing new problems for undermanned rural police forces and
for federal agencies like the Drug Enforcement Administration that have long
concentrated their resources in border cities.

Traffickers from Mexico have long sold marijuana and heroin in American cities,
particularly in the West and Southwest. Since the late 1980's, officials said,
they have also contracted with drug producers in Colombia and elsewhere to
smuggle most of the cocaine that enters the United States.

But in the last decade, according to government officials and a series of
reports on drug surveillance, Mexican traffickers have come to control
considerably more of the United States' illegal drug supply.

They have improved the quality and increased the output of Mexican heroin and
marijuana. They have negotiated to receive more cocaine from South American
producers as in-kind payment for the loads they smuggle into the United States.
They pioneered the large-scale production of methamphetamine, the United States'
fastest-growing illegal drug, and they have scrambled to start producing other
synthetic drugs like MDMA, or ecstasy.

"They have certainly emerged as the major wholesalers throughout the country,"
said Michael T. Horn, director of the National Drug Intelligence Center, a
Justice Department agency that analyzes drug trafficking in the United States.
"Their influence is moving aggressively eastward, and they are very aggressive
about getting into parts of the drug trade that transcend their traditional
involvement in marijuana and heroin."

Although it is impossible to determine how much of the drug trade Mexicans
control, federal prosecutions point to their growing role. From 1994 to 2000,
the number of Mexican citizens jailed in the United States on federal
drug-trafficking charges nearly doubled, to 8,752 from 4,394.

Like the legitimate businessmen energized by the loosening of North American
trade, the traffickers have sought new economies of scale, taken advantage of
the freer movement of Mexican trucking into the United States and even shifted
some production closer to consumers.

In Hawaii, drug intelligence officials said, Mexican distributors have now
overtaken Asian organized-crime groups as the primary suppliers of crystal
methamphetamine, or "ice," which is the islands' most serious drug problem.

In the Central Valley of California, Mexican methamphetamine producers have
built scores of so-called super labs that turn out 10 or 20 times the amount of
drugs that biker gangs and other traffickers historically produced, federal
reports show. Elsewhere in the state, Mexican traffickers have begun growing
marijuana in national forests.

From bases on the West Coast, officials said, the Mexican traffickers have moved
across the Northwest and Midwest, hiding among fruit pickers in Washington,
resort workers in Colorado and construction workers in Minnesota.

Like the Los Angeles street gangs that helped spread crack in the late 1980's,
Mexican traffickers have followed Interstate highways to the Southeast, feeding
a surge in methamphetamine use in states like Georgia, North Carolina and
Tennessee. They have also built bases in New York, Florida and other former
strongholds of Colombian dealers.

So far, the Mexican traffickers' growing role in wholesale distribution in the
United States has been accomplished with relatively little violence, officials
said. In part, they said, that is a consequence of the breakup of Colombian
cocaine cartels and the Colombians' focus on more profitable markets in Europe.

In many areas, officials said, Mexican traffickers have worked cooperatively
with Colombian and Dominican traffickers, offering drugs on credit and helping
to launder the profits. In other instances, the Mexicans have carved out sales
turf by underselling Dominicans, Nigerians and American-born traffickers.

Mexican traffickers have also become more efficient, drug intelligence officials
said. By smuggling large numbers of smaller drug loads across the border and
around the United States in the process known as shotgunning, they have lowered
the risk and thereby reduced transportation costs. By moving their distribution
hubs away from the border, to the areas around cities like Atlanta and Chicago,
they have kept drug supplies and prices more stable.

"The southwest border isn't along the Rio Grande anymore," said W. Michael
Furgason, the special agent in charge of the Drug Enforcement Administration's
Atlanta office. "It's in Atlanta and North Carolina and Chicago and even Yonkers
and New Rochelle."

In addition, some Mexican drug gangs, like Colombian cartels before them, have
organized themselves into networks of smaller, semiautonomous units responsible
for specific tasks like building false compartments in cars or obtaining the
chemicals to make synthetic drugs, officials say.

Those smaller groups may be even harder for law enforcement agencies to pursue,
as is becoming evident in places like Dalton. Despite the city's changing
demographics, the Dalton police force has only one fluent Spanish speaker among
its 86 officers, and almost no capacity to infiltrate tight-knit Mexican
criminal groups.

"The chances of these people getting caught are now somewhere between slim and
none," Chief Chadwick said. "If the state patrol stops somebody on the highway
and gets a load nowadays, it's pure accident."

Dalton has long had its share of drug problems, and its drug users remained
overwhelmingly white and African-American. Police officials said drug abuse
remained relatively low among Hispanic residents, who make up 22 to 35 percent
of the 45,000 residents of the greater Dalton region.

But where local methamphetamine cooks might turn out a couple of pounds of the
drug at a time, Mexican traffickers offer much larger quantities and lower
prices, police officials said, attracting dealers from nearby areas of Tennessee
and North Carolina as well as Georgia.

"The sad truth is that our community is becoming known as a key area for the
distribution and manufacture of narcotics," members of a Whitfield County grand
jury wrote earlier this year in an unusual open letter to local newspapers.

The Mexican traffickers are notably low profile, and police officials say the
immigrant workers on whom they prey are similarly discreet.

T. Jefferson Morris, a Spanish-speaking criminal defense lawyer in Salisbury,
N.C., said he had seen a clear pattern in the recruitment of drug couriers.
"Within two weeks of one of these guys' losing his job," Mr. Morris said, "he
will be approached by somebody who will say: 'I know you have a family and you
need money. I'll give you $1,500 to deliver something for me.' "

When the couriers are arrested, they often do not know whom they are working
for, and while the police might jail them, the traffickers can usually do worse
-- like threatening their families back in Mexico.

When federal and state law enforcement agents in Kannapolis, N.C., stopped
Mexicans in a car carrying 27 pounds of methamphetamine, with a wholesale value
of about $175,000, they were struck by more than the quantity of drugs.

The car, bought in Atlanta, had been driven to Southern California, outfitted
with a hidden compartment for drugs, agents said, and an atlas showed the
courier had simply headed east on Interstate 40 until reaching a trailer park on
the edge of Kannapolis.

Federal law enforcement officials said much of the area's methamphetamine
appeared to originate in the western Mexican state of Michoacan and in
California, with clans of Mexican traffickers who dispatch their members to
supervise distribution of the drugs in the United States.

"They deal with their own people and no one else, and they are extremely
difficult to penetrate," a federal official said.

Nor do the Mexican distributors in the United States seem to have been weakened
by a series of recent arrests of major traffickers in Mexico.

So far, the growing presence of Mexican drug distributors has yet to create much
of a backlash for the immigrant workers they hide among. Even in places like
Dalton -- where Mexicans are credited with helping save jobs in plants that
might have moved elsewhere because of labor shortages -- the drug problem has
begun to unnerve some of those who have tried to help accommodate the newcomers.

Unlike business leaders in some neighboring cities, those in Dalton have
strongly supported Mexican immigrants, calling them saviors of a carpet industry
weakened by aging American workers.

Nonetheless, the town sits in a region that is still growing accustomed to the
presence of Mexican grocers and taquerias, and where the new immigrants still
prompt fights at school-board meetings and occasional marches by the Ku Klux
Klan.

"There are people everywhere in New York and Los Angeles, and in Dalton, Ga.,
who are going to say, 'These people are not like us; their morals are
different,' " said Erwin Mitchell, a former Democratic congressman who founded
an innovative program to absorb Latino children into the local schools.

"But this is a place where not one American job has been lost to immigrant
workers," Mr. Mitchell added. "And because of these immigrant workers, thousands
of jobs have been saved for Americans."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The wholesale value of this 27 pounds of methamphetamine seized
by state law-enforcement agents in Kannapolis, N.C., was about $175,000.; "We
keep arresting people and seizing drugs, but they just keep coming," said Chief
James D. Chadwick of the Dalton, Ga., police. (Robin Nelson for The New York
Times)(pg. A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 17, 2002 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Tackling Foreign Students' Visa Troubles, Fairleigh Dickinson Finds Errors in
I.N.S. Database

BYLINE:   By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 591 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 16


Want to attend Fairleigh Dickinson University's School of Dentistry? The
Immigration and Naturalization Service says you can, even though the dental
school shut down a dozen years ago.

How about attending its Rutherford campus? That, too, is still open, but only in
the world according to the I.N.S. computer system. In the real world, Fairleigh
Dickinson sold its Rutherford campus eight years ago.

The largest private university in New Jersey, Fairleigh Dickinson found itself
tangled in bureaucracy over the last two months, as a problem in the I.N.S.
computer system blocked foreign students accepted for admission this January
from obtaining visas.

Late Thursday night, after two months of phone calls, the involvement of a
congressman and finally a query from a reporter, the I.N.S. fixed the problem.

University officials were elated, until they realized that changes at the
university, about which they had notified the immigration service repeatedly
over the last decade, were apparently ignored.

"The good news is that 60 days of exasperation seem to have come to an end, but
the same data correction stuff we've been trying to get done for 10 years still
hasn't been done," a senior vice president at the university, Mark Campbell,
said. "It's not resolved, but at least we're on the right path."

Fairleigh Dickinson's problems with the immigration service have troubled higher
education officials, who say it bodes ill for a new automated system set to
monitor the entire country's student visa system. The inspector general's office
of the Justice Department has warned that the new Student and Exchange Visitor
Information System, or Sevis, will likely not be functioning smoothly at full
capacity by the end of January, but I.N.S. officials have vowed to have the full
system working in time. "Fairleigh Dickinson is Exhibit A in what seems to be a
fairly significant problem schools are having," said Terry Hartle, a lobbyist
here for the American Council on Education, which represents universities. "This
doesn't lead us to feel very comfortable about where the I.N.S. is."

"When you're dealing with an electronic system that is handling one million-plus
entries a year," he added, "it shouldn't be held together by twine and baling
wire."

A spokesman for the service, Chris Bentley, said that he would look into the
problems with the new computer system, but he had no further explanation.

The Association of International Educators is also appealing for more focused,
efficient procedures for screening visas, and for realistic estimates of how
long it takes to review visa applications.

In a survey of 77 institutions, the group said hundreds of students and faculty
members did not reach their universities in time for the start of fall classes
because of visa delays.

About 10 percent of Fairleigh Dickinson's 10,000 students come from overseas,
most of them to study business, engineering, computer science and nursing. The
computer problem left some 300 incoming freshmen stranded in China, India,
Israel and other countries.

One of them, Narayan Raghavan, in the Indian state of Madras, said he was so
concerned about getting a visa that, because of the time difference, he was
sleeping days and staying up nights trying to reach university officials in New
Jersey.

As morning dawned in Madras, word reached Mr. Raghavan that the problem at
Fairleigh Dickinson had been solved. Before going to sleep, he tapped out an
e-mail message. "I am thrilled now," he wrote, "and would attend my visa
interview on the 20th itself."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 20, 2002



CORRECTION: An article on Sunday about a problem in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service computer system that was blocking visas for foreign
students accepted at Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey gave an
incorrect description of Madras, where one of the students lives. It is a city
in India, not a state.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 17, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hady Hassan Omar's Detention

SECTION: Section 6; Column 5; Magazine Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 195 words


No one doubts the grave threat that international terrorism poses to Americans
here and abroad and the need for better strategies to combat it. But Matthew
Brzezinski's article about the Muslim immigrant Hady Hassan Omar (Oct. 27)
described in graphic and deeply personal terms the tragic byproducts of our
response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks: a rush to judgment by some
law-enforcement investigators, gratuitous invasions of privacy and humiliation
by some prison officials and the denial of our most basic constitutional rights
and ostracization by friends and relatives, even after a suspect is released for
lack of evidence.

These excesses provide ammunition to those who seek to portray the United States
as anti-Muslim, an issue of critical importance to our relations with Arab
nations, and they undermine our own respect for the rule of law. As a United
States senator, I have often criticized other governments for violating these
fundamental rights, and I will continue to do so. But we hurt the cause of
international justice, as well as our efforts against terrorism, when we deny
these rights ourselves.

Patrick Leahy
United States Senate
Washington

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

GRASS ROOTS;
Scavenging in America for the Folks Back Home

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Giving; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 500 words


NAME: Obomeng Mma Kuo of New York and New Jersey.

FOUNDED: 1995, in the Bronx.

MISSION: To mobilize Ghanaians who have immigrated to the New York metropolitan
area from the village of Obomeng, in eastern Ghana, to raise or seek money for
Obomeng and its surrounding region. The group's focus is on health, education
and infrastructure; monthly meetings are held at the Mary Mitchell Family and
Youth Center near the Bronx Zoo.

FINANCING: From member's donations and foundations (the J. Homer Butler
Foundation gave $3,000 this year to renovate a medical clinic in Obomeng), but
the biggest source is aggressive scavenging. Anything goes: hundreds of school
desks that Fordham University was about to throw away; secondhand computers from
the National Puerto Rican Forum in New York; a $1 million shipment of medicine
from the Catholic Medical Mission Board.

Obomeng Mma Kuo, which means Obomeng Citizens' Association in the Twi language,
is one of many hometown associations in America, immigrant groups that promote
projects in their native towns or regions. Such groups date back to at least the
turn of the last century, when European immigrants banded together to help
finance projects in the old country.

Experts say that certain benefits, albeit not financial ones, accrue to the
immigrants as well. "There's a whole social dynamic underlying this," said Peggy
Levitt, associate professor of sociology at Wellesley College who has studied
hometown associations. "If you've suffered a decline in status as an immigrant
and you work really hard and you're really lonely, it's a big compensating
experience to be able to bring home a check."

Ronald Ababio, who operates Obomeng's development efforts, recently lost his
contract as a floor-maintenance worker at Rite Aid and is strapped financially.
But he is so famous in his hometown, he said, that if he returned he would have
to disguise himself to avoid the attention.

When the group sent over its first medical supplies in 1999, consisting of
donated medicine that one member carried over in a suitcase, the older men in
the village were mightily impressed with what they called a "magic medicine,"
which they said worked better on their headaches and toothaches than the aspirin
they usually took. It was Tylenol.

"They made a request that in the future, when we bring any medicine again, we
should make sure we have Tylenol," Mr. Ababio said. Since then, money has been
donated to building a public restroom with running water for the village, and
the group is working on attracting a branch of a new university that would
provide employment for many of the villagers.

LATEST PROJECT: The biggest coup to date was the $1 million in medical supplies
from the Catholic Medical Mission Board. These included two containers of
hospital beds, medicine and other items, all of which are currently at sea on
their way over, to be distributed not just in Obomeng but throughout Ghana.

The shipment also includes $7,320.82 worth of Tylenol.   SETH KUGEL

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: CLOSE TO HOME -- E. Wiafe Kumnipa, left, and Ronald Ababio of
Obomeng Mma Kuo, an association that helps their village in Ghana. (Edwine
Seymour for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DETAINEES;
U.S. Says Revealing Names Would Aid Al Qaeda

BYLINE:  By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 709 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 18


The Justice Department argued before a federal appeals panel today that
disclosing the names of hundreds of people arrested on immigration charges after
the September 2001 attacks would help terrorists of Al Qaeda figure out how the
government was conducting its antiterrorist campaign.

The department was in court appealing a strongly worded ruling in August by a
federal trial judge who criticized officials for refusing to name the more than
700 people arrested on immigration charges.

The judge, Gladys Kessler, who wrote the August opinion, said the minimum
requirements of democracy obliged the government to disclose who it arrested.

But Gregory G. Katsas, a deputy assistant attorney general, told the three-judge
appeals panel today that Judge Kessler had "severely underrated the grave
law-enforcement, public safety, privacy and national security interests at
stake."

Mr. Katsas said it was simply common sense that disclosing the names would help
terrorist leaders by giving them a road map to the government's antiterrorist
efforts.

"If you release hundreds of names, that gives them very important clues," he
said. "We will give Al Qaeda no clues as to how we seek out terrorists."

Today's argument stemmed from a lawsuit brought by a broad coalition of civil
liberties groups challenging the government's refusal to release the names of
those arrested for immigration violations as part of the terrorism
investigation.

Attorney General John Ashcroft had argued that while he was obliged to disclose
the names of those charged with criminal behavior, he did not have to say
publicly who was arrested on immigration charges. In addition, department
officials said they were refusing to release the names to protect the privacy of
those arrested.

Kate Martin, a lawyer for the Center for National Security Studies, one of the
groups that brought the lawsuit, said the government's interpretation of
exceptions in the Freedom of Information Act was incorrect. Government lawyers
had argued that the act had exceptions allowing the withholding of information
if release of it would harm an ongoing criminal investigation.

"We do not believe that the Freedom of Information Act licenses a scheme of
secret arrests," Ms. Martin said. "We believe the First Amendment probably
prohibits such a scheme."

She also asserted that the government could not simply block any inquiry into
the names without showing in more detail how disclosure would affect the
investigation.

At least one member of the panel, Judge David B. Sentelle, appeared by his
questions and comments to side with the government. Judge Sentelle challenged
Ms. Martin repeatedly. When she told him that about 750 names were involved,
Judge Sentelle said that if those names were released "there are 750 additional
pieces of evidence that you would put in the hands of Al Qaeda."

Judge David S. Tatel questioned both sides but pointedly asked Mr. Katsas if the
government's argument could be used in all complex criminal trials.

Mr. Katsas said this case was different "because of the stakes of the case and
because harms rise to national security."

The third member of the panel, Judge Karen LeCraft Henderson, questioned the
lawyers only briefly.

Judge Kessler's order to release the names was one of a handful of instances in
which federal courts have been critical of the government's actions after the
Sept. 11 attacks. Judge Kessler said that while it was the obligation of the
executive branch to ensure the physical security of American citizens, "the
first priority of the judicial branch must be to ensure that our government
always operates within the statutory and constitutional constraints which
distinguish a democracy from a dictatorship."

"Unquestionably," she added, "the public's interest in learning the identity of
those arrested and detained is essential to verifying whether the government is
operating within the bounds of law."

Judge Kessler ordered the government to disclose the names, but she said it
could exclude any people who did not want their names released for reasons of
privacy or safety. Mr. Katsas said that in doing so, Judge Kessler had
acknowledged the validity of privacy and security issues.

She suspended her order pending the outcome of the appeals.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing West: California: Ex-Sweatshop Workers Get Residency

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 90 words


Thai immigrants who were freed seven years ago from slave-like working
conditions at a sweatshop have been granted permanent residency. The Immigration
and Naturalization Service recently notified the 71 immigrants of their new
legal status and will provide green cards within six months. The authorities
raided a factory in El Monte, about 12 miles east of downtown Los Angeles, on
Aug. 2, 1995, and found workers who had been held against their will and forced
to work for less than 60 cents an hour under the scrutiny of 24-hour guards.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 20, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words


An article on Sunday about a problem in the Immigration and Naturalization
Service computer system that was blocking visas for foreign students accepted at
Fairleigh Dickinson University in New Jersey gave an incorrect description of
Madras, where one of the students lives. It is a city in India, not a state.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Yearning to Inhale Free;
Facing Ban, Immigrants Say Smoking Is a Way of Life

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words


Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg wants a law to guarantee a smoke-free environment in
all workplaces and public places, including clubs, bars, restaurants, movie
theaters and cafes.

He has heard plenty about the proposal from celebrity restaurant owners,
bartenders, doctors, tavern owners and unions. He has probably not heard,
however, the concerned and somewhat novel opinions of a rarely polled segment of
his public -- immigrants.

They say he ought to stand a day in their worn-down shoes.

"It's the immigrants and poor people who smoke, because life is a struggle,"
says Roman Kaplan, one of the Russian-born owners of the Russian Samovar
restaurant in Midtown Manhattan. "The Americans are rich, so they want to live a
long time."

More than a third of all New Yorkers were born in a foreign country and a lot of
them -- the Chinese especially stand out, according to the city's Health
Department -- are heavy smokers.

Many of them like nothing better than to relax and smoke in their own small
sanctuaries with their hands around a cup of sugary tea, a glass of vodka or a
karaoke microphone. Smoking is an integral part of the picture, they say.

If New York City expands its smoking ban, people will be forced to go to
inferior karaoke bars in New Jersey, warns Harry Lee, manager of the Empire
Korea restaurant and its seven deluxe karaoke rooms in Manhattan. Korean
immigrants flock there to sing, drink and smoke.

"People in New Jersey are not going to drive in at 7 or 8 at night if we can't
accommodate them," says Mr. Lee, who sneers at the quality of karaoke offered on
the other side of the Hudson. "They already have to pay for the toll and to park
their car. If you also have to stand outside to smoke, you won't bother to
come."

If smoking is outlawed in public places, the risk of accidental home fires will
go up and social interaction will go down. That's the view of Said Ahmed, a
heavyset Egyptian immigrant who speaks English with a fine Queens accent.

"If people can't smoke in a restaurant, they'll go home and do it," says Mr.
Ahmed, an owner of the Egyptian Cafe in Astoria, where the smoke from Arabic
water pipes and cigarettes hovers as a permanent indoor fog. "It could be
dangerous. They could start fires. They could burn the carpet.

"Here, at least," he explains, "I keep an eye out and I protect things."

For some immigrants, smoking is a habit of a lifetime transplanted to a new
country along with other kinds of literal and cultural baggage. Others smoke
defiantly, in a display of their newfound emancipation from dictatorial rules.

Many smoke because it is simply what they, and their compatriots, always do when
they meet to recapture and remind themselves of some of the atmosphere of home.

"I have been smoking for 50 years and I'd be miserable if I couldn't come here
and smoke anymore," says Zhenzeng Lin, a hardy-looking old man who spends most
days playing mah-jongg with friends at the Fujianese American Association on
East Broadway.

The association's office is more a social club for older immigrants than a
headquarters, filled with gossip and familiar conversation for immigrants from
Fujian Province in China.

"If I had to smoke outside, it would be hard, especially in the winter," Mr. Lin
adds from within a personal cloud of cigarette smoke. "Anyway, I don't want to
smoke in the snow and cold wind."

At Empire Korea, the karaoke rooms in the basement are outfitted with beige
leather couches, high-tech sound systems and tapes of thousands of songs in
Korean, Japanese and English. Its clientele, mostly Korean executives and
workers, rent the private rooms by the hour for singing.

Mr. Lee, the manager, insists that people offended by smoking can simply close
the door to their own rented room and stay smoke-free. "But for most people,
it's a social occasion," he says. "They're not drinking to get drunk. They enjoy
the company. They sing with friends. It's really fun and with a couple of drinks
and a smoke, it's just perfect."

Some immigrants who share his opinions now contemplate bold acts of civil
disobedience.

Dimitry Nageiv, the Russian-born manager of the Winter Garden cafe on the
Brighton Beach boardwalk in Brooklyn, imagines a sleight-of-hand to shield his
patrons from regulators.

"It's simple," he says. "When the inspector comes, there are no ashtrays."

Demonstrating the technique, one of his bartenders picks up an ashtray and hides
it behind his back. "If you want to smoke, you smoke," Mr. Nageiv says
brusquely, putting an end to the discussion. "The customer is always right."

Indeed, many immigrants seem puzzled by the mayor's crusade to banish indoor
smoking to protect workers from second-hand smoke. Naively, they chalk it up to
an American enthusiasm for regulations or, conversely, a determination to
dictate fate.

George Leccese, an Italian immigrant working as a bartender at the Winter
Garden, describes himself as a light and, most important, a fatalistic smoker.

"In the morning you get up and get hit by a car -- bam -- and you're dead," he
says. "You walk down the street and a sniper shoots you -- bam -- and you're
dead. People die of cancer who have never smoked in their lives. My aunt, who is
94 and plays soccer, still smokes.

"Next we'll have to pay taxes for fresh air or groceries or car exhaust," he
continues, working himself up to real indignation. "Everybody, but not
Bloomberg, should make a decision for themselves. This is a free country."

At the Egyptian Cafe in Queens, smoke is the specialty of the house. Arab
customers come for the elaborate ritual of shisha, or water pipes, and can
choose from the traditional apple-flavored tobacco or the more trendy
cappuccino-flavored. They are equally fatalistic.

"These are old habits, especially for people of the East," says Ahmed Fouda,
sitting alone at a table, a backgammon board waiting for his attention and a
velvet-sheathed shisha pipe dangling from his hand.

Not that he endorses cigarette smoking. Dr. Fouda says he is a doctor who used
to work with the Egyptian public health service in Alexandria before coming to
New York, where he now finds himself, somewhat to his surprise, working as a
livery car driver.

Between puffs from the water pipe, he launched into an authoritatively graphic
recitation of the foul effects of nicotine on the human body: the cellular
damage, the insidious corrosion of the nervous system, the helpless gasping from
emphysema, the fiendish grip of addiction.

Yes, he concluded, smoking is bad. But smoking a water pipe is less so.

"With shisha, we smoke once or twice a day and it is filtered through the
water," he says. "With cigarettes, you can smoke four or five packets in a day.
You need to go out from your building, down to the street, every half an hour
for another cigarette."

Mr. Ahmed sits down to join the doctor and espouses his personal solution:
special smoking licenses for smoking establishments that advertise themselves as
such.

"What are you going to do?" Mr. Ahmed says. "You go to a KFC. They sell only
chicken there. You going to say, 'I'm a vegetarian' and make them close down?
You don't want chicken, you don't go."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Delivering a pipe of Arabic tobacco at the Egyptian Cafe. A
smoking ban in all public places would outlaw the practice.; The specialty at
the Egyptian Cafe in Astoria, Queens, is a puff on a water pipe. 'Old habits,' a
customer said. (Photographs by Graham Morrison for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 21, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pirating of CD's and DVD's Takes a Dangerous Turn

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 698 words


Two recent shootings in Midtown Manhattan, one of which left a Guinean immigrant
dead on Tuesday, may be part of a pattern of robberies aimed at people who make
pirated compact discs and DVD's, the police said yesterday.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly said it was too early to tell if the
shootings were related, but he said that makers and peddlers of pirated goods
were easy prey for robbers.

"People who are perceived to be making a lot of money and doing it illegally
become targets," Mr. Kelly said. "And, not unlike the drug trade, this may be an
emerging pattern."

Peddling counterfeit goods on the streets of New York has for many years been a
first job for immigrants, particularly those who lack the proper permits to
work. In the past, peddlers typically bought their supply from illicit
manufacturers who used expensive equipment to churn out thousands of bootleg
CD's, cassettes and videos.

But as CD and DVD burners that allow anyone with a personal computer to
flawlessly duplicate a movie or sound recording have become cheaper, intense
competition has made the counterfeiting business more dangerous, law enforcement
officials said yesterday. And warehouses that hold the counterfeiting operations
have become attractive robbery targets.

That is apparently what happened shortly after noon Tuesday, when Ablai Diallo,
37, who worked in a bootleg factory on West 29th Street, was killed in a
shooting. Two men went to a warehouse there and asked to place an order for
DVD's, the police said, and when Mr. Diallo began preparing their order, one of
the men drew a gun and demanded money. A scuffle ensued and the gun went off,
leaving Mr. Diallo with a gunshot wound to the chest. He died Tuesday afternoon
at Bellevue Hospital Center.

Bah Talibe, 32, a former employee at the warehouse who had recently started
selling DVD's on the street, was at the warehouse to buy CD's and DVD's and was
injured when he jumped out a window to escape the robbery. He was in stable
condition at Bellevue yesterday.

In July, two men were injured in a shooting during a botched robbery at a nearby
warehouse that the police say was also used by counterfeiters. Both men
recovered from their injuries, and two suspects were arrested shortly after the
shooting. Both were charged with robbery and assault and are in jail pending
trial. The police are investigating whether there is any connection between the
two incidents.

Richard Baker, a prosecutor in the Bronx district attorney's office who handles
many counterfeiting cases, said violence had not typically been a part of the
counterfeiting business. But that may be changing, he said.

"It is an illegal business, and some of the people who are doing it have
immigration issues," Mr. Baker said. "They become good prey for a more vicious
predator because the likelihood that they would want to report that they were
robbed is less."

The escalating violence has led the police to crack down on counterfeiters and
pursue those who would prey on them. A unit within the organized crime control
bureau investigates manufacturers of counterfeit CD's and DVD's, and precincts
in places peddlers prefer, like Times Square and the Fulton Street Mall in
Brooklyn, confiscate thousands of discs each year, the police said.

Frank Creighton, director of the antipiracy unit of the Recording Industry
Association of America, a trade group, said the counterfeiting business had
changed.

"Three or four years ago, individuals or organizations involved in major
counterfeiting needed to invest a quarter-million dollars in facilities and
equipment," Mr. Creighton said. "Because of rewritable CD technology, anybody
with a computer could be enticed into engaging in similar activities."

Paradoxically, this change may be making the business more dangerous by making
competition more intense and lead to more violence.

"The people engaged in this type of act are also involved in other types of
crimes, even violent crimes," Mr. Creighton said. "In talking about violence
associated with these types of crimes, it should not be a surprise to anyone
that the incidence of robbery and shootings are not unlike what you see in the
narcotics business."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 23, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

More Foreign Men Told to Register

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 245 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 22


Some citizens of 13 additional countries considered at higher risk for terrorism
must register with the government, Attorney General John Ashcroft announced
today.

The new rules affect men born on or before Dec. 2, 1986, who are citizens of
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman,
Qatar, Somalia, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

They must have entered the United States on or before Sept. 30 and intend to
stay at least until Jan. 10, 2003.

Earlier this month, Mr. Ashcroft announced similar requirements for men at least
16 years old from Iraq, Iran, Libya, Sudan and Syria.

These men will have to visit local offices of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to be fingerprinted and photographed.

Since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Ashcroft said, "we must have
a better understanding of who is entering and exiting our country."

The effort is part of a broad program to screen visitors at the border from
those countries when intelligence signals a higher risk. That program began on
Sept. 11; the rules announced today are intended to gain information about men
from the designated countries who were here before that date.

The affected population numbers in the thousands and includes students, people
with long-term travel visas and others, Justice Department officials said.

The requirements do not apply to permanent residents, diplomats or those who are
seeking or were granted political asylum.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 781 words


INTERNATIONAL   3-17

Pakistan and North Korea Involved in Nuclear Barter
Pakistan has used an American-built transport plane to carry ballistic missile
parts as part of a bartering operation with North Korea, intelligence officials
have learned. The transactions now appear much deeper and more dangerous than
the United States and its Asian allies first suspected.   1

North Korea asked South Korea to join in pressing America to sign a
nonaggression treaty. The request comes as the United States, Japan and South
Korea have initiated sanctions for North Korea's violation of nuclear arms
control agreements.   20


Bush Welcomes NATO States
President Bush, speaking in Bucharest, welcomed Romanians into the NATO alliance
and the campaign against terrorism. He said their experience under Communism
equipped them to understand the dangers posed by Saddam Hussein.   1

U.N. Official Killed by Israeli
The Israeli military admitted that a shot fired by one of its soldiers killed a
senior United Nations official on Friday at the agency's compound in the Jenin
refugee camp in the West Bank.   6

AIDS and Africa's Stability
No institution is more central to the stability of many African nations than the
military, and few institutions in Africa are more threatened by AIDS.   1

Swiss Vote on Immigration
Swiss voters will cast ballots on a measure that would give the country one of
the most restrictive immigrant policies in Europe. The referendum, initiated by
a right-wing party, has been condemned by all other parties, the government and
the United Nations refugee agency.   17

NATIONAL   24-30

Justice Department Uses New Tools in Terror Inquiry
The Justice Department, moving quickly to use its expanded powers for spying on
possible terrorists, plans to assign federal lawyers in counterintelligence to
terrorism task forces in New York and Washington to help secure secret warrants
against suspects, officials say.   1

The Holiday Film Rush
This holiday season's crush of films has provoked an all-out Hollywood jousting
match over movie release dates in what has become the most lucrative period of
the year.   1

West Coast Port Agreement
West Coast port operators and the longshoremen's union announced a tentative
agreement, ending a dispute that had closed 29 seaports before President Bush
obtained an injunction to reopen them last month.   30

Rash of Foreclosures
Home mortgages nationwide are being foreclosed at the highest rate in 30 years,
according to a recent report. Nowhere is the problem more severe than in
Indiana, a trend experts attribute to the state's relatively loose lender
regulations and its sharply rising unemployment rate.   30

Rebound in Border Crossings
Recent statistics compiled by the United States Border Patrol show that
apprehensions of illegal immigrants are roughly back to where they were before
Sept. 11.   24

Problems With Contractors
The Department of Energy's experience with contractors, with projects routinely
running over budget and past deadlines, serves as a sobering counterpoint to the
Bush administration's proposal to turn about half of the federal government's
civilian jobs over to private companies.   28

NEW YORK/REGION   33-39

City Property Tax Rate Will Rise by 18 Percent
The city's property tax rate, frozen for a decade, will rise by 18 percent on
Jan. 1 under an agreement announced between the Bloomberg administration and
City Council leaders. Faced with a deficit of $1.1 billion this year and $6.4
billion for the fiscal year that begins July 1, 2003, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg
had asked the Council for an immediate 25 percent increase in the property tax
rate.   1

Subway Track Work Stopped
All nonemergency track work in the New York City subway system was halted after
the second worker in two days was struck and killed by an oncoming train in
Manhattan. New York City Transit called for the freeze to conduct a review of
safety procedures after transit union officials instructed track crews to stop
all work, raising the specter of major delays on subway lines throughout the
city.   1

Neediest Cases   36

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Seeking Solar Power
The San Francisco Public Utilities Commission plans to position solar panels
around the foggy city that it says will add 10 megawatts of solar power to the
electricity grid over the next five years. On average, 1 megawatt is enough
electricity for 1,000 homes. The long-term hope is a significant decrease in the
city's reliance on fossil fuels.   24

OBITUARIES   40

Dr. Morris N. Young
An ophthalmologist and collector whose life was framed by the letter M --
medicine, magic, mnemonics and music -- he was 93. He was the author of a dozen
books about his passions.   40

Chess   39
Weather   41

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 24, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
Looking Over the Northern Border, and Over Their Shoulder

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: TROUT RIVER, N.Y.


THIS is where the homeland begins, and thankfully, Morgan Badger is on the first
line of defense.

He lives in this speck of a town on the Canadian border, and whether he's home
near the United States checkpoint or at his bar up the road, he's eager to do
his part in the global neighborhood watch.

"When you see a strange face, you call," he said. "I don't want some yo-yo
coming through here on the way to New York City to blow something up. If I can
do something to stop them, I'd be happier than hell."

So would we all.

The United States-Canada border was always sort of the class trip of foreign
travel -- novel, but nonthreatening. But the post-Sept. 11 hunt for holes in the
security net identified it as a prime place from which terrorists could slip
into the United States, helped by Canada's relatively lax immigration laws.

As Washington congratulated itself last week for establishing the Homeland
Security Department, you got a more sobering view here on the homeland's front
step.

On Thursday morning, Roger Lanoue, a marina operator, was eating at the Ole
Tymes Cafe, in the corner of New York bordering Vermont and Canada. "In the
winter, the lake freezes over," he said, motioning toward Lake Champlain. "If
you want to get across, skate, ski."

Sneaking across is much tougher since last year. There are hundreds more border
agents, a web of cameras and motion sensors, and better uses of intelligence,
aircraft and boats. The tightening is evident in slower lines at major crossings
and soaring seizures of marijuana.

Still, there are only about 500 border patrol agents on the 4,000-mile border,
compared with 9,300 along the 2,000-mile Mexican border.

In town after town here, the official notion of tight-as-a-drum domestic
security gives way to the reality of plugging holes in an open society.

Canadians keep post office boxes in the United States because mail service is
better. There is a constant flow of workers and relatives. A driver on a rural
school bus route said she crossed into Canada every morning, just to turn around
on the safest part of the road. Residents praise the re-enforced border, but as
one said, "If there's a will, there's a way."

Celine Paquette, an insurance agent in Champlain, N.Y., and a trustee of the
State University of New York, appreciates the new vigilance, but worries about
the root of terrorism. "They absolutely hate us," she said. "It can't only be
because we're pro-Israel. Is it because we're seen as haughty or we think we're
so right?"

That question hangs in the air here, with people acutely aware that no border
can be made impermeable.

One remote crossing closes at 4 p.m. "We just put up the gate and turn off the
lights," said an agent there. (With the nation on alert, a Customs Service guard
and cameras now mind the crossing on off hours.) Up the road, a sign pointing to
a federal office reminds travelers to "report immediately for inspection."

Farther west, the St. Regis Mohawk reservation straddles the border, making it a
favorite territory for smugglers. Drive north on the reservation and ask for
directions. "You're in Quebec, Canada," said Darcy Day, a tribal council member.

But there's no official border crossing. "This is Mohawk land," he said,
although agents from both countries and the tribal police watch it closely.
Rivers keep you from driving farther into Canada, but Mr. Day said that in
winter, you can cross by snowmobile, and head toward Montreal "without
checkpoints." Or make the reverse trip to New York.

JENNIFER COWAN lives on the border in Chateaugay, N.Y. She recently reported
suspicious men in vans, and agents found illegal immigrant smuggling. Living
here, she said, "You feel an obligation to your country."

She also sees domestic defense in a larger context. Before joining her father's
farm equipment business, Ms. Cowan, 27, received a business degree at
SUNY-Binghamton. She had many foreign classmates, and their antipathy for
America surprised her. She has thought about that a lot since the terrorist
attacks.

"I don't know how to tackle so many years of inbred feelings about America," she
said.

But trying to stop it at the border hardly seems enough. On her piece of the
homeland, she can monitor the fields for suspicious arrivals from Canada. Even
then, she said, "Someone could be coming through the woods."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Finds Welfare Initiatives Do Not Address Needs of Immigrant Families

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25


Many programs intended to lift people out of poverty by promoting marriage and
mandating work do not address the realities of poor immigrants, a study released
today has found.

The report, by the Urban Institute, a public policy research group in
Washington, was based on a national survey of more than 42,000 households. The
study showed that low-income immigrant families were more likely than their
native counterparts to have two parents in the household and that poverty often
persisted in these families despite the fact that both parents worked.

The study found, for example, that children of two-parent immigrant families
were twice as likely to live in low-income households as children of two-parent
native families. Low income is defined as less than twice the federal poverty
line, which was $16,700 for a family of four in 1999.

"It shows that policies that assume low incomes are a result of not engaging in
the work force, or not having stable families, are wide of the mark," said
Michael Fix, director of immigration studies at the Urban Institute and an
author of the study. "Since it is wages, not lack of employment or work ethic,
that is at issue, what these families seem to need are work supports to enable
them to boost their wages."

Such supports, according to immigrant advocacy groups that have reviewed the
study, include language and job skills training and improved access to health
care, child care and low-cost housing programs.

In particular, immigrant advocates say programs focusing on marriage promotion
and work requirements divert attention and money from efforts to restore access
to services for newer immigrants.

The findings should be "a call to action for Congress and the administration,"
said Marcela Urrutia, a policy analyst for the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic advocacy group. "Both parties have been doing a really good job in
their rhetoric to immigrant and Latino families, but to this point they haven't
put their money where their mouths are."

Dr. Wade Horn, assistant secretary for children and families for the Department
of Health and Human Services, said the study focused on the wrong data.

"The comparison should not be between married immigrants and nonimmigrants, but
between married immigrants and nonmarried immigrants," Dr. Horn, a strong
supporter of marriage promotion as part of welfare programs, said.

"If the comparison were fair," he said, "I'm certain it would indicate that
nonmarried immigrant households are, in fact, poorer than married immigrant
families."

Dr. Horn also called the study short-sighted. "The fact that the vast majority
of these families work very hard is good news in the long term," he said. "The
evidence shows that reliable workers get rewarded with additional
opportunities."

The study does not cite individual cases, but the authors say challenges for
immigrant families are especially persistent in states with recent booms in
immigrant population.

An immigrant woman from Guatemala who would not allow her last name to be used
because of the legal status of some family members said that improving the
livelihood of her family seemed out of reach.

The woman, a housekeeper for a major hotel chain, moved a year ago with her
husband and their three children to Nebraska, a state with a fast-growing
immgrant population. She makes $7.04 an hour, and her husband, a dishwasher at a
restaurant, makes $7.25 an hour. Each earns more than the minimum wage, but a
recent study of living costs in Nebraska found that in a two-parent family with
two children, each parent would need to make at least $10 an hour for the family
to be self-sufficient.

Because the couple's three children are American citizens, they receive
Medicaid, but the parents are uninsured. They speak limited English, and,
because of their residency status, they are barred from or have difficulty
gaining access to language and job-training programs.

"We're working just to be able to survive," said the woman, who said she relied
on help from the Salvation Army and local schools for clothing and other
necessities for the children. "I would look for another job with better pay, but
I would need to be better qualified."

The Urban Institute study looked at the challenges faced by immigrant households
like the Guatemalan woman's. It found that the percentages of children of
immigrants in poor to fair health -- as opposed to good health -- are more than
twice those of children of natives.

Stable family structure, though, appears to shield children in low-income
immigrant families from other difficulties. Low-income working immigrant parents
are less likely to read to their children or to be involved in community or
school activities, the study found, but the children are no more likely than
their counterparts in nonimmigrant families to exhibit behavioral problems or a
lack of engagement in school.

"There are some inherent strengths in immigrant families that provide protective
factors for children in some areas," said Randy Capps, an author of the study.
"But the level of unmet need, in terms of health care, housing and food
assistance, shows that there are areas in which there is a role for public
policy to provide additional support."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Immigrant Issues"A study by the Urban Institute shows that
children in immigrant families face particular challenges to their health and
well-being. PERCENTAGE OF CHILDREN IN LOW-INCOME FAMILIES*One-parent families
Children of immigrants: 72%Children of natives: 61 Two-parent familiesChildren
of immigrants: 44Children of natives: 22 PERCENTAGE OF CHILDREN IN FAIR OR POOR
HEALTH Age 0-11Children of immigrants: 7%Children of natives: 3 Age
12-17Children of immigrants: 13Children of natives: 5 *Defined by household
income less than twice the federal poverty level.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 26, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Those Who Smoke

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 184 words


To the Editor:

Re "Yearning to Inhale Free: Facing Ban, Immigrants Say Smoking Is a Way of
Life" (news article, Nov. 21):

Contrary to the common misperception that immigrants are more likely than
American-born New Yorkers to be smokers, our recent community health survey,
which randomly interviewed 3,494 immigrants from 140 countries, found that the
age-adjusted prevalence of smoking among our estimated 2.5 million foreign-born
residents is 16 percent.

That is significantly lower than the smoking rate among those born in America
(26 percent).

Unfortunately, immigrants do not have the same ability to choose not to be
exposed to the cancer-causing chemicals of cigarette smoke at work: 22 percent
of nonsmoking immigrants are in workplaces that do not have smoke-free policies,
compared with 16 percent of nonsmoking American-born New Yorkers.

Far from being disproportionately harmed by the city's efforts to guarantee a
smoke-free environment, foreign-born New Yorkers stand to gain the most.

FARZAD MOSTASHARI, M.D.
Assistant Commissioner, Dept. of
Health and Mental Hygiene
New York, Nov. 21, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 30, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Editorial Observer;
How Immigrants Are Transforming the Politics of Europe

BYLINE:  By DAVID C. UNGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 916 words


The Netherlands has long been known as a country of liberal, permissive views
and dull coalition governments. All that seemed to change last spring with the
sudden rise of Pim Fortuyn. Mr. Fortuyn, a gay former sociology professor and
onetime Marxist, had transformed himself into a political pop star by taunting
Muslim immigrants, accusing them of being a threat to law and order, Dutch
national identity and the rights of women and gay people.

Mr. Fortuyn's acerbic rhetoric and flamboyant persona brought him improbably
close to being elected prime minister. But he was murdered before that could
happen, the Netherlands' biggest political assassination since that of Prince
William the Silent in the 16th century.

Amsterdam was my first stop on a trip to several European countries where
hostility to immigration, and in particular Muslim immigration, is redrawing the
political map. Serious social tensions have developed that establishment
political parties can no longer afford to ignore. Mr.  Fortuyn was perhaps a
singular figure, but the anxieties he mobilized are widespread. How to control
and manage immigration is now Europe's most volatile issue, reconfiguring
political loyalties from Oslo to Seville.

Americans have long lived, though not always comfortably, with large-scale
immigration. In Europe, it dates only to the past few decades, the same period
in which European societies have had to adjust to the loss of colonial empires
and the gradual surrender of sovereignty to the European Union. In many
countries, national identity has become an increasingly raw subject.

Europe's new immigrants came in overlapping waves. Former colonial subjects from
Africa, Asia and the Caribbean were joined by "guest workers" from countries
like Turkey and Morocco. More recently war in the Balkans, Kurdish areas of
Turkey and Afghanistan brought asylum seekers, while economic migrants flowed in
from Eastern Europe and thousands of desperately poor people arrived from rural
areas of North and sub-Saharan Africa.

While some immigrant populations have grown increasingly European in their
outlook, others have perpetuated their isolation by importing brides and grooms
from their rural villages back home. The mostly Muslim children and
grandchildren of the postwar guest workers have experienced the most serious
problems, with many trapped in poor housing, poor schools and chronic
unemployment. High arrest rates for crimes like mugging and vandalism have made
"law and order" code words for getting tough on immigrants. The discovery of
"sleeper cells" of Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups nestled in European
cities like Hamburg has compounded the fears of non-Muslim neighbors.

With immigrants now close to 10 percent of the population in several European
countries, it is slowly becoming necessary to redefine the meaning of being
Swedish, Dutch or German. As Americans have learned, if done right this will not
dilute but enrich the national identity. Governments need to develop more
constructive policies than broad-brush crackdowns on asylum seekers. In any
case, sealing borders will not solve the problems of existing immigrants and
their European-born children and grandchildren.

Some noteworthy efforts have already begun. France's Gaullist government is
trying to work with Muslim and other immigrant community leaders. One potential
interlocutor is Soheib Bencheikh, the grand mufti of Marseille, with whom I
spent a fascinating couple of hours. Mr. Bencheikh notes that the experience of
living as a minority is a new and potentially healthy one for Muslims from North
Africa and the Middle East that could become a bridge to new ideas about
tolerance and coexistence. He is also determined to prevent the quarrels of the
Middle East from spilling into France, now home to some 600,000 Jews and around
four million Muslims.

Mr. Bencheikh believes that Marseille, with substantial Arab and Jewish
communities, can offer a positive example of these two peoples living together
peacefully, as they did in North Africa for centuries. He defined his goal as
"active cohabitation, not just a juxtaposition of closed communities."

That dream is a long way from present reality. The poorer suburbs of many French
cities are now studded with tiny mosques where radical clerics preach
intolerance and hatred of the West to young Algerians and Moroccans who feel no
hope of gaining acceptance in France.

In the Netherlands, the Fortuyn phenomenon has brought attention to more serious
arguments about problems of multiculturalism and immigrant adjustment. Even
before Mr. Fortuyn became a national figure, Paul Scheffer, a journalist and
academic, called for efforts to break down barriers between communities and
bring immigrants more fully into the mainstream of national life. I listened to
Mr. Scheffer explain his view that the polite, politically correct silences of
Dutch multiculturalism risk creating a new apartheid, condemning second- and
third-generation immigrants to second-class schools and inferior employment
opportunities. Unlike Mr. Fortuyn, who dreamed of severing contact with Muslim
immigrants, Mr. Scheffer seeks more honest dialogue.

For years, European intellectuals avoided discussing the problems of immigrant
communities, for fear of stirring public anxieties. Now they talk about them,
but well-meaning liberals are reluctant to do so openly. Their silence has
helped open the door to the fear-mongers from whom the issue must now be
reclaimed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 1, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Our Towns;
For Day Laborers, Another Dollar Could Mean Another Death

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 711 words

DATELINE: HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.


DRIVING down Conklin Street in Farmingdale that morning, you would hardly have
noticed Juan Oliva. He was standing in one of those clutches of immigrants that
sprout on street corners, hoping to snag a day's work from a passing contractor.
In that way, he was thoroughly ordinary.

So was the job he got. Mr. Oliva, 21, and three other men were offered $90 each
to load onto a truck dozens of heavy 4-by-10-foot sheets of particleboard from a
store that was closing. That afternoon two weeks ago, 600 pounds of board fell
on Mr. Oliva, killing him.

However singular the circumstances of the accident, Mr. Oliva lived and died in
the thoroughly ordinary limbo of a day laborer, which is worth more notice than
Mr. Oliva commanded that last day of his short life.

He came here illegally, but no one tried to deport him, and there were always
jobs. But the work that killed Mr. Oliva was the dangerous kind often left to
laborers who stand on corners -- ready, willing and cheap.

"They're treated like disposable workers," said Carlos Canales, an organizer
with the Workplace Project, which represents immigrant laborers here.

Hardly a stranger in a strange land, Mr. Oliva was the second generation of a
family from El Salvador to view the United States as a second home. His father,
Brogelio, fled his country and came here in the early 1980's with other
relatives when civil war threatened their corn and bean farm in the village of
Poloros. "A lot of people were dying because they were bombing Poloros," said an
aunt of Juan Oliva, Maria Cabrera, speaking through a translator.

Brogelio Oliva did landscaping on Long Island in the warm months, returning to
his wife and children in Poloros during the off-season. His passages were
illegal, but "he never got caught," Ms. Cabrera said. "He knew the way."

Adding to the legal ambiguity, three times since the early 1990's the United
States granted temporary status to Salvadorans here illegally, allowing them to
stay and work, avoiding turmoil at home. Even with the post-Sept. 11 immigration
clampdown, their temporary status was renewed.

Juan Oliva arrived 14 months ago, embraced by relatives in Hempstead's
Salvadoran village. "I can go to my uncle or I can go to my aunt," he told one
relative. "I feel like I'm in town," meaning Poloros. One aunt had infant twins
he loved to hold. An uncle helped him join a soccer team in the local Latin
league, which was even photographed for the newspaper Nueva America.

THE uncle, Jose Cabrera, found him a $6-an-hour job at a Brooklyn fabric
factory. But Mr. Oliva wanted more money, hoping to bring his girlfriend and
their baby here. Friends found him jobs, and he worked at a cafeteria for a few
months.

Relatives warned him against picking up day jobs on street corners. They pay
well but are often dangerous. "We were just afraid," said another aunt, Flor
Perez. "He was just a kid."

The federal government, concerned about the rate of injuries to immigrants,
encourages them to report unsafe workplaces. But Maureen Moynihan-Fradkin, a
local official of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, said
immigrants with uncertain status were wary of complaining.

"They see it as government," she said. "They don't see it as 'Oh, the Department
of Labor, they're here to help me.' " In addition, the agency has only 12
compliance officers for Long Island and Queens.

On the morning of Nov. 18, Juan Oliva stood outside a convenience store known as
a hiring spot for day laborers. "That was his first day there," said Santos
Argeta, a regular. A laborer who happened to have a camera took a picture of Mr.
Oliva smiling and carrying an umbrella to protect against the threat of rain.

Nothing protected him when the boards fell. The details are still being
investigated. When the police came to inform Ms. Perez, she was holding one of
the twins Juan loved to cradle. Her shriek reverberated from Hempstead to
Poloros.

Juan's parents were in El Salvador, his father continuing the pattern he started
in the 80's. "He would work and then come home," Ms. Cabrera said.

His work cut tragically short in the United States, Juan now followed the same
pattern. "His mother and father were there," she said, "and they said, 'Bring
him home.' " He was buried in Poloros last Sunday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 5, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rap Star Is Facing Deportation

BYLINE:  By LOLA OGUNNAIKE

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 529 words


As a gig, it was little more than a pleasant echo of the days when he ruled the
pop charts with an album that became a rap classic, "The Great Adventures of
Slick Rick."

But by the time the seven-day entertainment cruise for which Ricky Walters
performed ended in June, Mr. Walters, who as Slick Rick was known for witty
party favorites like "La-Di-Da-Di" and a signature eye patch, found himself
incarcerated and fighting deportation.

Last week, his deportation order was upheld by the Board of Immigration Appeals,
and he remains in the detention center in Bradenton, Fla., where he has been
held since the summer. The rapper, who left England as a boy 26 years ago, has
no ties to his native country, his lawyer said. Mr. Walters's wife and two
children reside in the Bronx.

This series of events appears to be a result of the far more stringent
enforcement of rules governing entry into the United States after the terrorist
attacks last year. On Mr. Walters's return to Miami from the cruise, Customs
officials ran a check on his British passport and turned up an earlier order of
deportation stemming from his 1991 conviction for attempted murder. He served
five years in prison for the crime.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said any felony
conviction resulting in a prison sentence of over a year results in a virtually
automatic deportation.

But Mr. Walters's supporters, citing his clean record since his release in 1996
and what they described as the bizarre circumstances of his detention, have
organized in his defense. Will Smith, Chris Rock and Jesse Jackson have written
letters to the I.N.S. on Mr. Walters's behalf and Island/Def Jam Music Group,
his label, hired a Washington-based lobbying group to press his case.

Mr. Walters, 37, isn't the first artist to run afoul of the I.N.S. regulations
since the 9/11 attacks. The British actor Steven Berkoff was sent home in June
after it was discovered that he had stayed in the United States one day past the
limit of his 1997 visa, his American agent, Joe Ajlouny, said. Many others have
had difficulty gaining visas, causing the postponement or cancellation of
performances and concert tours.

Mr. Walters's troubles stem from his conviction for attempted murder in the
second degree. He pleaded guilty to shooting his cousin Mark Plummer, who he
claimed was extorting money from him and threatening his family. A clean record
since his release and his celebrity were not enough to save him from
deportation, said Bill Strassberger, an I.N.S. spokesman. "In 1996, the
threshold of what makes someone an aggravated felon was lowered from five years
to one, regardless of time actually served," he said. "It has to do with his
sentence." The prison term "would be more than enough" reason to deport him, he
added.

Mr. Walters's supporters have vowed to continue fighting, and his lawyers have
filed an appeal. "We in the hip-hop community will not allow his deportation to
go unchallenged," Ben Muhammad, president of the Hip-Hop Summit Action Network,
said in a statement on Tuesday.

"He does have a right to appeal," Mr. Strassberger said, "but in some cases
there is just no leeway."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The British rapper Ricky Walters (Slick Rick) performing in
1998. (Rahav Segev)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 11, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Northwest: Washington: Judge Bars Somali Deportations

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 77 words


A federal judge has issued a national temporary restraining order to bar the
Immigration and Naturalization Service from deporting Somalis to their country.
The ruling, on Monday, effectively halts the imminent deportations of at least
39 detained Somalis, a lawyer said. Judge Marsha J. Pechman of Federal District
Court in Seattle said the Somalis would most likely face great bodily harm if
sent home, a country in chaos and with a limited interim government.




URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 11, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Urged to Promote Flow of Refugees From North Korea

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 815 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


In 1989, Hungary snipped open its barbed-wire border with Austria, allowing
thousands of East Germans vacationing in Hungary to escape Communism. The tide
of refugees turned into a flood, hastening the collapse not only of East
Germany, but of the Iron Curtain, historians say.

Now a growing number of Bush administration officials, policy experts and
lawmakers say they are hoping to set off a similar chain reaction inside North
Korea. They argue that the stream of refugees from the starved, Stalinist nation
into China could sharply increase, particularly if China agreed not to send
North Koreans back, and if South Korea and the United States took in more
escapees.

"If this regime were actually to collapse, it won't be through an elite coup,"
said Victor D. Cha, associate professor of government and a Korea expert at
Georgetown University. "Real regime change will come from the bottom, from
people who can't oppose the regime but who can vote with their feet."

A senior administration official said: "When Hungary and Czechoslovakia opened
their borders to East Germans, it helped speed the collapse of the Berlin Wall.
Supporting refugees from North Korea could stress their system, too."

In Congress, Senator Sam Brownback, the conservative Republican from Kansas, and
Senator Edward Kennedy, the liberal Democrat from Massachusetts, have sponsored
legislation that would remove a provision in immigration law that makes it
difficult for North Koreans to seek asylum in the United States.

House Republicans have also called on the administration to share the costs of
resettling North Korean refugees with South Korea, China, Russia and other Asian
countries, much as it did with Vietnamese boat people in the 1970's.

"It looks like factors are lining up and history is clearly against the North
Korean regime," Mr. Brownback said in a recent interview. "It's a failed state.
It's starving its own people."

The administration and refugee advocates are also calling on Beijing to give the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees access to the North Korean border
region, where it can screen potential refugees and assist their safe movement to
other nations. As the flow of refugees rose, China expelled the United Nations
from the border in 1999, arguing that most North Koreans were merely trying to
better their economic circumstances.

"I think the Chinese are beginning to understand it's a problem," a senior State
Department official said.

Another senior official said that once South Korea elected a new president this
month, Washington would press harder for Seoul to accept more refugees. Although
the Constitution states that all North Koreans can become citizens of the South,
Seoul has accepted only about 2,000 North Korean refugees since 1954, experts
said.

Almost no North Koreans can escape across the heavily mined and militarized
border with South Korea, which has also been ambivalent about the difficulties
of assimilating such refugees and concerned that some are North Korean agents.

"The South Koreans have not been famously sympathetic," said Nicholas Eberstadt,
at the American Enterprise Institute in Washington.

But if South Korea accepts more refugees, China may allow the United Nations to
shelter and feed them en route, and perhaps open a resettlement office along the
border. Doing that, in turn, could encourage more northerners to flee, refugee
advocates contend.

"China doesn't want to have to feed tens of thousands of refugees," the senior
administration official said. "But if they thought these people would only stay
a few weeks, it might change their mind."

President Bush has appeared to endorse a policy of helping the refugees, telling
The Washington Post in a recent interview that he loathed Kim Jong Il and
disagreed with those who say "we don't need to move too fast" against North
Korea because of the financial costs.

"Either you believe in freedom," Mr. Bush said, "and worry about the human
condition, or you don't."

But there are sharp differences within the administration over how hard to push
the refugee policy, with some officials arguing that the North Koreans might
just crack down harder on border crossers. "This is not the East German regime,"
said one senior official. "It's much more brutal."

No one knows exactly how many tens of thousands of North Koreans are in the
neighboring region of China. But the number is thought to have risen with a
deepening famine in North Korea, which aid groups say has cost 2 million lives.

Over the summer, refugee groups organized daring attempts by North Koreans to
break into embassies in Beijing to seek asylum and to illustrate the refugees'
plight. The Chinese allowed some to travel to South Korea but it arrested many
others and returned them to the north. The Chinese have since fortified security
around the embassy compounds, and escape attempts have declined sharply.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1989, when Hungary removed fences on Austria's border,
thousands fled Communism. A similar stimulus is urged to free North Koreans.
(Gino Molin/Kronen Zeitung, via Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 14, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Religion Journal;
To Their Beloved Dead, Offerings by the Living

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 950 words


They are immigrants, or immigrants' children, who want to combine the hectic
reality of American life with the ancient Chinese practice of filial piety. They
want to take care of the souls of their ancestors but cannot frequently visit
their loved ones' distant graves in the mountains of China or even among the
woods in upstate New York.

So on Sunday mornings or on their way home from work, they go to Mahayana Temple
on the eastern edge of Manhattan's Chinatown to light incense in front of little
plates symbolizing the souls of their forebears.

At one corner of this ornate temple painted in rich yellow and red, more than
300 yellow plastic plates hang neatly in rows. Each plate, about two inches wide
and five inches long, bears the name of a deceased person in Chinese script and
sometimes a passport-size photo as well.

In front of the plates are two tables full of offerings, usually fruits, stacked
in red bowls the shape of lotus flowers. Candles, floating in oil, flicker in
ancient ceramic bowls, and pillows lie in front of the tables so that visitors
can kowtow to their ancestors.

Most of the roughly 300 Chinese Buddhist temples in the United States,
concentrated in the Northeast and California, offer a place for anyone to hang
the soul plate of a loved one for a fee, according to the Buddhist Association
of the United States. The cost varies with the size of the plates and the
location of the temples, but the average is a one-time fee of about $1,000.

On a recent Sunday morning, Mei Wong, a 34-year-old accountant working in Tampa,
Fla., but visiting her mother and siblings in Brooklyn, where she grew up, went
to Mahayana Temple to pay respects to her father, Hoi-koon Wong, who died in
1997.

Kneeling in front of the soul plates, she took out six tangerines and piled them
in a bowl, adding to the other offerings rendered at the temple that morning:
oranges, apples, occasional croissants and even some cups of coffee. (It is a
traditional East Asian practice that the living offer the dead the food that was
their favorite. The temple staff discards the previous day's food every
morning.) Many earlier worshipers that day had also brought carnations, orchids
and chrysanthemums.

Silently, Ms. Wong lighted a few incense sticks and, facing her father's plate,
kowtowed three times.

"Every time I come home to New York," she said later, "I always drop by here to
say hello to my father."

Ms. Wong said it was her mother who placed her father's soul plate in the
temple, after he died at 60, but she loves the idea. Extremely close to her
father, Ms. Wong visits his grave in suburban Tarrytown every spring on April 4,
Qing Ming, when all Chinese honor their dead friends and relatives. But she
wants this other place as well, where she can feel more frequently connected to
him.

The tradition of offering food to the deceased does not spring from Buddhism.
Rather, it was a practice prevalent in both China and Japan before the advent of
Buddhism there more than a thousand years ago.

"Nothing in the Buddhism scriptures says you should offer food to the dead,"
said Stanley Weinstein, a prominent Buddhism scholar at Yale. "Buddhism has
taken in a lot of indigenous cultures. It's unlike Christianity. Christianity
comes in, and it throws out everything else. Buddhism comes in, and it absorbs
local traditions."

In Japan, for instance, it is common to offer wine to the dead, so many Buddhist
temples there store huge kegs of sake. The practice actually contradicts
Buddhist teachings of abstinence from alcohol, Professor Weinstein said, but the
offerings are a way of showing the dead that the living care about them.

"The belief," he said, "is if you ignore them, they will not become comfortable
in their new world. They might become vindictive ghosts and could be harmful to
the family."

Placing soul plates in Buddhist temples has a special attraction to large
numbers of Chinese, said Zuhao Li, a Buddhism scholar at Chuang Yen Monastery in
Carmel, N.Y., one of the largest Buddhist temples in the country.

Many Chinese, Mr. Li explained, believe that in a temple, the souls of their
ancestors will be constantly accompanied by the deities (who reside in the
temples) and so will feel less lonely. In addition, the blessings bestowed upon
the dead by gods will shorten their stay in the painful underworld and give them
a chance either to be reborn or to ascend to heaven faster.

While the practice of worshiping ancestors both at their graves and in a temple
has long existed in China, in many cases American temples have become the only
places for immigrants to prostrate in front of them, because the dead were
buried in China. Gan Lan, 68, an immigrant living in Chinatown, went to Mahayana
Temple on a recent Sunday afternoon to offer some rice rolls to his parents.

"They are buried in a mountain near Ningbo," a seaport south of Shanghai, Mr.
Lan said, pointing to one of the plates, where a yellowed photograph showed a
middle-aged couple in traditional Chinese dress. The photo, taken in 1936, is
one of just a few he has of his parents.

"I would love to sweep my parents' graves frequently," Mr. Lan said, "but I can
afford to fly to China maybe only once every five years."

For owners of Buddhist temples, cutting out a corner for people to worship their
ancestors has some practical benefit: the fees collected for granting space to
hang the plates help defray the temple's costs.

But if the practice makes financial sense, it makes at least as much cultural
sense.

"If it can make it easier for people to memorialize their ancestors," said
Nelson Ying, the patriarch of the family that built the temple in 1997, "if it
makes people more peaceful, why not?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 15, 2002 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE CITIES;
Keeping The Gangs At Bay

BYLINE:  By LISA SUHAY

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1047 words

DATELINE: PENNSAUKEN


MARGUERITE LE wants to keep immigrant children on the straight and narrow path,
while street gangs and others seek to detour them. For nine years she has been
successful by employing the three L's: language, love and laughter.

She believes these newest and youngest members of the community are easy prey
for recruitment into illegal activities because the children are isolated behind
a barrier of language and poverty, with parents so busy trying to survive
financially that they have little time or resource to help their children
adjust.

Ms. Le, 52, a resident of Camden and teacher of English as a second language at
Lanning Square School in South Camden, is the founder and director of the
program known as Gleam, for God's Love English Art and Manners, at the Martin
Luther Christian School here in Pennsauken.

She meets at the school every Saturday morning with nearly 60 children from Asia
and the Caribbean. Twice a year she tries to raise enough funds to take the
group someplace they would consider a dream come true, whether that is to the
movies or a big league ballgame.

The students come from all over Pennsauken and Camden. Most attend public
schools, and most are Buddhists or of other faiths, not Christian.

"It isn't a conversion push," Ms. Le said. "We had to get God in there,
otherwise it would still be taking place in my little row house in Camden
instead of in the classrooms. But some of the original Gleam kids did become
Lutherans, so you never know."

Even teaching Bible basics was a trial when her first students, about a decade
ago, spoke no English and she no Vietnamese.

"We sat there with a translator as I tried to relate the story of Adam and Eve,"
she recalled. "Whoa! Now that was tough."

The participants range in age from 5 to 21. Many come from large families with
barely subsistence-level incomes.

"Let's get this straight," Ms. Le said. "Our kids are not victims. Some are
economically poor, but you don't have to give them your old socks or something.
They need education, good role models and to get the heck out of Camden and
Pennsauken once in a while to see outside the narrow focus of an immigrant's way
of life."

Ms. Le knows of the immigrant life. She was born Marguerite Wunsch, the daughter
of second-generation Americans: a father of German descent who worked in a
factory and a mother of Irish lineage who worked for Bell Telephone. She and her
two brothers grew up in Camden.

The father of Ms. Le's daughter, Kim, now 19 and a student at the University of
Pennsylvania, is from Vietnam. In addition, her former husband, whom she met
while teaching English as a second language at Catholic Community Services
program in Camden, was a refugee from Vietnam.

Ms. Le graduated from Rutgers University in Camden in 1972. She worked as an
operator for Western Union for eight years and then worked for the Camden public
schools until 1989, when she took the job at Catholic Community Services,
teaching Enlgish to adult refugees from Vietnam.

For six years she taught in the basement of an old convent at St. Joseph's
Cathedral, where a bare bulb swung from the cold, damp ceiling and bars covered
the windows.

"So that's where I met my ex-husband, Hoang Le, and how the Gleam program
began," Ms. Le explained. "The refugees couldn't afford sitters so they brought
their little ones to class."

According to Ms. Le, as time passed the parents graduated from the class, but
the children continued to come on their own.

"It was like their second family," she said. "They felt safe there and the
parents came to me and asked me to take the kids with me to the Lutheran church,
where I went on Sundays, so they could be with me and hear more English spoken."

All along, the need for a children's group similar to the one for their parents
became obvious. "So we started meeting at my house in Camden," she said. "When
it got too big I asked my church for space."

In the Gleam classroom on a recent Saturday morning, about 30 children from
Haiti, China, Vietnam, Puerto Rico and Mexico sipped juice, devoured doughnuts
and leafed through their journals comparing short stories they had written.

At this meeting the had a lecture by a Revolutionary War buff, Lou Gionobli,
clad in full British military regalia. After that came a lesson on how computers
work from Pete Gerken. Both presenters are local, unpaid volunteers.

The children gave their rapt attention. At the end they shyly accepted Mr.
Gionobli's offer to try on his tricorn hat.

After much coaxing, one child, Mathe Rose Marcellus, 12, of Camden, put on Mr.
Gionobli's British redcoat, starting gales of laughter and a buzz of many
languages from others as the coat engulfed her small frame.

In English, Ms. Le admonished the children: "If you are going to joke about how
funny it is, try and do it in English. Please. In English!"

Ms. Marcellus's sister Nathalie, 9, and brother Yves, 6, immediately stopped
laughing so as to marshal their tongues to the new language. At home the
Marcellus children speak Haitian-Creole and English with their parents and five
other siblings.

"We learn manners and we do a lot of reading," Mathe Rose said. "Ms. Le got us
Newsweek and now we learn a whole lot from there."

Mathe's oldest sister, Marie, 26, added: "This is a wonderful thing they do for
the children here. It is keeping them busy and safe from the world. It teaches
them the good things they should know about to protect them."

Ms. Le says her main struggle is against the gangs in Camdem that try to enlist
immigrant children.

"Oh yes, there are plenty of gangs here and other kinds of bad people looking
for someone vulnerable," she said. "They get them when they first come into this
country and they are struggling and they see all these American kids going to
movies and getting things they can never have. That resentment and alienation
builds up. The kids feel like outsiders and they gravitate toward the support of
the gang."

Ms. Le is fiercely proud of her young charges. The gangs that tried eight years
ago to indoctrinate her students failed in their appeal, she said, "because
these kids had support."

"If you have education and good role models, people who love you, you can
compete and you can survive, even get ahead in America, no matter how poor your
family is," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marguerite Le, above right, runs a program in Pennsauken
intended to shield young immigrants from violence on the street. At right,
Machly Destin, left, reads the Bible and Van Tran awaits her turn. (Photographs
by Annie McCormick for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 17, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE TIGHTENING BORDER;
Facing Registry Deadline, Men From Muslim Nations Swamp Immigration Office

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER with SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1135 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 16


Lines began forming before dawn today outside the downtown federal building here
as hundreds of men from five Muslim countries showed up to register with
immigration authorities under a sweeping national dragnet designed to identify
potential terrorists.

Attorney General John Ashcroft issued an order last month requiring virtually
all male noncitizens over the age of 16 who come from 18 countries, mostly Arab
and Muslim, to be interviewed, photographed and fingerprinted by federal
authorities. The program affects tens of thousands of immigrants from those
countries, most of whom hold valid work and study visas.

Those who fail to comply face criminal charges and immediate expulsion from the
country.

The deadline for men from Iran, Iraq, Syria, Libya and Sudan was today. Early
this morning, the Los Angeles headquarters of the I.N.S. was ringed with
hundreds of immigrants from those countries accompanied by anxious relatives and
immigration lawyers. The hallway outside the interview room was jammed with
scores of men from the five countries awaiting investigation. Similar scenes
played out at immigration offices around the country.

Over the past week, agency officials enforcing the program have handcuffed and
detained hundreds of men who showed up to be fingerprinted. In some cases the
men had expired student or work visas; in other cases the men could not provide
adequate documentation of their immigration status. At one point on Friday,
officials in the Los Angeles office ran out of plastic handcuffs as they herded
men into the basement lockup of the federal building, said Ali Bolour, an
immigration lawyer who shepherded several clients through the process.

Advocates for immigrant rights said that the program had sent waves of fear
through immigrant communities and that it was unlikely to make the country
safer.

"This is part of a steady drumbeat of Department of Justice actions that have
really put immigrants in the cross hairs," said Angela Kelley, deputy director
of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group in Washington. "

All this is doing is making a bigger haystack, not finding more needles," Ms.
Kelley said.

Immigration officials in Los Angeles declined to discuss the program, referring
all calls to Washington. The Department of Justice official authorized to speak
about it did not respond to repeated phone calls.

Jason Erb, government affairs director for the Council on American-Islamic
Relations, said the program had been poorly publicized and asked for an
extension so people who were unaware of the requirement could voluntarily
appear.

"The government has done little to spread the word in the Muslim and
Arab-American communities about the requirement to register," Mr. Erb said.
"This seems to be another in a series of dragnet policies that target
law-abiding visitors. These policies are an ineffective and inefficient use of
law enforcement."

The so-called special registration program is an expansion of an anti-terrorism
directive issued this summer that subjects citizens of countries considered a
high risk for terrorist activity to fingerprinting and additional scrutiny when
they enter and leave the United States. The program requires those already in
the United States to appear before immigration officers to provide detailed
information about their locations, jobs, studies and visa statuses.

The Justice Department began calling in citizens of the first five countries
last month. The list of countries was expanded on Nov. 6 to include Afghanistan,
Algeria, Bahrain, Eritrea, Lebanon, Morocco, North Korea, Oman, Qatar, Somalia,
Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Their deadline is Jan. 10.

Today, the Justice Department added Armenia, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia to the
program, with a reporting deadline of Feb. 21.

The program does not apply to permanent residents, those who were granted or
applied for asylum before Nov. 6, or diplomats and their dependents.

John Reed, an immigration lawyer and former State Department official, filed
suit late last week seeking to halt detentions under the program. He compared
the program with the roundups of Germans during World War I and the internment
of the Japanese during World War II.

"It's outrageous," Mr. Reed said. "This is another example of the government
overreacting to a threat."

Under the program, a foreign-born man from one of the selected countries appears
before an I.N.S. clerk and is asked for his parents' names and addresses, the
names and addresses of American contacts, his e-mail address and a form of
identification other than his passport and immigration document.

He is also digitally photographed and fingerprinted, with both the picture and
the prints run immediately against various criminal and immigration service
databases. He is also asked how he arrived in the United States and when, as
well as whether he has any connection to terrorist organizations.

Lawyers who have sat in on the proceedings said they found them chilling. "When
you're in this room and everybody around you is a Middle Eastern man, it really
sinks in," said Jacqueline Baronian, an immigration lawyer in New York. "It
looks like people are being rounded up, and it's very, very disturbing."

Ms. Baronian and other lawyers said that if a man was found to be violating the
terms of his visa, he was turned over to an investigation officer and detained.
If the violation is minor, bond is set at $1,500 to $7,500, according to those
who have been through the process.

One such man, who would not give his name because he said he was a member of a
prominent Iranian Jewish family in Los Angeles, said he came to register last
Tuesday and was immediately detained because his pending application for
permanent residency had been held up in I.N.S. proceedings for five years.

The man, whose family fled Iran after the 1979 revolution, is an Israeli citizen
but came to the United States in 1997 to be reunited with his family.

He spent all of Tuesday in the federal building lockup in Los Angeles, where he
said he saw dozens of men in similar circumstances. He then was taken by bus to
a jail in Pasadena, where he spent the night. He was later taken to an detention
center in Lancaster, about 40 miles north of Los Angeles, where his
father-in-law put up $1,500 bail to get him out on Thursday afternoon.

"This was the most embarrassing thing that ever happened to me," the man said.
"I am very respected in the business community here and I was just trying to do
the right thing, to help solve the problem this country has with terrorism."

He added: "We were treated like animals in Iran and all I want is for my kids to
grow up and say they're proud to be Americans. But until the day I die, I'm
going to be a foreigner in this country, because of the way I look and my
accent."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 24, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Court Upholds Registration Plan

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 129 words


A federal judge in Santa Ana, Calif., today dismissed a lawsuit seeking to end a
new registration program that is roiling immigrant communities.

The plaintiffs had accused the Immigration and Naturalization Service of
detaining people without notice of charges, a speedy arraignment or bond
hearings.

But the judge, Alicemarie H. Stotler of Federal District Court, ruled that they
had not met a burden of proof and that the court should not interfere with the
duties vested in the immigration agency.

The program requires citizens of 19 countries, including Iran, Iraq and North
Korea, who have temporary visas to register with the agency. Thousands of people
around the country have, and in California several hundred of them were detained
for overstaying their visas.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Cities, Two Immigrant Landings

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 617 words


The arrival of hundreds of poor immigrants, many without education or English
skills, caused great concern in Lewiston, Me., where old-line Yankee residents
worried about the town's capacity to absorb the newcomers. Tension was
inevitable.

That was more than a century and a half ago, when Irish refugees from the potato
famine came in search of work, quickly followed by a wave of French Canadians
who were recruited by the mills to increase production. After a sometimes
violent period of getting acquainted, the American model of acceptance and
cohabitation -- and eventually intermarriage -- took hold. And that was good for
the town, which staked its future on thriving textile mills and shoe factories.

Now the descendants of those immigrants are the community pillars, facing their
own test of the American way. More than 1,000 black Muslim refugees from civil
war, famine and disease in Somalia, many of them originally resettled in the
Atlanta area, began arriving in the town of 36,000, unannounced, nearly two
years ago. The women wear native dress, and the men gather at a makeshift
mosque. Nonetheless, the Somalis have worked to fit into a community that is
ambivalent about them. Mayor Laurier Raymond Jr. let the strain show when he
used an open letter last fall to plead with his new Somali neighbors to stop the
migration.

The mayor has said that he meant no ill will, that he was simply reacting to the
depletion of city services. But a point was made, and whether by coincidence or
in response, the flow of Somalis to Lewiston has sharply slowed in recent weeks.
That may not be good for Lewiston. In the state with the fewest nonwhites and
one of the oldest and sparsest populations, Lewiston has shrunk by some 6,000
residents in the last three decades. Its young people, facing newly shuttered
factories, have joined a migration from the Northeast. Lewiston enjoys low
unemployment, low crime, good schools and affordable housing -- all of which
lured the Somalis, who did not like the poor urban neighborhoods they left
behind. Half the Somali adults are employed so far. Some are starting small
businesses, while others are getting job training and learning English. They are
becoming contributing members of the community, just what Lewiston needs.

In New York State, another city found itself in similar straits but has taken a
different approach. That city, Schenectady, has lost nearly one-quarter of its
population -- going from 80,000 to 62,000 -- since 1960. Its mayor, Albert
Jurczynski, the grandson of Polish immigrants, is working to reverse that trend.
"We need new blood," he says. So he is recruiting Guyanese living in New York
City, 150 miles to the south. On many Saturdays, a bus takes potential
resettlers from Queens for a day trip and a sales pitch that touts Schenectady's
livability. With his city stronger by some 3,000 Guyanese, the mayor reports
that communities are being revitalized, new businesses are opening, and property
values are going up for the first time in a dozen years.

The secondary migration of both these groups is not unusual. The Hmong from Laos
left Pennsylvania and Minnesota to make a community in the Central Valley of
California. Large numbers of Vietnamese came together in Orange County, Calif.
Bosnians have gone to Utica, N.Y. These are the Little Italys and Chinatowns of
today.

In this new wave, immigrants are finding opportunities away from large cities.
Their impact, especially in older, smaller towns, can be enormous and positive.
Schenectady sees its future with the Guyanese. And while immigrants like the
Somalis need places like Lewiston, places like Lewiston can survive only with
immigrants like the Somalis.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing South: Florida: Repatriations To Cuba And Other Antilles

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 82 words


The Coast Guard has repatriated 59 immigrants to Cuba, the Dominican Republic
and Haiti, officials said.

The largest group had 36 Haitians, who were stopped on Friday on a Bahamian
boat. That group had initially refused to stop when the Coast Guard approached
it two miles east of Hallandale Beach, officials said. Also on Friday, the Coast
Guard rescued seven Cubans from a sinking raft south of Key Largo. Sixteen
Dominicans were found on Saturday 15 miles southwest of Mona Island, P.R.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          December 25, 2002 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Two Cities, Two Immigrant Landings

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 617 words


The arrival of hundreds of poor immigrants, many without education or English
skills, caused great concern in Lewiston, Me., where old-line Yankee residents
worried about the town's capacity to absorb the newcomers. Tension was
inevitable.

That was more than a century and a half ago, when Irish refugees from the potato
famine came in search of work, quickly followed by a wave of French Canadians
who were recruited by the mills to increase production. After a sometimes
violent period of getting acquainted, the American model of acceptance and
cohabitation -- and eventually intermarriage -- took hold. And that was good for
the town, which staked its future on thriving textile mills and shoe factories.

Now the descendants of those immigrants are the community pillars, facing their
own test of the American way. More than 1,000 black Muslim refugees from civil
war, famine and disease in Somalia, many of them originally resettled in the
Atlanta area, began arriving in the town of 36,000, unannounced, nearly two
years ago. The women wear native dress, and the men gather at a makeshift
mosque. Nonetheless, the Somalis have worked to fit into a community that is
ambivalent about them. Mayor Laurier Raymond Jr. let the strain show when he
used an open letter last fall to plead with his new Somali neighbors to stop the
migration.

The mayor has said that he meant no ill will, that he was simply reacting to the
depletion of city services. But a point was made, and whether by coincidence or
in response, the flow of Somalis to Lewiston has sharply slowed in recent weeks.
That may not be good for Lewiston. In the state with the fewest nonwhites and
one of the oldest and sparsest populations, Lewiston has shrunk by some 6,000
residents in the last three decades. Its young people, facing newly shuttered
factories, have joined a migration from the Northeast. Lewiston enjoys low
unemployment, low crime, good schools and affordable housing -- all of which
lured the Somalis, who did not like the poor urban neighborhoods they left
behind. Half the Somali adults are employed so far. Some are starting small
businesses, while others are getting job training and learning English. They are
becoming contributing members of the community, just what Lewiston needs.

In New York State, another city found itself in similar straits but has taken a
different approach. That city, Schenectady, has lost nearly one-quarter of its
population -- going from 80,000 to 62,000 -- since 1960. Its mayor, Albert
Jurczynski, the grandson of Polish immigrants, is working to reverse that trend.
"We need new blood," he says. So he is recruiting Guyanese living in New York
City, 150 miles to the south. On many Saturdays, a bus takes potential
resettlers from Queens for a day trip and a sales pitch that touts Schenectady's
livability. With his city stronger by some 3,000 Guyanese, the mayor reports
that communities are being revitalized, new businesses are opening, and property
values are going up for the first time in a dozen years.

The secondary migration of both these groups is not unusual. The Hmong from Laos
left Pennsylvania and Minnesota to make a community in the Central Valley of
California. Large numbers of Vietnamese came together in Orange County, Calif.
Bosnians have gone to Utica, N.Y. These are the Little Italys and Chinatowns of
today.

In this new wave, immigrants are finding opportunities away from large cities.
Their impact, especially in older, smaller towns, can be enormous and positive.
Schenectady sees its future with the Guyanese. And while immigrants like the
Somalis need places like Lewiston, places like Lewiston can survive only with
immigrants like the Somalis.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Christmas Is a Lonely Day For an Immigrant Laborer

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y., Dec. 25


Juan wished he could spend Christmas with his family instead of with other
lonely men like himself. But he and his four roommates, immigrant day laborers
far from their sunny Central American homes, did their best to make the holiday
festive.

They inherited a plastic Christmas tree from the previous tenant in their
two-bedroom apartment in this prosperous Westchester County suburb and decorated
it for the season, with shiny bells, a miniature polar bear, a bow embroidered
"Feliz Navidad" and a music box tucked within the branches that played "Silent
Night."

On Christmas Eve, a woman who is their friend cooked tamales for the men, a
generous gesture that only reminded them that their wives' or their mothers'
were more delicious. Then Juan's roommates departed for a holiday party, and he
turned to the telephone, his surest tie to his wife and three children in
Guatemala.

With a prepaid $5 calling card, he could talk for 40 minutes, Juan said, asking
that only his first be used because of his illegal status in the United States.
He punched in the numbers. Busy. He tried again. More of the same. Roughly
50,000 Hispanic immigrants have flowed into the county in the last decade, and
it seemed as if all of them were trying to call home at the same time.

Juan's heart has been in Guatemala for weeks now. Normally he sends his family
$150 every two weeks. But last week he sent $250. He also adopted an American
tradition, joining the crowds at the department stores the Friday after
Thanksgiving and buying Barbie dolls, toy cars and new clothes. His wife,
Emilia, wrapped the gifts he sent home and put them under a faraway tree.

At last, after half an hour of busy signals, the phone rang. Juan blew kisses
into the mouthpiece. Emilia wept. Before he came to this country, Juan said, he
could afford no presents. Now, with houses to paint, grass to cut and cars to
wash, he can splurge. But the price is loneliness.

Juan, 26, has already built his young family a one-level wooden house, with a
little yard, in their hometown, Pajapita. He plans to save $10,000 and return
home to open a bodega with Emilia, his sweetheart since adolescence; they
married when they were 18.

"Look! These are my children," he said, flushing but proud, as he showed
visitors recent photographs of his children, Carla, 7; Carlos, 5; and Gabriela,
3, each holding a single flaming red flower in front of the house, beaming
brightly into the lens.

"My kids are growing up," he said wistfully, staring at the blinking Christmas
tree. "They need Papa home."

Unable to sleep on Christmas morning, a rare day off, Juan rose at 6. He propped
open the window and sucked in the cold, damp Mamaroneck air and wondered what
his children were doing. Probably sleeping, he said. He imagined their faces,
smiling and laughing when they got up and unwrapped their gifts. Gazing from the
window onto a deserted side street in downtown Mamaroneck, Juan took in the
forlorn winter trees. "Christmas at home is a lot prettier than here," he said.

For one thing, Christmas in Guatemala is much warmer. For another, it is not
only a one-day holiday, but rather a season, beginning on Dec. 3 and celebrated
daily with music, dancing, processions and colorful clothes.

There, December is a lush oasis in the drab desert of poverty. Mothers, wives
and daughters cook tamales, a traditional Christmas staple of pork, chicken,
beef, peas and potatoes wrapped inside corn dough. Children sing carols for
candies from house to house in front of stables populated by little figurines of
Joseph, Mary, Jesus and the shepherds. Hundreds of people follow the elaborate
processions enacting the story of the nine nights before the birth of Jesus,
starting on Dec. 16. House parties abound.

Juan has never even met his youngest child, Gabriela. When poverty sent him on
his northward journey three years ago, through Mexico, across the border and
into the Texas desert, Emilia was pregnant. And Carlos probably does not
remember him either, Juan said. He was not even 2 when his father departed.

"I have to do what I have to do quickly," Juan said. "I need to go home."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juan, 26, whose wife and children remain in Guatemala, enjoyed a
Christmas tamale in the Westchester apartment he shares with four men. (Angela
Jimenez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 26, 2002 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Poor Role Model

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 88 words


To the Editor:

Re "U.S. Starts Freeing Foreigners Detained in Antiterror Sweep" (news article,
Dec. 20):

While reading about the detention of Iranians by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Los Angeles, I couldn't help but remember my time in
Iran in the early 1970's. While I was there, citizens would simply disappear,
arrested by the government without charge or even family notification.

Should our civil liberties be modeled after those in Iran 30 years ago?

MARILYN F. LIBRESCO
Castro Valley, Calif., Dec. 21, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 27, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Billboard Case Settled

BYLINE:  By Andy Newman (NYT) (Compiled by Shaila K. Dewan)

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 108 words


The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey has settled a free-speech suit
filed after the agency removed a billboard questioning United States immigration
policy from one of its buildings, the group responsible for the billboard said
yesterday.

In 2000, the group, ProjectUSA, bought space on a billboard on a Port Authority
building in Brooklyn near the Brooklyn Bridge. The billboard read, "Immigration
is doubling U.S. population in our lifetimes." ProjectUSA, a group that supports
a moratorium on immigration, said that it could not discuss the terms of the
settlement. The Port Authority declined to comment on it.   Andy Newman (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 27, 2002 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Rockies: Colorado: Jail For Middle Eastern Students

BYLINE:  By Mindy Sink (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 102 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service jailed several Middle Eastern
students in Colorado because they did not have enough college courses to
maintain their student visas. The students were held about 48 hours and will
have to appear before a federal judge. About 10 students had gone to the agency
this month to meet a registration deadline for people who come from countries
the federal government has identified as having ties to terrorism. University of
Colorado officials said one detained student was one hour under a full course
load after receiving permission to drop a class.   Mindy Sink (NYT)



URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 28, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Welcome Mat Frays

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 597 words


The United States has always been a special destination for those fleeing
oppression. Sadly, that seems to be changing. A 1996 law gravely limited
America's embrace of those fleeing persecution. Now, in the name of fighting
terror, the Bush administration has put additional limits on asylum seekers.
Caution after Sept. 11 is warranted, but some of the new regulations have no
possible anti-terror justification. The United States can find ways to protect
legitimate asylum seekers without admitting those who wish the nation ill.

For years, America detained only those immigrants considered dangerous or likely
to flee. But under the 1996 law, anyone arriving at an airport or border post
without proper documents -- the vast majority of asylum seekers -- and anyone
requesting asylum even with proper documentation is automatically jailed. Such
mandatory detention is expensive and abusive -- especially for people who were
imprisoned in their home countries.

The 1996 law also set up a process called expedited removal. Immigration
inspectors are allowed to turn away with no meaningful review those crossing the
border or arriving at airports, a deportation previously handled only by trained
immigration judges. Groups that work with immigrants have documented cases in
which people legitimately fleeing persecution have been instantly deported,
sometimes after interviews conducted with inadequate translators or under
intimidatingly abusive conditions.

Yet the Bush administration has expanded expedited removal to include those
arriving by sea. Since Cubans are specifically exempted, the program now aims
largely at Haitians -- not a group with any particular connection to terror.
Also new is a provision that allows the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to detain people even if an immigration judge has ordered that they be released
on bond while they wait for their asylum hearings. Another new regulation
restricts the Board of Immigration Appeals's ability to review the decisions of
immigration judges, a critical avenue of appeal.

More limitations may be in the works. The I.N.S. is being dissolved into the new
Department of Homeland Security. That means vulnerable refugees will have no
high-level advocate. Asylum seekers landing at America's airports or borders
will be handled, and possibly deported, by guards whose background is law
enforcement and mission is solely to prevent the entry of terrorists. They may
not be terribly interested in the plight of those fleeing oppression.

It is more necessary than ever to abolish expedited removal, and return to a
system in which deportations can be ordered only by trained judges. If that does
not happen, the president and Tom Ridge, who will head the department, must
emphasize the need to protect asylum seekers.

People who inspect documents at airports and borders must receive better
training in the right of asylum and ways to treat those who seek it fairly and
humanely. America's 20 or so major airports and border entry posts should have
good translators on call and have at least one trained asylum officer, who knows
how to interview traumatized people and is familiar with repressive conditions
in various countries. The department's rules must ensure that decisions
affecting asylum take the needs and rights of asylum seekers into account.

Many of the new anti-asylum provisions appear to be purely punitive, a way to
simply discourage people from seeking refuge in the United States. They can be
reversed to admit those legitimately fleeing persecution with no sacrifice to
American safety.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 28, 2002 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

New York, Citing Security, Rejects Mexican ID Cards

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1000 words


Dozens of local and state governments now recognize an embossed Mexican consular
document as a valid form of identification for Mexicans who are here legally or
illegally.

But New York City and New York State, with one of the fastest-growing Mexican
populations in the nation, are not about to join them.

Citing security concerns, Police Department officials said they had rejected
requests from the consulate to accept the new "matricula consular," or consular
ID card, as proof of identity for Mexican immigrants.

The State Department of Motor Vehicles also has refused to recognize the
consular card, issued since March by Mexico's 43 consulates in the United
States, to its list of approved identity documents for obtaining a driver's
license.

Their reluctance -- and similar resistance in New Jersey, Connecticut and other
Northeastern states -- stands out against a trend elsewhere in the country.
Thirteen states now accept the Mexican consular ID for purposes of applying for
a driver's license, and hundreds of police departments recognize it as proof of
identity.

"I'm surprised that a state and city that are otherwise immigrant-friendly, or
at least supposed to be, would not accept it," said Juan A. Figueroa, president
of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, a Hispanic advocacy group.
"These are by and large the people who make up the economic infrastructure of
the city."

Many of the nation's illegal immigrants do not have any valid form of
identification, like a driver's license. If they have a passport, they often
fear showing it to the authorities. Even foreigners living here legally rarely
carry their passports with them, fearing they could be lost or stolen.

The lack of an identity card is not fatal in New York City; a library card can
be obtained with a valid utility bill, and children can be enrolled in public
school without their parents showing a photo ID. But it can have dire
consequences in some cases.

In New York City, as in many cities, the police will not release a person who is
arrested on minor charges, and cannot provide an acceptable form of
identification, before a court appearance.

After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, possession of a valid photo ID card has
also become a prerequisite to enter many office buildings, board an airplane,
buy a ticket for a long-distance train ride or wire money. The level of anxiety
among Mexicans is reflected in the popularity of the consular IDs. The New York
consulate said it expected to issue nearly 20,000 of them by the end of the
year, compared with 7,800 last year.

The Mexican consul general here, Salvador Beltran del Rio Madrid, said he had
campaigned privately, and with limited success, for recognition of the matricula
consular, making his case to government officials and the police. But immigrant
groups in New York have not lobbied for its acceptance and it has not been
publicly debated.

In other cities, the validity of the Mexican ID card has prompted heated debates
over whether recognition would amount to legitimization of illegal immigrants.
New York politicians, however, rarely raise issues relating to the legal or
illegal status of immigrants.

Instead, the conversations in city and state offices over the Mexican ID have
focused on the heightened concerns over security and identity fraud since the
terrorist attacks.

Assemblyman Peter M. Rivera of the Bronx said he had met several times with
officials of the Motor Vehicles Department in an attempt to have the consular
card accepted as a form of identification to obtain a driver's license. He has
not succeeded.

"They said that the New York state driver's license is seen as such a valuable
ID around the nation, because of the point system and everything else, that it's
treasured around the nation as an excellent ID," said Mr. Rivera. "So they
question whether by having this collateral issue, it would weaken the value of
the state driver's license."

New York State uses a system that assigns points to different types of
identification documents and first-time applicants for a driver's license must
show six points of identification as well as proof of their birth dates and
Social Security numbers.

A valid United States passport, for instance, is worth four points. A
naturalization certificate is worth three points, as are green cards and foreign
passports with valid student or business visas. A major credit card counts for
one point. Only certain documents -- a passport for example -- are accepted as
proof of an applicant's birth date.

Mr. Rivera said he had suggested that the state send specialists to Mexico to
study the security protections that the Mexicans contend are built in to the
consular cards. If the state wants additional safeguards, he said, they could
require them of Mexico as they have done in the past in the case of Canadian
citizens seeking licenses.

Although intelligence officers from the New York Police Department have
interviewed officials at the Mexican consulate here, they have not recommended
that the department accept the consular ID. A law enforcement officer said the
department's opposition was based on security concerns, but he declined to be
more specific.

Mexican officials maintain that their consular ID card, based on corroborating
government documents from Mexico and designed to thwart counterfeiting, is
secure. It shows a current photograph, date of birth and the address of the
holder.

A number of banks, on the other hand, have come to see Mexican laborers as
potentially profitable customers who spend millions of dollars each year in fees
to transfer money back home. At least 60 United States financial institutions,
according to the Mexican government, now accept the consular ID as one of
generally two identity documents required to open a bank account.

Among those banks are Citibank, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and FleetBoston.
"We view it as a very legitimate form of identification," said James W.
Schepker, a spokesman for FleetBoston in Hartford.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            December 30, 2002 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

America's Great Heart

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 126 words


To the Editor:

"Two Cities, Two Immigrant Landings" (editorial, Dec. 25) draws a parallel
between poor immigrants coming to Lewiston, Me., 150 years ago, "recruited by
the mills to increase production," and poor immigrants from Somalia coming to
Lewiston now "facing newly shuttered factories."

Small wonder Mayor Laurier Raymond Jr. pleads with Somalis to stop coming.

America has a great heart. Witness its welcome of the Hmong, Vietnamese and
Bosnians mentioned in the editorial. But immigration, now at a rate five times
what it was when my grandfather arrived at Ellis Island, will break that heart
on the welfare rolls of a hundred cities like Lewiston unless immigration is
limited to sustainable rates.

JOHN DEBOER
Green Valley, Ariz., Dec. 27, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 31, 2002 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing New England: Maine: Competing Rallies

BYLINE:  By Katherine Zezima (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 101 words


A white supremacist group and an advocacy group for Somali immigrants are
planning rival demonstrations in Lewiston on Jan. 11.

The supremacist group, the World Church of the Creator, will call for the
expulsion of the city's 1,100 Somali residents in a rally on a National Guard
property five miles from downtown. The Somali Justice Advocacy Center said it
would probably organize a peaceful gathering that day. In October, Mayor Laurier
T. Raymond Jr. wrote an open letter to the Somali community, asking that members
stop others from immigrating to the city of 36,000 people.   Katherine Zezima
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2002 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 2, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Land of Opportunity?

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 141 words


To the Editor:

A Dec. 30 letter writer correctly points out that the unskilled and unpropertied
immigrants of 150 years ago could find employment in manufacturing, while those
of today are faced with a stagnant economy and the cold comfort of the welfare
rolls.

The sad irony is that many of those manufacturing jobs have gone overseas,
chasing lower wages and less regulation, to some of the very countries that the
contemporary immigrant has left in search of a better life.

Several rungs have been removed from the ladder of upward mobility, and America
is no longer the land of opportunity that it once was.

Perhaps our rhetoric should change to match the realities, and the Statue of
Liberty's inscription should read "Stay home and work in the maquiladora --
there's nothing for you here anymore."

THOMAS IMPOLA
New Paltz, N.Y., Dec. 31, 2002

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 4, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Immigrant Family, No Easy Journeys

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1969 words


Yan Hua Zheng was worried about the crabs: they might not survive a 20-hour bus
ride. She knew that her two daughters, who moved to the mountains of north
Georgia two months earlier, missed fresh crab, a Fujianese favorite, but the
crabs are no good unless they go into the pot alive.

So Ms. Zheng instead bought Chinese groceries that could endure her own journey
to rural Georgia. She was moving from New York to reunite with her family. She
rode the subway back home to Herald Square from Chinatown with orange and red
shopping bags teeming with pickled radishes, dried mushrooms, shredded pork and
soy milk.

Packing to leave a city after a decade is hard. Leaving via Greyhound is even
harder: life has to be collapsed into bags that do not exceed 70 pounds. And a
lifetime of experiences must be collapsed into the space of a single bus seat,
to be expanded again only when the door opens and lets in the strangeness of a
new environment, a new climate, a new stage of life.

Ms. Zheng, 39, moved to Manhattan a decade ago from her hometown in Fujian, a
coastal province in southeastern China. At Thanksgiving time, she was making the
second leg of her life journey, to Hiawassee, a small town in the northeast
corner of Georgia.

In the last decade, waves of rural immigrants from Fujian have come to New York
City. Tens of thousands arrived illegally, paying $30,000, $50,000 and even more
to organized gangs of smugglers -- known as snakeheads -- to buy their chance at
the American dream. In New York, they crowded each other out, out of homes, out
of jobs.

Now the Fujianese are fanning out from New York City: north to Boston, south to
Virginia, west to Tennessee. Some, like Ms. Zheng's family, are landing in small
towns in the rural South like Hiawassee. "Every state has a Chinese restaurant,"
she said, explaining the feasibility of such moves. "Americans depend on us to
eat."

She was leaving the only place in the country that had an identity to the
Fujianese: New York City. Other parts of the United States are not called
Indiana or Virginia or Georgia. Instead they are collectively known as waizhou
-- Mandarin Chinese for "out of state."

For the Fujianese, waizhou is more than a geographic description. It is the
white space left over where there is no New York, no Chinatown, no East
Broadway. Waizhou is where fathers and sons go away for weeks and months at a
time to work 12-hour days in Chinese restaurants. Waizhou is crisscrossed by
Greyhound bus routes and dotted with little towns, all of which either already
have or could use a Chinese restaurant. Waizhou schools are better. In waizhou,
supermarkets sell crab meat prepackaged in boxes.

Ms. Zheng was reluctant to leave, but her husband had insisted on buying a
Chinese restaurant in Hiawassee, a town of 850 people that prides itself for
being two hours away from everywhere, including Atlanta. He argued that the
restaurant could give them the financial and family stability that eluded them
in New York. Her husband and two daughters left months before; now she was going
with her young son in her lap to join them.

A Second Migration

Ms. Zheng came to New York after paying $30,000 to snakeheads for a fake
passport and a plane ticket. She left her husband, John Ni, behind with their
4-year-old daughter, Jolin. Three years later, Mr. Ni left Jolin, too. He was
given asylum in the United States on religious grounds, and that allowed his
wife to become a legal resident as well.

He had no idea of how hard it would be to earn American money with poor English
skills. In Fujian, he had graduated from college and held a low-stress job as an
accountant. But in the United States, he worked as a waiter, slowly learning the
restaurant business. Ms. Zheng worked in garment factories. Sometimes she even
slept there, her head by the sewing machine.

They lived at 31st and Broadway, in a building filled with Fujianese crowded
four or five to a room. The building is a study in the art of vertical living:
bunk beds, wooden lofts, shelves that reach to the ceiling, boards strung across
pipes to create storage space. It is a building full of takeout deliverymen. At
night, the doorway is surrounded by dozens of chained bicycles.

In 1998, they had another daughter, Nancy, whom they sent back to China to be
raised by her grandparents. A year later, they had a son. They named him Jeffrey
but called him Momo, from their local Chinese dialect for "no hair." Ms. Zheng
decided to keep him at her side.

A year and a half ago, Jolin got a visa and moved here, joining parents she had
not seen in 10 years, in a one-room apartment. Nancy was brought by her
grandparents three months later.

John Ni was from the countryside, and had never really felt comfortable with
life in Manhattan, the crowds, the clutter, the smells. He was tired of their
family living in a single room where they cooked in a makeshift kitchen in the
bathroom.

In July, the couple heard from a friend about a modest Chinese restaurant called
China Grill for sale in Hiawassee, a town whose name Ms. Zheng could barely
pronounce. Mr. Ni went down to see the place. It was in a strip mall, sandwiched
between a Dairy Queen and a Subway sandwich shop. The eight tables were set with
A.1. steak sauce and Chinese zodiac place mats. The letters out front were in
faux Chinese calligraphy.

Mr. Ni liked Hiawassee: it was small and the landscape reminded him of home. For
the same rent as they paid for their 250-square-foot room in New York City, the
family could get a 1,250-square-foot apartment with two bedrooms, seven closets
and a washer and dryer. On the phone, he told Jolin that she could go fishing in
the nearby lake.

Hiawassee seemed safer than a big city, where stories of men being beaten or
killed while delivering food was a common currency among the Fujianese. A
relative of Ms. Zheng's was shot and killed in a restaurant holdup a few years
ago in Philadelphia. She hated the idea of living in the middle of nowhere, but
she relented.

In September, after borrowing money from friends and family, they bought the
restaurant, for $60,000. Mr. Ni went first, buying a 1992 Cutlass Cierra for
$1,300. Then he learned to drive.

Nancy and Jolin took the Greyhound down to Hiawassee in October; Ms. Zheng
stayed behind with Momo to deal with a crisis. Their apartment had been robbed
in August, and someone stole a safe with $10,000 in cash, jewelry and many legal
papers -- including birth certificates and passports. Ms. Zheng was stuck here a
little while longer untangling the mess.

In Georgia, business was slow -- the tourist season in the Appalachians was over
-- but the customers were friendly. One man gave Mr. Ni a fishing rod. A local
artist took the girls to register at school. On the first day of classes, one of
Jolin's classmates asked her if she was in New York on Sept. 11, 2001. She
couldn't understand what the other child said. Then a boy went up to the board
and drew two buildings and a plane.

Jolin found waizhou boring, but she also found beauty. On her first trip to
Atlanta, she gazed out at 14 lanes of densely packed car lights -- one river of
red, one white -- that flowed to and from the night horizon on Interstate 85.
"They look like ants moving up a mountain," she said. "It's prettier than New
York."

There was a wonderful place called "Wama," which was huge, and sold everything
from milk to underwear to televisions, at good prices. The man at the door gave
out yellow smiley stickers that said "WAL-MART."

But she was surprised by the Chinatowns in waizhou. The ones on Atlanta's Buford
Highway were U-shaped strip malls. And instead of densely packed streets, the
"Chinatowns" had huge parking lots that overflowed on weekends.

Atlanta Has Fresh Crabs

Greyhound doesn't stop in Hiawassee, so when she finally straightened out
everything in New York, Ms. Zheng bought a ticket for Gainesville, Ga. -- an
hour of winding mountain roads away.

She left on Nov. 26. On the way to the Port Authority bus terminal, she passed
bands practicing for the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in Herald Square. At the
terminal, Ms. Zheng looked for her gate with seven bags and a toddler in tow. A
woman with a polka dot scarf waiting at the gate tried to be helpful. "Donde
va?" she asked. Ms. Zheng stared back.

Ms. Zheng sat near the front, next to the lady in the polka dot scarf, because
the back of buses made her carsick. When the Lincoln Tunnel spit out the bus
into New Jersey, Ms. Zheng held her son and looked back at the Manhattan
skyline. She had paid $30,000 to move to New York; she had paid $59 to Greyhound
to leave.

Momo, quickly tiring of his confined space, exasperated some other passengers
with his thorough exploration of the bus.

"Who has cold medicine to knock him out?" piped up one man.

"What he needs is a shot of rum -- straight up," called out another passenger.

Ms. Zheng did not understand what they were saying, but she could read the tone
of their voices.

The industrial landscape of Interstate 95 melted into the hollow stretches of
Interstate 85. Baltimore. Richmond, Va., where there was a delay. Charlotte,
N.C., where she had to change buses. Spartanburg, N.C., Greenville, S.C. The
hills and trees along Interstate 85 reminded Ms. Zheng of her village and her
father's farm. The temperature rose, and there were leaves on the trees.

In the Charlotte bus depot, she met a Fujianese man on his way back to Tennessee
after a New York City vacation. He gave Ms. Zheng almost $100 worth of seafood
that he was afraid would spoil because his bus was delayed.

The clams and abalone were still fresh, but the crabs had died between Richmond
and Charlotte. They were big ones, the kind that cost $7 a pound.

After 24 hours, Ms. Zheng arrived at her final bus depot. She waited and waited
for her husband. A voice pierced through the crowd. "Hello! Hello!"

Mr. Ni rushed up, scooped up his son and hugged him. Husband and wife looked at
each other. They had not seen each other for two months. There was no embrace.

It was 3 a.m. by the time they reached their home in Hiawassee, where there was
still some clean white mountain snow on the ground. Mr. Ni turned on the bedroom
light and shook his daughters. Jolin woke up, bleary-eyed. She looked around and
her face brightened when she realized who was there. She immediately hugged her
little brother. "He smells," she said.

Nancy continued to sleep on the mattress on the floor. "She's gotten chubbier,"
Ms. Zheng observed, looking at her younger daughter. She'd been eating snacks
from the restaurant, Jolin explained.

Jolin dragged the bags in from the car. She jumped on 14 videotapes her mother
had brought of a popular Chinese serial opera. Mr. Ni swung Momo around,
laughing.

Ms. Zheng watched the two of them. For the first time in their lives, the pieces
of the family puzzle were complete. It was a family that barely knew each other,
but now had only each other to depend on.

After the restaurant closed the next night, the family had their first dinner
together in months. Ms. Zheng brought out the chilled clams from Charlotte to go
along with the stir-fried broccoli and sesame chicken. The clam was good when
dipped in wasabi mixed with soy sauce. But it wasn't crab.

So at her first opportunity, Ms. Zheng endured a two-hour journey of winding
roads to Atlanta. (She threw up twice; New York subways are not adequate
preparation for winding roads.) She brought back two bags of crabs and steamed
them for dinner. "They are not much more expensive than in New York," she said.

The family sat around the table. They had no need for crab crackers, breaking
the warm red shells with fingers and teeth. It was a lot of effort for thin
slivers of white crab meat and spoonsful of orange roe. But they thought it was
worth it. "Fujianese are not afraid of hard work," Jolin said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yan Hua Zheng leaving New York for a new life in Georgia. She
made the trip by bus with her son. (Michael Nagle for The New York Times)(pg.
A1); Yan Hua Zheng calls the kitchen in her new two-bedroom apartment in
Hiawassee, Ga., where her family recently moved, "really big."; Yan Hua Zheng
used to cook in a makeshift kitchen in the bathroom of her family's Manhattan
apartment, where she, her husband, John Ni, and their three children shared one
room. They are among many immigrants from Fujian Province, China, who are now
spreading out from New York. (Photographs by Michael Nagle for The New York
Times)(pg. B4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 7, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mother Used Sniper Suspect As Collateral, Report Says

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 540 words


Lee Malvo, the 17-year-old held in the sniper shootings near Washington, may
have been handed over to the older defendant in the case, John Muhammad, by his
mother as collateral to guarantee that she would pay for forged immigration
documents, according to an Antiguan government report released yesterday.

Investigators in Antigua believe, according to the report, that Mr. Malvo's
mother, Una James, handed her son over to Mr. Muhammad to obtain forged
documents that she used to enter the United States in 2001. The report said
there was evidence, from interviews with a witness, that Mr. Muhammad "held onto
Malvo as security" until Ms. James could repay him.

The 12-page report is the work of a four-member task force assigned by the
Antiguan government to examine Mr. Muhammad's activities in Antigua, a small
Caribbean island of 67,000 people. The task force began its work soon after Mr.
Muhammad and Mr. Malvo were arrested in October at a rest stop in Maryland.

Mr. Muhammad, 41, is facing trial in one killing, and prosecutors are seeking
the death penalty. Officials investigating the sniper shootings said that the
evidence pointing to Mr. Muhammad's involvement in the sniper attacks remained
circumstantial and did not prove that he was the gunman.

In total, the men are suspects in 21 shootings, including 13 deaths, in Alabama,
Georgia, Louisiana, Maryland, Virginia, Washington and the District of Columbia.
They are being tried first in Virginia on capital murder charges in two attacks.

Ms. James left her native Jamaica alone in 1998, when Mr. Malvo was 12, and
after a brief trip to St. Maarten she settled in the Cashew Hill section of
Antigua. Investigators believe that Mr. Malvo did not join her until 1999.

In 2001, Ms. James used forged immigration documents to enter the United States
and settled in Fort Myers, Fla. The report released yesterday says there is
evidence that those documents were prepared by Mr. Muhammad. Mr. Malvo did not
join his mother in the United States for several months, investigators said.

A senior law enforcement official said yesterday that the evidence that Mr.
Malvo was being held as collateral for payment for the documents came from
Jeremiah Neal, who married Ms. James while she was in Fort Myers. The law
enforcement official also said there was new evidence that at some point Mr.
Muhammad traveled to Fort Myers.

In Florida, Mr. Malvo was enrolled in high school for 39 days before joining Mr.
Muhammad in Washington State. The first killings that the men have been accused
of occurred a few months later. Ms. James was deported in December.

The report released yesterday said Mr. Muhammad made at least $60,000 selling 20
falsified documents, including United States birth certificates and driver's
licenses. "He found a fertile market in selling forged U.S. travel documents,"
said John Fuller, chairman of the Antiguan task force.

Mr. Muhammad also is believed to have bought large numbers of airline tickets at
once for those to whom he sold documents, and sometimes accompanied clients on
trips to the United States, according to the report. Mr. Muhammad also illegally
obtained four Antiguan passports, but Mr. Fuller said they "were of little value
in the market."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 9, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Minister in Mexico Will Quit, Frustrated by the U.S.

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 8


Mexico's foreign minister, Jorge G. Castaneda, will leave the government next
week, frustrated over the stalemate in his country's relations with the United
States since the attacks of Sept. 11 and the antiterrorism campaign born of
them.

Mr. Castaneda has told close associates that he will return to the academic life
he left when he joined the government of President Vicente Fox. His successor,
officials said, will most likely be Luis Ernesto Derbez, Mexico's low-key
finance minister and a former World Bank official, who has criticized the North
American Free Trade Agreement's failure to benefit Mexico's poor.

Mr. Castaneda did not comment publicly on the resignation today.

Mr. Castaneda and Mr. Fox formed one of Mexico's unlikelier political unions.
Mr. Castaneda is an intellectual who came out of the left wing, a political
scientist by trade. Mr. Fox was a conservative provincial politician, a former
Coca-Cola executive, when Mr. Castaneda joined his political crusade to topple
70 years of one-party rule in Mexico.

After his election in 2000, Mr. Fox and Mr. Castaneda sought "to create a new
perception of Mexico in the world," said Jeffrey Davidow, the United States
ambassador here from 1998 to 2002.

They said they wanted to make Mexico a more open society, less insular and
inward. In particular, they tried to transform Mexico's relations with the
United States, seeking new accords on immigration, trade and energy.

They thought they had a willing partner in President Bush, who made Mexico his
first stop abroad as president and made Mr. Fox the guest at his first state
dinner.

But those efforts all but halted after the terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington in September 2001. Mr. Castaneda tried repeatedly to convince the
Bush administration that a new arrangement on immigration, including legal
status and documentation for millions of Mexicans in the United States, would
enhance American national security. He got nowhere.

"We have to make the U.S.-Mexico relationship, the Fox-Bush relationship, a
demonstrable success story," Mr. Castaneda said in an interview last year. "We
need substance. And in order to have substance, given what both presidents and
both governments have said from the beginning, we need a deal on immigration."

When it became apparent last fall that such a deal was not in the works, Mr.
Castaneda began thinking about his departure.

"Castaneda gave Mexico its first high-profile and ambitious foreign policy,"
said Rolando Cordera, a political analyst in Mexico City. "But after Sept. 11,
because the United States decided that the world had to change, Mexico faced a
hostile situation."

The son of a former foreign minister of Mexico, educated at Princeton
University, Mr. Castaneda, 49, has taught at New York University and written a
small shelf of books. Last year, he worked to win a seat for Mexico on the
United Nations Security Council, where it played a major role in forging a
unanimous resolution on weapons inspections in Iraq.

His resignation, which will be the first from Mr. Fox's cabinet, has been long
sought by his many political opponents. In fact, few in Mexican politics have
more enemies.

"He is an anomaly in Mexican politics," said the historian Carlos Monsivais. "He
comes from the left. He speaks directly. And he does not worry about the
personal consequences of his acts."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 11, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Backtracking on Mexico

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 377 words


Presidents Vicente Fox and George W. Bush both took office two years ago
promising to forge a new partnership bridging the Rio Grande, one marked by a
once-unimaginable level of cooperation on a number of fronts. It hasn't
happened, and as a result Mexico's enlightened foreign minister, Jorge
Castaneda, has resigned.

The centerpiece of the new relationship was to have been a new accord on
immigration. That encountered early resistance on Capitol Hill, and the
terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, rearranged the White House's priorities.
Washington has since failed to recognize that an immigration deal that serves
American economic needs and diminishes the population living illegally in this
country can be compatible with heightened security.

The White House's neglect has proved to be politically damaging to Mr. Fox's
administration. The Mexican government had to overcome widespread public
skepticism, and concerns about surrendering national sovereignty, to sell the
idea of a new understanding with the neighboring superpower. Mr. Castaneda was
the most outspoken advocate of closer ties with the United States. His
frustration over the stalemate in the relationship contributed to his decision
to resign.

Mr. Castaneda worked tirelessly to promote an immigration deal and closer
cooperation in fighting drug trafficking and on other law enforcement matters.
He ended Mexico's tradition of warm ties with Cuba in order to back American
denunciations of Fidel Castro's human rights record.

Beyond its failure to deliver on immigration, the Bush administration largely
missed an opportunity to collaborate with Mexico and Latin democracies in
dealing with a number of thorny hemispheric matters, most notably the crisis in
Venezuela.

Angry calls by Mexican farmers in recent weeks for their government to
renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement in response to the
ill-advised agricultural subsidies passed by Congress last summer would serve no
one's interest, as Mr. Castaneda has pointed out. But they are indicative of a
broader disenchantment with the United States that cuts across Mexican society.
The Bush administration should take note of Mr. Castaneda's frustration, and
seek to improve ties with our neighbor to the south.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 12, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Town Fights to Get Its Neighbors Back

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1381 words


WHEN Anna Sak was awakened by knocks on both the front and back doors of her
ranch-style house in Orange at 6 a.m. on Dec. 3, she was bewildered.

Five armed agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service had come to
take Ms. Sak, 46, her husband, Dariusz, 45, and her daughter, Joanne, 17, to the
agency's office in Hartford. Mr. Sak had been preparing to go to his job at a
Seymour machine shop and Joanne was getting ready for classes at Amity Regional
High School in Woodbridge, where she is a senior.

Later that morning in Storrs, agents arrested Ms. Sak's son, Arek, 19, a
sophomore and art major at the University of Connecticut, in a hallway just
outside a classroom as stunned students and professors watched. He was led out
of the building in handcuffs.

"You can imagine what it was like watching one of your students being handcuffed
and led away like that," said Ray DiCapua, associate professor of art who had
Arek in two of his sculpture classes. "Arek looked as though he didn't have any
idea what was happening."

Members of the family, who had lived in the state for 12 years, were allowed to
take whatever they could carry and were put on a plane back to Poland at JFK
International Airport, ending a long string of appeals to stay in the United
States permanently.

"We were waiting for a decision by the appeals board, and the next thing we know
these agents are in our home and we're forced to leave," Ms. Sak said from the
home of her in-laws in Poland, where the family is staying.

To their neighbors, the Sak family looked like any other suburban family. The
dad worked, the mom was home, they owned their house, the children were in
school and they had family around. Ms. Sak's four sisters had come from Poland
years before, settled in the state and had become citizens. What made the family
different was that they still were not citizens.

They had arrived in the United States in 1991 from Poland on a six-month
visitor's visa, but stuck around, seeking permanent residency and citizenship.
They became part of the community while they waited for a ruling from
immigration officials and in those years their children grew up into typical
American children.

"The only world my children have ever known is America," Ms. Sak said from
Poland. "They can have no life here at all. They don't speak the language well,
there are no jobs and they could never fit in with such a different culture.
They are American kids now living in a wasteland. All they keep asking is, 'Mom,
when can we go home?' "

Now, their former neighbors have taken up their battle, including the mayor of
Derby, who met the family in church. A petition drive is being led by former
Orange Republican Town Chairwoman Karen Arnold in the hope of getting more than
2,000 signatures to send to President Bush.
Professors and friends of Arek at UConn have also contacted members of the
state's congressional delegation about possible student visas for Arek and
Joanne Sak, as well as about a special act of Congress to allow them to return.

"We are looking into this matter to make sure all procedures were duly followed
and to see if there is anything that can be done to help," said Marvin Fast,
spokesman for Senator Christopher Dodd.

David Kopczanski, the building official in Derby and a longtime friend of the
family, said they seemed to have been punished for following the rules.

"They were a perfect, hard-working family that had all the American ideals of
getting ahead in life, owning their own home, educating their children and
living the American dream," Mr. Kopczanski said. "They felt they were following
the process and doing the right thing. They were in the computer system, unlike
millions of aliens in the country who are not living openly like the Saks."

To the immigration service, it is a simple matter. The family's requests to stay
were repeatedly rejected over the years, as was their strategy to seek political
asylum. When their latest appeal was rejected in late August, family members
were told they had 30 days to leave the country.

A spokesman for the Board of Immigration Appeals in Short Falls, Va., said a
letter was sent by first-class mail to the family's lawyer advising him of the
decision. The lawyer, Robert Shannon of Manhattan, said he never received the
letter, which would mean the family members were never informed they had lost
their appeal and the clock was ticking. When the 30 days were up and the family
was still here, they became illegal aliens and were forceably deported.

Jose Del Castillo, a lawyer in Hartford whom the Saks' were in the process of
hiring when they were deported, said: "Someone has made a terrible mistake here.
While it may be unclear who that was and how it happened, one thing is clear:
This was not the fault of the family."

What makes the situation even worse for the family is that because, in the eyes
of the immigration serivce, they had ignored the deportation order, under
federal law they are now forbidden to enter the United States for 10 years.

The family's new lawyer, Anthony Collins of Hartford, said he wouldappeal for a
"humanitarian parole" that would allow the family to return.

Relatives said the family's request for political asylum was based on Mr. Sak's
status as a firefighter in his home country, which in Poland, they said, is
considered a military job that confined him and his family to a limited and even
harsh life. The uncertain and ever-changing political conditions of the
country's former Communist regime were also cited by the family in their bid for
political asylum, family members said.

They said what made made the deportation surprising was that Anna Sak was just a
year or two away from obtaining a green card that she applied for 10 years ago,
which would have allowed the family to remain in the United States while seeking
citizenship.

Michael Gilhooly, director of public affairs for the Eastern Region of the
I.N.S. that covers 25 states including New England, said his agency deported the
family only after all legal avenues for their continued stay had been exhausted.
He said the agency acted only after being contacted by the State Department of
Motor Vehicles when Arek Sak applied for a driver's license and records showed
he and his family were in the country illegally.

"When the Sak family entered the United States in July 1991 they had valid,
nonimmigrant visitor visas," Mr. Gilhooly said. "They were admitted for six
months. But the family remained past January 1992, which means they overstayed
their visas, a violation of immigration law."

Mr. Gilhooly said the family applied for various forms of relief from
deportation and was allowed to remain in the country many years to pursue their
case "with the clear understanding that the outcome of litigation might be
deportation."

Then, in August after the Board of Immigration Appeals denied the final appeal,
the family was ordered to leave, Mr. Gilhooly said. The court gave the family 30
days to "wrap up their affairs and they were supposed to depart by Sept. 28."

"But the family was in the United States beyond the removal date. We had an
order of removal from the courts and we enforced it," he said.

Mr. Gilhooly said deporting both illegal and criminal aliens is not unusual,
with a total of 147,000 having been deported during the fiscal year that ended
Sept. 30. He said the Saks' were considered illegal aliens when they were
deported.

Mayor Marc Garofalo of Derby, who has known the Saks for seven years because
they attend the same church, St. Michael Roman Catholic Church in Derby, is
helping with the petition and contacting legislators.

"They came to church every week as a family, and they seemed to be very close
and have a lot of faith," he said. "These people were not living in the shadows,
they owned a house on a state highway, working hard and doing everything like a
typical American family.".

The contrast to their typically American home on Derby Avenue in Orange and
their current living conditions is striking, the family said.

"Now, we sleep in hallways and on the floor in the kitchen," said Anna Sak.

Arek Sak said he hasn't returned to school in Poland.

"All I do is try to draw," he said. "I cannot even consider the possibility of
not returning to America. Staying here would be impossible."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ms. Sak; her son, Arek, 19; husband, Dariusz, and, below,
Joanne, 17, the Sak's daughter, came to the United States 12 years ago and
settled in a home, left, in Orange. They sought permanent residency, but after
losing several appeals, were deported last month. (Thomas McDonald for The New
York Times); Helena Butanowicz, a sister of Anna Sak, and Jerzy Blaszczyk, a
brother-in-law, look at some of the belongings Ms. Sak and her family left
behind. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 13, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IMMIGRATION;
Complying, Anxiously, With an I.N.S. Roundup

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 716 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 12


Shoaib Muhammad, a 29-year-old computer engineer from Karachi, Pakistan, who has
worked here for two years, says he is as far from being a terrorist as one could
imagine.

But he is still afraid of being arrested when he shows up Monday at the federal
building downtown to register with the Immigration and Naturalization Service
under a program designed to root out terrorists. The program focuses on men from
20 countries, including Iraq, Iran, North Korea, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan and
Libya. Since it began last month, more than 500 men have been detained, most for
visa violations. On Friday alone, about 125 were arrested nationwide, an
immigration official said today.

"I've never been involved in a crime, but I'm still worried," said Mr. Muhammad,
who holds a visa to work in the United States. "If they want me to go back, I
will, but it's the way they're doing it, with handcuffs and detentions, that
bothers me."

A statement released Friday by the immigration service said that its officers
"have made every effort to minimize any delay or inconvenience to those
individuals required to register."

The roundup is aimed solely at men over the age of 16 who entered the United
States as students, as tourists or on business before Oct. 1, 2002. But the
program ran into trouble from the outset, primarily here in Los Angeles, when
scores of immigrants, many of them from Iran and with relatives who are
long-term residents of California, were arrested as they registered in December.
Many had pending applications for visa extensions or were in the process of
applying for legal residency. Officials have since acknowledged that they were
overwhelmed by the number of people they had to process through fingerprinting
and criminal background checks, and that some of the detentions may have been
unwarranted. Most of the men have been released, with visa violators being
required to appear before immigration judges soon.

In a letter to Attorney General John Ashcroft on Friday, Dr. William F. Schulz
of Amnesty International U.S.A. wrote that singling out individuals on the basis
of national origin "is tantamount to racial discrimination."

Officials from the Department of Justice and the immigration service, which it
oversees, did not return calls seeking comment.

"The I.N.S. is trying to make it look like we're doing something about terrorism
by targeting an entire community because they happen to be from a Muslim
country," said Sarah Eltantani, a spokeswoman for the Muslim Public Affairs
Council.

In a waiting room at the federal building here on Friday, a group of Armenian
men from Lebanon wondered whether they would be going home for dinner or
spending the night in jail. One, who would give only his first name, Joseph,
said he had spent 18 years in the United States and had been turned down three
times for a green card.

"I'm a good citizen -- I work hard and I pay my taxes," said Joseph, 41, who
said he was a restaurant manager in nearby Glendale. "America has a right to
protect herself, but the way she's doing it is all wrong. She has to go after
the bad guys; she knows who they are."

Another Lebanese man, who said his name was Panos, emerged from his interview
with an immigration official after posting a $1,500 bond and scheduling a court
date for overstaying his visa. "It's the law, and they're doing it right," he
said. "I'm going to tell the judge I love this country and I need to stay here."

An immigration lawyer, John W. Craig III, said one of his clients, a 25-year-old
Tunisian, had been arrested for overstaying his visa and "questioned intensely
for four hours" before being released on Thursday after 36 hours in jail.

In New York City, several blocks from where the World Trade Center once stood,
some of the immigrants who lined up Friday to register at the I.N.S. office in
Federal Plaza admitted having expired visas and said they feared being arrested
or even deported.

Elyes ben Taleb, 28, said he had arrived from Tunisia five years ago "for the
American dream."

"I love this country, but on a day like today, I don't feel like a part of
America anymore," said Mr. ben Taleb, who lives in the Bronx and works as a
marketing consultant. "Do they really think terrorists are going to stand on
line for hours in the cold and turn themselves in?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 15, 2003 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: ARRESTS;
British Officer Slain, 4 Hurt As Terror Suspects Are Seized

BYLINE:   By WARREN HOGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 623 words

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 14


A police officer was stabbed to death and four others were wounded tonight
during the arrests of three terror suspects in Manchester that the police said
were linked to the discovery last week of the deadly poison ricin in London.

The 40-year-old officer, whose name was withheld, was attacked by one of the
suspects wielding a kitchen knife, who temporarily broke free after the police
had held the men in custody for 30 minutes.

Of the four wounded officers, three were stabbed and the other suffered a broken
ankle. None of the injuries were life-threatening.

In London, Prime Minister Tony Blair said he was shocked and saddened. "It is an
appalling tragedy and wicked in the extreme," he said.

The news came after word from the English Channel city of Bournemouth that six
people arrested Monday by antiterrorism police and initially thought to be
connected to the London ricin case were found instead to have been involved in a
terrorism hoax and possible immigration infractions. The police would not
elaborate on the incident, but terror charges were withdrawn against all six,
and police blamed reports of their possible involvement with ricin to newspaper
speculation.

Tonight, Alan Green, the Greater Manchester assistant chief constable, said the
stabbing victim died at North Manchester General Hospital after having received
emergency treatment at the scene.

Mr. Green said he was unable to give details about the operation tonight but
could confirm that the raid was tied to arrests by Scotland Yard in recent days
in London. A spokeswoman for the Manchester police said the three men arrested
tonight were North Africans.

In the London case, the lethal toxin ricin was discovered in an apartment in a
neighborhood where four Algerian immigrants accused of plotting a terror attack
had lived. The neighborhood, known as Wood Green, has been infiltrated in recent
years by radicalized Algerians who left their country in the 1990's after
military officers took power from an elected Islamic government.

The four Algerians, Samir Feddag, 26, his brother Mouloud Feddag, 18, Mustapha
Taleb, 33, and a 17-year-old who was not identified for legal reasons were
formally charged with chemical weapons and terror offenses on Monday in Bow
Street Magistrates Court in London and must appear Friday.

Ricin (pronounced RICE-in) is a deadly poison made from castor beans, with no
antidote. While it cannot kill masses of people, it is a feared terror substance
because it can be made easily. Its discovery here has created nervousness among
Londoners who fear attacks on subways or in shopping malls.

Michael Todd, the Greater Manchester chief constable, said a number of officers
from the tactical aid unit were wearing protective equipment this afternoon when
they entered the premises and were being supported by special branch
intelligence officers.

"During the course of the search, one of the suspects managed to get free, get a
knife and stab a number of our officers," he said. "One, a 40-year-old special
branch officer, was sadly killed."

Mr. Todd said the operation was "intelligence-led," aimed at capturing a
particular person. "We had no suspicion that we were likely to find ricin on the
premises -- we were looking for an individual."

He said forensic tests were being carried out on the scene, "but there is
nothing to indicate anything of that nature is there."

The terrorism act under which the Manchester police acted came into force two
years ago, and provided police and security officials with wider powers to deal
with the threat of terror. The act defined terrorism as the use of menace
intended to influence the government or intimidate the public in furtherance of
a political, religious or ideological cause.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2003



CORRECTION: An article yesterday about the killing of a British police officer
during the arrest of suspected terrorists from North Africa referred incorrectly
to events in 1992 that prompted some Algerians to settle in Britain. Military
officers canceled elections that were expected to bring a militant Islamic party
to power. They did not take power from an elected Islamic government.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 16, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Brooklyn: Perjury Conviction In Asylum Case

BYLINE:  By William Glaberson (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 106 words


A woman from Ghana in West Africa whose plea for political asylum drew national
attention after she said she feared genital mutilation, was convicted yesterday
in Brooklyn federal court of perjury, passport fraud and making false statements
to immigration officials.

Federal prosecutors said the woman, Regina Norman Danson, 32, "made a mockery of
the immigration system and real victims of genital mutilation" by inventing her
story so she could remain in this country. Dawn M. Cardi, a lawyer for Ms.
Danson, said that Ms. Danson would appeal. She faces prison and deportation at a
sentencing on March 26.   William Glaberson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Technology Briefing Internet: F.T.C. Inquiry On Fake Driving Permits

BYLINE:  NYT

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 158 words


The Federal Trade Commission said yesterday that it was seeking to shut six
Internet operations that sold fraudulent international driving permits, many to
immigrants who were looking for legitimate identification documents. The
commission filed complaints in federal courts in California, Maryland,
Massachusetts, New York and Washington, D.C. Officials said the operations used
unsolicited e-mail messages and Web sites to promote the permits.

An international driving permit translates a government-issued driver's license
into different languages; it is not a substitute for an American license, or any
other identification document issued in the United States. J. Howard Beales,
director of consumer protection at the commission, said the fraudulent permits
misled people with limited English proficiency. He said the permits were sold on
the Internet for as much as $375, while the AAA and the American Automobile
Touring Alliance charge $10.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 17, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Leaving Death Row Is Blessing and Curse For Prisoner in Illinois

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 957 words

DATELINE: PONTIAC, Ill., Jan. 16


It is not that Danny Edwards wants to die, per se, it is just that he does not
want to leave death row.

The guards here know about his heart condition and make sure Mr. Edwards
exercises daily, regardless of weather. His 8-by-13-foot cell with the metal bed
frame is not much, but at least it is his alone. The condemned share a bond,
"like one big family," Mr. Edwards said -- a family about to be broken up. And
without a looming execution, he could lose his free appellate lawyer, who he
still hopes will win him a new trial.

"I'm not thrilled about spending the rest of my life in prison -- who would be?"
Mr. Edwards, 46, said this morning in an interview at Pontiac Correctional
Center, where officials have begun dismantling death row.

Mr. Edwards is one of about 20 condemned inmates who did not file petitions for
clemency but nonetheless were included when Gov. George Ryan issued a blanket
commutation of the state's death sentences. Mr. Edwards had even written to Mr.
Ryan, urging him not to spare his life.

"Set me free or leave me be, that's what I told him to do," he said today.

In announcing the clemency order on Saturday, Mr. Ryan, a Republican in the
waning hours of his term, drew special attention to Mr. Edwards because he was
convicted of the 1987 kidnapping and murder of Stephen Small, a newspaper
publisher who lived next door to the Ryan family in Kankakee and baby-sat for
the Ryan children.

Mr. Ryan said that the killing of Mr. Small gave him some sense of the pain that
murder victims' families suffer and that his commutation of Mr. Edwards's
sentence left his wife, Lura Lynn, "angry and disappointed." He also said Mr.
Edwards's opposition to clemency was evidence that life in prison was an
unappealing alternative.

Ed Smith, the state's attorney in Kankakee County, has not decided whether to
follow the lead of prosecutors in Cook County, who filed a long-shot lawsuit
this week seeking to block the commutations of prisoners who did not seek
clemency. "If a person does not ask for relief, then it should not come," Mr.
Smith said.

Mr. Small's widow, Nancy Small, who saw Mr. Ryan at a wedding last summer, said
she felt a particular sense of betrayal, calling his speech "a real slap in the
face."

"Here he used our family, it was very convenient for him that he personally knew
one of the victims and had watched our suffering," said Ms. Small, who now lives
in South Carolina. "I would like George to personally hand-write a letter to
each of my three boys telling them why he decided to have their father's
murderer taken off death row."

In his sweeping moves on Friday and Saturday, Mr. Ryan granted outright pardons
to four men because he believed they were innocent, cut the sentences of three
others to 40 years, and created 164 new lifers.

Reaction seemed divided along stark lines: jubilation for death-row inmates and
anguish for victims' relatives. But the case of Mr. Edwards hovers in a gray
area.

Reaction on the row here at Pontiac, 100 miles southwest of Chicago, was some
clapping and a "Thank God" or two, Mr. Edwards said. In the days since, the
formerly condemned have fretted over being split up and sent to Menard
Correctional Center in the far south of the state, adjusting to bunk beds and to
sharing a cell.

"I'm not looking forward to group showers," Mr. Edwards said. "The down side is
I'm going to have a cellie. The good part is I'm going to have a little job."

Already, Mr. Edwards and the others are being treated differently, allowed to
meet visitors without their hands cuffed to their waists. Mr. Edwards celebrated
the new freedom throughout an hourlong conversation, waving his arms, slapping
the table, pointing fingers.

"I can't wait until my mom comes and I can give her a big hug," he said. "I
haven't hugged my mom in 15 years."

Mr. Edwards, who tried to slit his wrist with a torn soda can on one of his
first nights in jail, after watching news reports of Mr. Small's funeral, admits
building the wooden box in which Mr. Small was buried alive. But he says that he
was coerced into helping in the kidnapping and that there was no intent to kill
Mr. Small -- a tube attached to the box apparently did not provide enough air.

"I'd give my life today for him to have his back," said Mr. Edwards, a former
electrician and cocaine dealer. "It wasn't supposed to happen."

Mr. Edwards said that when his first granddaughter was born on Wednesday, he
wondered whether Mr. Small's three children -- he easily rattled off their
names, Ramsey, Christopher, Barrett -- had started on the next generation. In
fact, Ramsey Small, who was 14 when his father died, had twins two weeks ago.

"I don't have a father -- I missed out on a lot of things," Ramsey Small said.

"This was such a blow," he said of the governor's action. "It was like going
through it all over again.

"I believe in the death penalty, and I think it should be executed. Why didn't
he just keep those sentences as is? It's really just very confusing, and
frustrating."

Mr. Edwards said that he, too, "used to feel an eye for an eye, tooth for a
tooth" and that "I don't know how I would feel today if somebody raped and
murdered my daughter." He said he was not afraid of the electric chair,
recalling how in death-row Bible studies he used to imagine the Kingdom of God
as similar to Earth, with plenty of golf and tennis, but no sin and violence.

His best friend on the row, Walter Stewart, always disagreed, saying there would
be no such silly games. Seven years ago Mr. Stewart, who was convicted of
killing two men in a holdup, was executed. As he passed by on the way to the
death chamber, Mr. Edwards recalled, Mr. Stewart told him, 'When you get there,
we'll play a game of golf.' "

That will have to wait.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Danny Edwards, whose death sentence was part of a blanket
commutation, waited yesterday to return to his prison cell in Pontiac, Ill.; A
vacant cell on the Pontiac Correctional Center's death row, which is being
emptied after Gov. George Ryan's order on Saturday. (Photographs by Peter
Thompson for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Freud Meets Buddha: Therapy for Immigrants;
Disorders From the East Emerge Here

BYLINE:  By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words


The patients may suffer from classic mental ailments: depression, anxiety,
schizophrenia.

But as they make their way to a sprawling mental hospital in northeast Queens,
they also complain of problems that the average New York City psychologist has
rarely encountered: pa-feng, a phobic fear of wind and cold that occurs in
Chinese patients; hwa-byung, a suppressed anger syndrome suffered by Koreans;
and Latah, a Malaysian and Indonesian psychosis that leads to uncontrollable
mimicking of other people.

They are the kinds of illnesses that psychologists refer to as culture-bound
syndromes. Experts say that while they are fairly common among New York's
exploding immigrant population, they are often undiagnosed, or are confused with
other conditions. But a growing number of mental health professionals are now
focusing on patients' ethnicity and country of origin to treat their mental
illnesses.

Westerners have their own culture-bound syndromes. Anorexia nervosa, for
example, most often afflicts young women exposed to movie and television images
of an idealized skinny female body.

But immigrants tend to have poor access to mental health care and until
recently, there were few mental health services like the new program in Queens,
the Asian-American Family Clinic at Zucker Hillside Hospital. Dr. Yong Cho and
Dr. Quixia Mei Lan opened the clinic four months ago, and they are already
treating 40 patients who came from across Asia.

Dr. Cho, 34, an immigrant who was a chaplain in the South Korean Army, blends
Zen Buddhism, Confucianism and psychotherapy in treating his patients, he said,
tailoring the therapy to each patient's culture and needs. In his office, there
is plenty of Korean green tea, used for meditation.

The treatment of culturally specific disorders may wind up being similar to the
treatment of classic depression and other more general illnesses, with the use
of psychotropic drugs or talk therapy or both. But for Asians it may mix
different approaches: meditation and medication, Freud and Buddha. The main
difference, cultural psychologists say, lies with the diagnosis: one person's
depression is another's suppressed anger syndrome.

Dr. Cho's partner, Dr. Lan, a Chinese immigrant in her 40's, is a psychiatrist
who also specializes in culture-bound syndromes. Dr. Lan said that her patients
were accustomed to using herbs or to thinking of their problems as purely
physical ones -- they often complain only of a backache or a stomachache and not
of depression -- so it can take several sessions to persuade even severely
depressed patients to try drugs. But both doctors said that more immigrants are
becoming comfortable with the use of antidepressants like Prozac and other
medications.

The stigma and shame attached to mental illness, which can be much fiercer in
Eastern cultures than in the West, can keep immigrants from seeking treatment,
according to several experts and a 2001 report by the United States surgeon
general. Many of the 800,000 Asian immigrants in New York City live in
close-knit communities, where word spreads fast.

"Asians are often very reluctant to seek help," Dr. Cho said. "They may go to a
pastor, a fortuneteller or a friend's mother, but never talk to a shrink."

Ol Y., 46, a patient of Dr. Lan's and Dr. Cho's from Hong Kong, who spoke on the
condition that only her first name and the initial of her last name be used,
suffers from bipolar disorder. She waited years to seek treatment, filled with
shame and with fear that the members of her church or her neighbors would find
out something was wrong with her.

She was treated with drugs by a Western doctor, she said, but her "trembling,"
anxiety and depression still would not go away. Her husband, who was laid off
from his job as a software consultant for Wall Street companies soon after Sept.
11, 2001 -- only adding to Mrs. Y.'s stress -- said that he felt desperate to
find her some help.

He began surfing the Internet and came upon information about the new program in
Queens. Two months ago, Dr. Lan adjusted Mrs. Y's medications. Then Mrs. Y.
began talk therapy with Dr. Cho, who draws on a mixture of approaches, including
Mrs. Y.'s deep belief in Christianity, to treat her for the disorder.

Besides her bipolar disorder, Mrs. Y., who immigrated here 20 years ago, suffers
from stress related to culture shock and often feels isolated, Dr. Cho said. In
treating her, he has focused heavily on the way her mood, her anxiety and her
fears have been affected by going to New York and her lack of support in the
tiny network of immigrants she knows.

While Mrs. Y. was in treatment, she said, her mother, who refused to seek help
for her own mental illness while living in Hong Kong, committed suicide.

"I can stand on my own feet," Mrs. Y said. "I don't have to lie down all the
time. I'm getting better and better."

Asian patients have physical differences that also make their treatment
different from people of Western backgrounds. According to an article in the
September issue of The Western Journal of Medicine, "Prescribing Medication for
Asians With Mental Disorders," many Asians develop side effects to medications
at lower doses compared with other ethnic groups. The precise reasons are
unclear, the article said, but it is believed that biology -- such as how the
liver absorbs and the body processes medication -- plays a large role.

Dr. Henry Chung, clinical associate professor of psychiatry at the New York
University School of Medicine and a co-author of the study, said that Asians
tended to absorb medication more slowly. "The standard rule of thumb," he said,
"is to give Asians half the dosage."

Depression has been shown to be a condition that can be aggravated or brought on
by adjustment to life in a new country. The stress of learning English or the
inability to speak it can also lead to anxiety or can intensify a mental
illness, according to Dr. Cho, particularly for immigrants who were highly
educated in their native countries but find themselves barely able to
communicate here.

Even among immigrants who do seek treatment, many are often afraid or reluctant
to spell out what is bothering them. Dr. Cho said that he often had to coax his
patients into talking and that traditional approaches to therapy -- like asking,
"So what's going on?" and then just listening -- did not work. He might give
advice to break the ice, he said, or even teach his patients about terms like
depression and anxiety.

In fact, some languages, like Korean, have no specific word for depression,
according to Dr. Cho. There is a term for "a little bit irritable," and someone
feeling depressed may talk about having a "down heart," while tapping a fist
against the chest.

But such culture-bound syndromes, which are listed in the standard reference of
psychiatry, the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, are not
limited to Asians.

A common disorder among Hispanics, for example, is a condition called "ataque de
nervios," in which so much pent-up anxiety and anger come out that a sufferer
will fall on the floor and may experience uncontrollable shouting, attacks of
crying and heat in the chest, said Dr. Julia Ramos-Grenier, a psychologist and
professor at the University of Hartford.

Dr. Ramos-Grenier said that although some disorders linked to different
countries with different names may seem similar, many are distinct. Ultimately,
she said, cultural experiences are essential to understanding mental illness.

"Understanding the culture of the individual," she said, "has a lot to do with
making an accurate diagnosis."

Making it even harder to diagnose some diseases is that, in some cultures, anger
and anxiety can become bottled up because talking about mental distress is not
acceptable, Dr. Cho said.

The Korean suppressed anger syndrome, hwa-byung, is particularly common among
middle-aged Korean women, who may have felt afraid to express their feelings for
much of their lives, Dr. Cho said. The symptoms include constriction in the
chest, palpitations, anxiety and poor concentration.

Dr. Cho said the syndrome is common among Korean immigrants, and knowing about
it is crucial.

"Otherwise," he said, "you might not be able to understand them. You might be
able to understand their symptoms, but you might not understand what's really
happening behind their symptoms."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. Quixia Mei Lan, right, and Dr. Yong Cho, second from right,
meeting with a patient at the Asian-American Family Clinic at Zucker Hillside
Hospital in Queens. A brochure for the clinic, which provides mental health
services, is printed in English, Korean and Chinese. (Ruby Washington/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 18, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: SUSPECTS;
Militants Use British Policy On Asylum To Plot Terror

BYLINE:  By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 876 words

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, England, Jan. 17


To his neighbors up and down the street, the 23-year-old Algerian who rented a
second-floor apartment at No. 4 Crumpsall Lane, posing as a student, was just
another anonymous tenant of the hotels and short-stay rentals that dot the area.

The authorities knew a little more about him. He had first come to their
attention in 1998, when he applied for asylum on the grounds that he faced
persecution at home for his religious views and political affiliations. As is
common in Britain's understaffed and overwhelmed immigration system, his case
was not heard right away: it took three years for his application to be
rejected. He filed an appeal to the decision, but then slipped out of sight.

But in the last two weeks, since traces of the deadly toxin ricin were found in
a nondescript apartment in a north London neighborhood, antiterrorism
investigators have been focusing on the shadowy networks of Algerians believed
to be potential terrorists in Britain. Their investigation -- and the arrest of
seven suspects of North African origin in connection with the ricin discovery in
London -- led them to the 23-year-old Algerian's apartment in Manchester, and to
the operation that resulted in the stabbing death on Tuesday of Detective
Constable Stephen Oake.

The 23-year-old, whose name has not been released by the authorities, is just
one of 17 people, all described as North Africans, to be arrested or detained in
the last two weeks. Most of them are Algerians.

Most have been detained under various provisions of Britain's sweeping
antiterrorism laws, although some have been charged with other crimes,
including, in the case of Kamel Bourgass, 27, the murder of Mr. Oake and the
attempted murder of four other police officers wounded in the raid.

Although the authorities are not saying exactly how many, it seems that at least
half a dozen of those arrested or detained came to Britain from Algeria in the
guise of asylum seekers. Some of those detained have been released and turned
over to the immigration authorities for a review of their status.

In the last decade, since the outbreak of a civil war in Algeria between the
military-backed government and groups of Islamic militants, more than 9,000
Algerians have sought asylum in Britain. About 1,000 have had their applications
granted. In 2001, 60 Algerian applicants received asylum; 75 were allowed to
stay under a provision known as exceptional leave to remain; and 2,530 had their
applications rejected.

But Britain has had a hard time removing asylum seekers whose applications fail,
in part because, until recently, applicants were allowed to participate in a
long and cumbersome appeals process that almost encouraged them to abscond while
their cases were still dragging through the system. Still, in 2001, the
government sent 125 failed applicants back to Algeria.

Given the volatility of life in their country, it is no wonder that Algerians
left the country. "Partly it is a reflection of the fact that because of the
intense bloodshed that convulsed Algeria in the past decade, there were a
tremendous number of people eager to escape," said Bruce Hoffman, a specialist
in terrorism and director of the Washington office of the RAND Corporation.
"Many were legitimate asylum seekers; others were just trying to relocate away
from what had become one of the most violent corners of the world."

But many were not merely asylum seekers. In the late 1990's, Britain developed a
reputation for being an easy place in which to blend into the shadows, to escape
official scrutiny while planning terrorist operations. Algerians in Britain were
said to be instrumental, for instance, in planning a series of bombings
conducted by the Armed Islamic Group, which is waging a battle against the
Algerian government, in France in the summer and fall of 1995.

The bombings, which culminated in an explosion at a Paris subway station that
killed 8 people and wounded 150, were claimed by the Armed Islamic Group as
punishment for French support of the Algerian government.

Since that year, France has been demanding the extradition of Rachid Ramda, a
33-year-old Algerian imigrant, who is accused of helping to finance the
terrorist group. Britain approved the extradition, but the ruling was reversed
by a British court, and Mr. Ramda is still being detained in London.

There is speculation here that the Algerians suspects in the ricin
investigation, which so far has turned up only traces of the toxin, as well as
the equipment for making it, are linked to the Salafist Group of Combat and
Preaching, which broke away from the Armed Islamic Group and has closer ties to
Al Qaeda. But American officials in London said today that there was still no
evidence of a direct link between the suspects and Al Qaeda.

In London, Mohammed Sekkoum, chairman of the Algerian Refugee Council, said that
it was widely known among Algerians in London that there were terrorists among
them.

"If you are in the Algerian community, you know these things," he told The Daily
Telegraph. "I know the names of many of these people. These people were killers
in Algeria and now they are killers here." Mr. Sekkoum said he had informed the
British immigration service, but was told that "it was nothing to do with me."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lesley Oake, the widow of Detective Constable Stephen Oake,
leaves flowers outside the house in which he died during a raid in Manchester.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 22, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanics Now Largest Minority, Census Shows

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 21


Hispanics have edged past blacks as the nation's largest minority group, new
figures released today by the Census Bureau showed.

The Hispanic population in the United States is now roughly 37 million, while
blacks number about 36.2 million.

The figures, the first detailed findings on race and ethnicity since the 2000
Census was released two years ago, confirm what demographers and many advocacy
groups have anticipated for several years. The new numbers are based on new
population estimates from July 1, 2001, that were compared with the census
figures from April 1, 2000. The figures showed that the Latino population grew
by 4.7 percent, while the black population grew by just 1.5 percent. The white,
non-Hispanic population, estimated at roughly 196 million, grew by 0.3 percent
during the same period.

"It is a turning point in the nation's history, a symbolic benchmark of some
significance," said Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, a
Washington-based research and policy analysis organization. "If you consider how
much of this nation's history is wrapped up in the interplay between black and
white, this serves as an official announcement that we as Americans cannot think
of race in that way any more."

The explosive growth in the Hispanic population results from higher birth rates
and from the huge wave of immigration that has taken place in the last decade.
The Census Bureau counts all people residing in the United States, whether they
are legal immigrants or not.

In addition to their symbolic significance, the figures carry important
implications for the allocation of resources. In recent years blacks and
Hispanics have often felt in opposition in seeking financing and political
representation, and the new numbers could bring fresh tensions.

Some Latino advocacy organizations, perhaps anticipating possible difficulties,
are already playing down the significance of the shift. "Rather than comparing
groups we should be looking at the status of communities," said Sonia Perez,
deputy vice president for research at the National Council of La Raza, a
national Latino organization. "When you look at Latino and African-American
communities, the elements of the agendas are not that different. We share many
of the same issues, interests and values."

In many ways, the new figures are an indication of the growing multiculturalism
in American society and the change in the way the Census Bureau allows people to
classify themselves. The 2000 census, for the first time, allowed respondents to
choose more than one race in identifying themselves. In addition, Hispanics, a
cultural and ethnic classification, can be of any race.

While the general African-American population is slightly smaller than the
general Hispanic population, the number of Americans who declared themselves as
black "in combination with one or more other races" is now 37.7 million,
slightly higher than overall figure for Latinos.

"The statistics are in the eyes of their beholders," said William H. Frey, a
demographer at the University of Michigan. "What these numbers reveal is a bit
of a conundrum. But advocacy groups, policy people and politicians will pick the
interpretation of them that works best for them at any given time."

Much of the social and political impact of the population surge may not be
immediately apparent. Roughly one quarter of Latinos living in the United States
are noncitizens. And while there has been a significant migration of Hispanics
to cities in the South, Midwest, and central plains, more than 50 percent of the
Latino population remains concentrated in Texas, California and New York.

The speed of population shift, though anticipated, has taken some demographers
by surprise. "It came sooner than we thought," said Martha Farnsworth Riche,
director of the Census Bureau during the Clinton administration.

Among the factors that contributed to the faster than anticipated growth, said
Ms. Farnsworth Riche, was greater cooperation between the Census Bureau and
Latino organizations, which helped undocumented migrants feel safer cooperating
with census takers.

The slim numerical gap between blacks and Hispanics is expected to widen
significantly in the next decade. Deteriorating economic conditions across Latin
America, say many demographers, will continue to spur immigration. The birth
rate among Latinos is also higher than among blacks.

Researchers expect the spurt to level off in a generation or so, as economic
stability leads to lower fertility rates and Hispanics intermarry with other
groups with some choosing to identify as black, some as white, and some as a
combination of one or more ethnic groups or races.

"It will only get more broad and more complicated," said Mr. Suro. "It's a
reminder that we will increasingly, as Americans, need to find new ways of
categorizing people and talking about their differences."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS -- Largest Minority Group: Hispanics"The Census
Bureau estimates that as of last July, Hispanics became largest minority group,
growing 4.7 percent from April 2000 to 37 The bureau estimated that the number
of blacks grew 1.5 percent, to 36.2 million. Total populationPOPULATION, IN
MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 284.8APRIL 2000: 281.4PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 1.2%PERCENTAGE OF
THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 100.0% Hispanic (of any race)POPULATION, IN
MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 37.0APRIL 2000: 35.3PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 4.7PERCENTAGE OF THE
POPULATION, JULY 2001: 13.0 One racePOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*:
280.7APRIL 2000: 277.5PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 1.2PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY
2001: 98.6 WhitePOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 230.3APRIL 2000:
228.1PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 1.0PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 80.9
Non-Hispanic whitePOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 196.2APRIL 2000:
195.6PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 0.3PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 68.9 Black
or African-AmericanPOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 36.2APRIL 2000:
35.7PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 1.5PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 12.7 American
Indian or Alaska NativePOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 2.7APRIL 2000:
2.7PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 2.3PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 1.0
AsianPOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 11.0APRIL 2000: 10.6PERCENTAGE CHANGE:
3.7PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 3.9 Native Hawaiian/Pacific
IslanderPOPULATION, IN MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 0.5APRIL 2000: 0.5PERCENTAGE CHANGE:
3.0PERCENTAGE OF THE POPULATION, JULY 2001: 0.2 Two or more racesPOPULATION, IN
MILLIONSJULY 2001*: 4.1APRIL 2000: 3.9PERCENTAGE CHANGE: 4.6PERCENTAGE OF THE
POPULATION, JULY 2001: 1.4 *Estimated. (Source: Census Bureau)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           January 23, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New Jersey: Newark: Detainees End Hunger Strike

BYLINE:  By Susan Sachs (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 91 words


Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said yesterday that six
detainees had ended the hunger strike they began on Jan. 14 to protest
conditions at the Passaic County Jail.

An I.N.S. spokesman, Kerry Gill, said no promises had been made to the
immigrants, although their demands were being considered. The men, including at
least two who were arrested after Sept. 11, are being held on various
immigration charges and have asked for visits with their families without the
jail's glass wall separating them.   Susan Sachs (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 24, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: AIRPORT SECURITY;
Holes Found in I.N.S. Checks at Airports

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 23


The security system used to usher tens of millions of foreign travelers through
American airports each year suffers from "significant and ongoing deficiencies"
that threaten public safety, despite repeated warnings that predate the Sept. 11
attacks, according to a Justice Department investigation released today.

Investigators in the inspector general's office at the department found that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service had failed to institute needed security
reforms largely because it had not made airport safety a top priority and had
bowed to pressure from the airline industry.

The immigration agency is in charge of foreign travelers at 159 airports.

By ignoring risks and making "little progress" to correct problems like faulty
alarms and understaffing, the report found, "the I.N.S. continued to undermine
its ability to influence airlines and airport authorities to meet standards."

"As a result," it said, "airports continue to be vulnerable to illegal entry,
escapes, injuries and smuggling of aliens and contraband into the United
States."

Airport security and immigration operations have been two focal points in
efforts to secure borders from terrorists since the attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon. But the Justice Department report portrays immigration
officials as largely impervious to the need to shore up airport security
operations.

All travelers from foreign countries are required to pass through airport
checkpoints, as inspectors determine their eligibility to enter. When
eligibility is unclear, inspectors send travelers to secondary areas for
interviews, examinations of travel documents and, if needed, detentions for
further investigation.

More than 43 million non-American travelers passed immigration checks at
airports in the 2001 fiscal year, along with more than 30 million citizens,
officials said.

Officials at the immigration agency, which will move in March from the Justice
Department to the new Homeland Security Department, said they agreed with
virtually all the findings in the sharply critical report and promised to
improve operations. In a formal response, they called the report an "invaluable
tool."

Justice Department officials noted that the agency had failed to heed warnings
in the past. In 1999, the inspector general found safety problems at the
checkpoints of all 42 airports that it reviewed. Beginning last May,
investigators followed up on that review by examining 12 airports used by many
non-American travelers and found that not much had changed. Investigators found
"repeat deficiencies" at each airport, as well as shortcomings in complying with
new requirements.

Because of security sensitivities, the public version of the report omits the
names of the 12 airports, as well as many specific shortcomings. But it cites
general findings and anecdotal evidence in finding that the airport operations
remain vulnerable.

Checkpoints were understaffed, monitoring and surveillance activities sometimes
were not conducted, alarm and emergency systems often did not work properly, and
some detained suspects were allowed to disappear because of poor security in
holding areas, the report found.

Justice Department officials said the shortcomings could be used by terrorists
and nonterrorists alike to enter the United States illegally.
"We're concerned that anyone could exploit these facilities," the inspector
general, Glenn A. Fine, said in an interview. "It's clear that the I.N.S. did
not take all the action it could have and should have and did not respond
adequately to our past concerns. We hope that will change."

The report said immigration officials had not notified airport authorities, the
airlines or their own staff about the shortcomings cited in 1999.

"I.N.S. officials believed that the power of the airline lobby kept the I.N.S.
from using its authority to enforce available sanctions, that security was not
the I.N.S.'s responsibility, and that the failure of facilities to meet
standards was unrelated to serious consequences," the report said.

The report drew an angry response from the Air Transport Association of America,
the airline trade group. A spokesman for the group, Mike Wascom, said he found
it remarkable that immigration officials would blame the airlines.

"I.N.S.'s own mismanagement is what kept these essential improvements from being
realized," Mr. Wascom said, "not the airlines, not the airports and not the
Congress."

The airlines, he added, have long complained about many of the problems in the
report.

"The technology is there, and has been for years, for the I.N.S. to enhance its
screening procedures and inspection facilities," he said.

A senior immigration official said authorities have struggled to institute
reforms since the mid-90's, often running into problems with the airlines,
airport authorities and local politicians. The agency has even threatened to
close terminals because standards were not being met, the official said.
"We have striven pretty doggedly to work for these improvements at airports,"
the official said. "It's a difficult process. It turns into a bit of a wrestling
match. There are protracted negotiations."
The agency is hoping new inspection standards given to the airlines in August
will help address many safety problems, the official said.

"We could have worked more quickly," he acknowledged. "I wish we had."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 26, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latinos Continue The Immigrant Experience

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 118 words


Reading "South Fork Latinos Flex Political Muscle" Jan. 5 made me think of my
grandparents, who came to this country at the turn of the 20th century. Their
stories of their journey, the wait and trials they went through to become
American citizens always amazed me.

This is a country of laws and I admire the people who came here legally .
Illegal immigrants' disregard for that standard hurts every person waiting to
become legal immigrants.

The Hispanic activist's observation that "the dearth of affordable housing
forces may Latinos to live in cramped, squalid quarters" led me to wonder what
their life was like before coming to this country. I'm sure it was much worse.

FLORENCE D. TRIPP
Floral Park

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 28, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old Mexico for a New Generation;
A Tiny Academy Teaches Children the Joys of Mariachi

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words


The academy is in a cluttered, battered basement that also houses a karate
school. But on this weeknight, surrounded by exercise equipment and drawings of
martial arts fighters, six boys and four girls sat in a semicircle strumming
guitars to the waltzy beat of a mariachi song.

The group belongs to the first class of the Mariachi Academy of New York, a
one-year pilot project in East Harlem with 40 students, most from the
neighborhood, known as the Puerto Rican barrio.

These English-speaking children of immigrants, some immigrants themselves, are
injecting new blood into a centuries-old musical tradition from Mexico. They are
part of the first stirrings of a mariachi culture in the land of salsa and
merengue.

Of course, they have a way to go.

Characterized by acoustic harmonies and widely known lyrics about love and
heroism usually played by a handsomely dressed, roving ensemble of men in
sombreros, the rancheras and ballads of mariachi music can make the festive sing
and the sad drink and weep. But at a music academy string class on a recent
night, the studnts just made the teacher, Ramon Ponce Jr., wince.

"I think we went a little too fast," Jasmine Galindo, 9, said apologetically
when the group of 9- to 11-year-olds broke into the first chords of "El Rey," a
mariachi standard.

Mr. Ponce, artistic director of the academy and a member of a local mariachi
group, Mariachi Real de Mexico, founded by his father in the early 1990's, said
the school was meant to foster mariachi music in a new generation, particularly
the American-born children of Mexican immigrants.

He and his father, who moved to Queens from Puebla 15 years ago, took the idea
for the school to the Center for Traditional Music and Dance in Manhattan, which
opened it last summer with a $35,000 grant from the National Endowment for the
Arts and some foundation money. The Union Settlement Association at Third Avenue
and 98th Street donated a classroom.

Most of the students came to the academy without a musical background, but that
was almost the point.

"Musically, they lean toward rap so, we don't want the Mexican music to die
among them," Mr. Ponce said of the students. "Mexican music represents us in
every corner of the world."

A mariachi school is a novelty on the East Coast but hardly surprising.
Nostalgia and a rapidly growing Hispanic population, that is mostly of Mexican
descent, is causing interest in the music across the United States, mariachi
scholars say. In New York, the Mexican population leapfrogged over others in the
1990's to become the city's third-largest Latino group, after Puerto Ricans and
Dominicans, the 2000 census showed.

In California, New Mexico and Texas, mariachi music is a staple at public
events. But in New York there are so few mariachi musicians that some groups are
trios rather than the typical 12 members. Two years ago, about a dozen mariachi
groups in New York and New Jersey came together to lend one another members to
handle a growing number of gigs at restaurants, public events and private
parties, said Mr. Ponce, who makes his living as a mariachi musician.

There are other signs that the music is gaining a foothold in the city, from the
hugely popular concerts of mariachi stars like Vicente Fernandez at Madison
Square Garden to the radio station WLXE-AM (1380) in New York, which switched
from sports and news to Mexican music last year.

Now the Mariachi Academy of New York, where students through age15 take free
instrument and voice lessons and learn to read music, holds the promise of
producing homegrown musicians. Although the academy is a modest effort,
historians in Mexico and the United States say, such schools are critical to the
health of mariachi music, which is shunned by most radio stations and record
companies as too folkloric.

In the United States, mariachi groups count on better technology to produce
their sound and have tweaked the form to give it a decidedly American feel. Some
groups sing in both Spanish and English, sometimes even singing "New York, New
York" and "Are You Lonesome Tonight?" They often include non-Mexicans, like the
Puerto Ricans, Dominicans, Colombians and Venezuelans who populate the mariachi
groups in New York.

The bands here have more female performers than those in Mexico, where machismo
is still very much part of the music's image. At the New York academy, about
two-thirds of the students are girls.

"In Mexico there's still a stigma that mariachis are drunks, womanizers,
uneducated," said Jonathan Clark, a mariachi musician who ran a mariachi
workshop for many years at San Jose State University in California.

For a daughter to tell her parents she wants to be a mariachi, he said, "it's
almost like wanting to be a prostitute."

But, Mr. Clark added, "The same family might move to the United States and
approve of it because they see it as a way for their children not to lose their
Mexican identity."

That is the case for most of the mothers and grandmothers who stood in the hall
or sat in an adjacent room on a recent Thursday night as their children
practiced the chords of mariachi standards like "Cielito Lindo" and "El Rey" on
guitars and vihuelas, a mariachi signature string instrument.

Margarita Larios said that at first, she practically had to drag her grandson,
Rafael Guzman, 9, and her granddaughter, Margarita Guzman, 15, to the academy.
They are children of a Mexican mother and a Puerto Rican father. Margarita likes
hip-hop, and Rafael likes Barney.

Now they are willing students of the guitar and the violin, Ms. Larios said, and
the boy, who understood Spanish but did not speak it, at least sings it now.

"I like my traditions and customs, and I want them to know the Mexican culture,"
Ms. Larios said. "They're raised here in a Puerto Rican environment and know
very little about Mexico."

It can take several years to hone the skills of budding mariachis, and the
academy's first class has yet to separate into actual mariachi groups. But the
whole class has already given a few public performances, to standing ovations
from parents, and word of mouth has led to a waiting list of more than 100
adults and children for places in the school, said Cathy Ragland, the project's
director at the Center for Traditional Music and Dance.

Adult classes are to begin next month, she said, but a main goal of the
nonprofit school is to get grants and private donations so it can continue
beyond the pilot project, which will end in July. Mr. Ponce said efforts were
also under way to stage an annual mariachi festival in New York.

Meanwhile, the Mexican influence is being felt in young New Yorkers like Jasmine
and Ashley Galindo, Mexican-American sisters who grew up listening to their
father's mariachi records. They said they were considering careers as police
officers, doctors or mariachi singers.

But first, they have to do some explaining.

"My friends say, 'What in the world is that?' " Ashley, 7, said of the reaction
when she mentions her mariachi lessons. "I say, 'That's Spanish music.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ramon Ponce Jr., right, helped Juan Garcia, 9, and Benjamin
Lara, 11, tune guitars at the Mariachi Academy of New York. Top, Ashley Galindo,
7, with a vihuela, a signature mariachi instrument. (Photographs by Ozier
Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Jose Luis Sanchez, 10, practicing on the
vihuela at a mariachi class. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 31, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Shredder Ended Work Backlog, U.S. Says

BYLINE:  By JOHN M. BRODER

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 789 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 30


Tens of thousands of pieces of mail come into the huge Immigration and
Naturalization Service data processing center in Laguna Niguel, Calif., every
day, and as at so many government agencies, it tends to pile up. One manager
there had a system to get rid of the vexing backlog, federal officials say. This
week the manager was charged with illegally shredding as many as 90,000
documents.

Among the destroyed papers, federal officials charged, were American and foreign
passports, applications for asylum, birth certificates and other documents
supporting applications for citizenship, visas and work permits.

The manager, Dawn Randall, 24, was indicted late Wednesday by a federal grand
jury, along with a supervisor working under her, Leonel Salazar, 34. They are
accused of ordering low-level workers to destroy thousands of documents from
last February to April to reduce a growing backlog of unprocessed paperwork.

Ms. Randall was the file room manager at the I.N.S. center. Mr. Salazar was her
file room supervisor. The Laguna Niguel center handles paperwork for residents
of California, Arizona, Nevada, Hawaii and Guam and is one of four immigration
service centers around the country operated by private contractors under I.N.S.
supervision.

According to the federal indictment, Ms. Randall ordered her subordinates last
January to count the number of unprocessed papers in the filing center. They
reported that about 90,000 documents were waiting to be handled. In February,
the government says, she ordered at least five night-shift workers to begin
shredding many boxes of papers.

By the end of March, the backlog had been cut to zero, and Ms. Randall ordered
her subordinates to continue destroying incoming paper to keep current, the
government says.

"There was no I.N.S. policy that required this, nor was she ordered to do it by
any superior, as far as we know," said Greg Staples, the assistant United States
attorney handling the case. "The only motive we can think of is just the obvious
one of a manager trying to get rid of a nettlesome problem."

Mr. Staples said one frustrating thing about the case was that most of the
evidence had been carted out with the trash and that it was impossible to
identify all of the victims.

"It's like a murder case without a body," he said. "We will never really know
what was destroyed."

The shredding was discovered in April by an agency supervisor who witnessed what
appeared to be unauthorized destruction of documents. The I.N.S. office of
internal audit, the Justice Department's inspector general and the United States
attorney's office for Southern California conducted the investigation that led
to this week's indictments.

Ms. Randall and Mr. Salazar were each charged with conspiracy and five counts of
willfully destroying documents filed with the I.N.S. The conspiracy charge
carries a maximum penalty of five years in federal prison. Each of the other
counts can bring three years in prison.

Their subordinates were not charged because they were low-level workers acting
on instructions, the government said.

After the shredding was discovered, the immigration service opened a hotline for
people who suspected their paperwork had been destroyed. Agency officials helped
petitioners reconstruct their files and gave applicants the benefit of the doubt
if they could not replace the documents they had submitted, said Lori Haley, a
spokeswoman for the I.N.S.'s western regional office.

She said the agency made an effort last year to publicize the problem and was
confident that it had rebuilt most of the lost files. She also said that
additional staff members had been hired at the center and that oversight had
been tightened.

"Monitoring of the activities of the support services contractor has been
enhanced at the service center," Ms. Haley said. "All materials to be shredded
or destroyed are reviewed first by I.N.S. personnel to make sure that no
unauthorized materials are destroyed."

Ms. Randall's lawyer, Joseph G. Cavallo, said today that he had not read the
charges and would not comment. He said, however, that Ms. Randall would plead
not guilty at her arraignment on Monday. Mr. Salazar's lawyer, Tom Brown, did
not return calls seeking comment.

The four document processing centers are operated under a $325 million contract
with JHM Research and Development of Maryland, which in turn subcontracts the
operations to two other companies. John Macklin, president of JHM, was
unavailable for comment.

Mr. Staples, the federal prosecutor, said the contractors were cooperating with
the investigation and would not be charged unless more evidence against them was
developed.

"If we had found criminal liability, we would have indicted the companies," he
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            January 31, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ivory Coast's Residents Look for the Exit

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: ABIDJAN, Ivory Coast, Jan. 30


First, it was the Africans. Immigrants who could afford to return home to
neighboring Burkina Faso, Mali and Liberia packed up and left this rattled,
war-torn country. Today, it was the Europeans, mostly the French, Ivory Coast's
former colonial rulers, who crowded into the departure lounge of the newly
refurbished airport here and hunted for an exit.

They boarded for Paris or Amsterdam, if they were lucky. A great many took off
for Cotonou, Dakar, Lome, Ouagadougou -- anywhere but here. The exodus was
prompted by a recent spate of anti-French attacks. Government loyalists have
blamed France for imposing a peace accord that they said gave too much power to
rebels who plunged this country into a brutal four-month-old civil war.

The peace accord, which calls for sharing power among the elected government and
the rebels, could be short-lived, even by the standards of the continent.
Several ministers in the cabinet of President Laurent Gbagbo, as well as the
army, have denounced crucial elements of the accord -- namely, turning over the
Defense and Interior Ministries to the insurgents. The interior minister, Paul
Yao N'Dre, described the accord as "legal sorcery" intended to provoke the
population. Rebel leaders have rejected any suggestion of renegotiating the
pact. France, which brokered the talks, has pressed Mr. Gbagbo to abide by the
agreement.

Of the roughly 20,000 French citizens in this country, more than 500 left today,
a diplomat said, and many more are expected to depart this weekend. From Paris
130 gendarmes came to supplement more than 2,000 French soldiers already here.
At sundown, the Ivoirian first lady met with a clutch of French citizens at the
presidential residence. Reporters were shooed away.

The antipathy toward the French, brewing under the surface for years as a
residue of more than 100 years of colonial rule, may have been sudden and
violent, but more bizarre than the rabid Francophobia on display here has been
the intense pro-American sentiment.

Earlier this week, government loyalists here rallied in front of the United
States Embassy, very near the French Embassy, which they had tried to torch.
They waved American flags and tried to mouth the lyrics to "The Star Spangled
Banner." Angry young men surrounded an American reporter and gleefully shouted
the only words of English they knew, one of them chanting repeatedly, "Yes, very
yes."

"We are tired of the French people," said Koty Managnan. "We need a new
partnership. We want Bush involved in our case."

An official at the American Embassy said: "We did not go out to talk to them. We
did not exchange in any conversation."

The ardor for the United States, observers said, is driven by a growing
resentment against the French -- not just for what they say is an unfair
domination of the Ivoirian economy but for the treatment of Africans in France.
"People love America because they think it's easier for them to go to America,
even if it's not true," argued Francis Kpatinde, editor in chief of Jeune
Afrique, a newsweekly based in Paris.

The young mobs that ran through the city for nearly three days ransacked
prominent French businesses, the Air France office, the French Embassy, the
French Cultural Institute and several French lycees. Homes of some French
citizens were raided. Until this morning, a white face was rare on the streets
of Abidjan.

Today, the people waited for Mr. Gbagbo to clarify what the peace deal might
mean. He did not speak, though his aides suggested he would do so in the next
few days. In his silence, tension prevailed, though the streets were relatively
calm. For the first time this week, banks opened, schoolchildren marched along
the roads and the main highway was clogged with rush-hour traffic.

The airport, named after Felix Houphouet-Boigny, the country's founding
president and a man known for preserving the former colony's close links to
France, grew crowded soon after the curfew lifted at 6 a.m. Ivoirian soldiers,
rifles slung on shoulders, manned the entrance to the departure terminal, some
having their shoes shined by street children, others chasing away beggars.
Luxury cars disgorged anxious travelers, some carting dogs, some toting
children, nearly all trailed by locals hauling bags. Hustlers offered to find
taxis, change currency and, for a few local francs, provide the use of a mobile
phone.

An Indian businessman put his employees' families on a plane to Burkina Faso. An
American missionary bound for Texas carried an African drum on his shoulders.
Hundreds of Africans milled about, waiting for flights that had been canceled or
postponed since the weekend.

Jean-Pierre Vivet, 67, a French retiree who had taught at a school here for
three months, blamed the Mr. Gbagbo for inciting "the gangsters." His sympathy,
though, was mostly for the locals and not his fellow Europeans. "They can
leave," he said. "The Africans have to stay."

A wide-eyed, 24-year-old teacher from Marseille queued up in front of the Air
France ticketing office. In his hand, he had a ticket for the next day's flight
but his heart, he said, was heavy. "I know when I come back tomorrow, I will
cry," said Aurelien, 24, who had been here for six months and fallen in love.
Having watched from his apartment window as rioters waved T-shirts that read
"Xenophobe. So What?" this weekend, he was afraid, he said, to disclose his full
name.

Air France Flight 703, which flies daily between Abidjan and Paris, took off
this morning for the first time in five days: all 256 seats were sold, mostly to
French citizens, an airline spokeswoman said. This evening's return flight from
Paris was not expected to be full.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben Sahiri, a professor at the University of Ivory Coast,
stirred anti-French sentiment Wednesday in Abidjan. (Michael Kamber for The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: BRIEFLY NOTED;
IRANIAN CLERIC REBUKES BUSH

BYLINE:  By Nazila Fathi (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 74 words


Ayatollah Muhammad Yazdi, a member of Iran's conservative Guardian Council,
lashed out at statements in President Bush's State of the Union address that
said Iran was violating human rights and trying to develop weapons of mass
destruction. Ayatollah Yazdi rejected the president's claims and responded with
his own: that White House policies after the Sept. 11 terror attacks violated
the rights of Muslim immigrants.   Nazila Fathi (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 1, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Wanderer for Peace Has Run Out of Road

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1320 words

DATELINE: FLORENCE, Ariz., Jan. 29


It appears that Reza K. Baluchi made a string of serious miscalculations.

One, an adviser might say, never illegally cross the Mexican border if you are
from Iran. Two, if you do cross, don't pitch a tent in the Arizona desert.
Three, if people want to bail you out of jail, do not stop them.

The abridged version of Mr. Baluchi's fantastic tale goes something like this:
He flees Iran on a bicycle and embarks on a 46,000-mile circumnavigation of the
globe in the name of peace.

Over the next six years, he visits some of the toughest, most despotic corners
of the planet: Africa, former Soviet republics, South America, lands of famine,
war and general discontent. Yet, his charm is so winning, his intentions
seemingly so pure, that wherever he goes peasants give him food, dignitaries
give him tokens of friendship and well-wishes, and a Colombian dentist even
fixes his teeth without charge. In all, Mr. Baluchi pedals over six continents
and 54 countries.

In November, he reached the United States, his beacon of liberty, the final leg
of his peace odyssey. Once here, Mr. Baluchi, 30, was found camping in the
Arizona desert by a Border Patrol helicopter and was arrested for entering the
country without permission.

He currently resides in the Immigration and Naturalization Service's detention
facility here in Florence. He runs circles around the exercise yard, quite
certain that when the immigration judge hears his story, the judge will be
overcome by a profound sense of humanity and release Mr. Baluchi on
compassionate grounds. And when he is released, Mr. Baluchi said, he will resume
the final leg of his ride. His destination? Ground Zero, New York City.

"My religion is peace," Mr. Baluchi said in Farsi and broken English. "I no like
terrorist. I for peace. All people Iran. U.S.A. New York."

Acquainted with six languages and a master of one, he had his words interpreted
by Ghassem Ladjevardi, an Iranian industrialist and former senator of the
Iranian Congress who fled in 1979 as the Islamic revolution swept through the
country. Mr. Ladjevardi is concerned that Mr. Baluchi may not realize that he
could be deported.

"He is a simple, sensitive man," Mr. Ladjevardi said. "I don't think he
understands the severity of his situation."

What the diminutive Mr. Baluchi was doing on the American side of the border is
a matter of interpretation. Mr. Baluchi contends that he simply got lost while
riding around Mexico, where he had been waiting for three months for his visa
application to be processed.

"I see no border. No sign," he said in English. "Speak for peace and illegal. No
good."

An official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said the agency was
working on the theory that Mr. Baluchi was a scofflaw, a man too impatient to
wait his turn. In short, a border jumper. And, the official said, since the
Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, an Iranian camping in the desert raises a red flag.

So Mr. Baluchi waits in detention, running laps to keep in shape until Feb. 24,
when Immigration Judge LaMonte Freerks will consider whether to grant him asylum
or deport him to Iran.

Mr. Baluchi's lawyer said she could probably arrange for bail of as little as
$1,500, but Mr. Baluchi is not interested. Mr. Ladjevardi and Arizona's large
community of Iranian expatriates have offered to bail their countryman out of
immigration jail and give him a bed and a job while his case is considered.

"He thinks he may be freed," Mr. Ladjevardi said. "But he might find himself
back in Iran. But he cannot go back now. They know who he is."

There is little appreciation for the Iranian contributions to the United States
in this post-Sept. 11 world, Mr. Ladjevardi said. He points to the federal
government's new requirement that male visitors from Muslim or Arab countries
register with the authorities. Almost 24,000 men nationwide have checked in,
leading to nearly 1,200 detentions, according to the Justice Department.

"I like free," Mr. Baluchi said sitting in the visitors room in his prison
blues, explaining that he will not accept bail because the quicker he sees the
judge, the quicker his release. "I like to stay. I no go out."

Three things are in his favor. It is said that Judge Freerks likes to hear a
good story. Mr. Baluchi comes across as earnest to the point of tears. And he
has a book of photographs and newspaper clippings from various countries to
document his story.

"He's got this indomitable spirit," said Suzannah Maclay, Mr. Baluchi's lawyer
and a senior staff lawyer with the Florence Immigrant and Refugee Rights
Project. "He sort of doesn't believe he's detained. And if he wins, he said he
will run from California to New York."

The life of Reza Baluchi began in Rasht, in northern Iran near the Caspian Sea.
The youngest of eight children, he watched as his brother returned from the war
with Iraq a broken, brittle man. As he grew older, Mr. Baluchi drifted away from
Islam, and when he was caught drinking during Ramadan, he was publicly flogged.
Later he spent 18 months in prison for associating with
"counterrevolutionaries," he said.

Asked for proof of this, Mr. Baluchi pulled down his collar and showed a
collarbone knotted in the shape of a horseshoe. He said he was beaten by prison
guards.

When he was released, Mr. Baluchi said, he jumped on his Centurion bicycle and
set out to see the world, to tell people of his brother, that war is no good. He
was a refugee of a different sort. An adventurer, as opposed to the millions of
wretches who walk to the neighboring border to spend their lives in a tent
waiting for a handout of rice.

Mr. Baluchi is no more than 5 feet 6 inches and 150 pounds. He has small,
expressive hands, large batlike ears, an odd tuft of hair on his forehead and
calves the size of pork roasts.

Along his journey, he has been snowed upon, sluiced by slashing rains, sliced
apart by the sun, attacked by insects, nearly done in by hunger. He went weeks
without bathing and days without eating. He developed no new philosophy, he
said, just affirmed an old one. Peace is good. War is bad.

In Congo, the army robbed him. He contracted malaria in South Africa and
diarrhea in the Amazon. He was the victim of a hit-and-run accident in Mexico,
and he could not figure the workings of chopsticks in China.

He worked for a while as an auto mechanic in Portugal. Other times, when he had
no money, strangers took him in. He shows photos of himself with minor
bureaucrats in Africa and South America. One shows the Panamanian police
escorting him to the Costa Rican border as the public waves him on.

Originally, he planned to end his trip in Canada, but while standing on the
Champs-Elysees on Sept. 11, 2001, his mission became clear: ride to Ground Zero
on the first anniversary of the attacks and present to the American people the
good wishes that he had collected on his travels.

Then he got caught on Nov. 10. Immigration officials confirm that Mr. Baluchi
had applied for a visa in Monterrey, Mexico. He was found with little beyond a
tent, the binder of clippings, some personal effects and a mass-produced
bicycle. The little man with the big heart can be persuasive when he starts to
cry. "I sorry. I make mistake. I love America."

Mr. Ladjevardi translated. "He says he had no intention of coming into the
United States illegally."

As Mr. Baluchi ran his laps this afternoon, the yard filled with men with tales
of woe: the Latvian caught with 350 pounds of marijuana, the Iraqi Kurd who did
not want to go back, Jamaicans who were tired of listening to Spanish, Mexicans
who said they spoke better English than the Jamaicans.

"I wish they could all be like him," a guard said. "He's a good man, does what
he's told and never complains."

Mr. Baluchi said he had tasted the glory, and had a mission to fulfill.

But for some, glory is like sea water. The more one drinks, the thirstier one
grows.

"I go Ground Zero," he said. "I have something for people. Love."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mr. Baluchi, 30, in a photograph he took of himself as he
bicycled through six continents and 54 countries since leaving Iran six years
ago.; Reza K. Baluchi ran laps on Tuesday in the federal detention center in
Florence, Ariz. It is his daily ritual. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Claim Harassment at Bakery

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 1077 words

DATELINE: NORTH HAVEN, Conn.


Shortly after immigrating from Mexico, the four Mota sisters landed jobs at a
large bakery here that paid well above minimum wage, convincing them that they
were on their quest for the American dream.

But their hopes soon turned sour, according to sexual harassment lawsuits that
three of the sisters filed on Jan. 17. They accused half a dozen managers of
egregious harassment, ranging from grabbing and groping them to threatening to
fire them unless they agreed to have sex. One sister accused a manager of trying
to drag her into an office to force himself on her; another said a manager
phoned her dozens of times at home, saying he wanted to have sex.

"They said this is the place to make dreams come true," said Maria-Teresa
Alexander, the oldest sister, "but nobody tells you they can also kill those
dreams."

The accusations of harassment at the 200-employee bakery, Chef Solutions,
reflect a common plight of immigrant workers, who are especially vulnerable to
abuse because immigration status, poverty and language problems often discourage
them from speaking up.

The sisters alleged that harassment occurred from the mid-1990's to late 2001.
Their charges created a storm at the bakery, ultimately resulting in a
unionization drive, an F.B.I. inquiry, allegations of a death threat, and the
dismissal of several managers. The sisters' supporters have put the bakery's
parent company, Lufthansa, on the defensive, distributing leaflets at Lufthansa
ticket counters and planning a trip to Germany to pressure the company.

"This is the worst case I've ever seen in terms of the constant sexual
harassment, the demeaning conditions the women were subjected to, and the way it
was tolerated by the highest officials at the plant," said Thomas Meiklejohn, a
lawyer for several bakery workers. "And when the employees finally had the nerve
to stand up, they faced a totally unrestrained campaign of threats and
retaliation."

The National Labor Relations Board has accused Chef Solutions, the Lufthansa
subsidiary that bought the bakery in March 2000, with repeatedly violating
federal labor laws. The labor board has charged it with 20 illegal acts,
including firing two workers for supporting a union and threatening to close the
bakery and have the workers deported if the employees unionized.

In the latest twist, the F.B.I. is investigating charges that a representative
of management brandished a gun while warning one worker to drop his charges
against Chef Solutions.

Trish Beck, the company's senior vice president for human resources, neither
admitted nor denied the allegations, but said Chef Solutions was working to put
the charges behind it. She emphasized that the officials accused of wrongdoing
no longer worked for the bakery, which supplies breads and rolls to supermarkets
and Subway sandwich shops.

"We are cooperating with the agencies that are investigating these allegations,"
Ms. Beck said. "We're focusing on a new day and how we build the type of work
environment that is what we stand for."

The company's lawyers took a firmer line, denying that any sexual harassment or
illegal anti-union actions had occurred. Lufthansa officials denied any
responsibility, saying that Chef Solutions is run independently of the airline.

The Mota sisters immigrated from Mexico City a dozen years ago. In Connecticut,
they stuck together, taking jobs at a bakery that seemed welcoming until the
management changed in the early 90's.

Maria-Teresa Alexander, 41, the oldest sister, is separated from her American
husband. The second sister, Eva McIntire, 40, is nervous, talkative and
divorced. Maria-Elena Pena Mota, 37, is timid, withdrawn and soft-spoken, while
the youngest, Reyna Pena Mota, 33, is the only one who has not claimed
harassment.

The three older sisters said many other women at the bakery faced serious
harassment, but did not have the courage to go public. "It was so unfair," Ms.
McIntire said. "They wanted to force you to have sex. They were scaring us all
the time."

The three sisters detailed their allegations in the federal lawsuit, in
affidavits and in interviews.

Maria-Elena Mota said her supervisor started asking her out at the same time he
began warning her that she was on a list of workers to be fired. She said she
refused his advances, but he persisted. She said she submitted after hemade it
clear that she would be fired if she did not have sex with him.

Ms. Alexander gave a similar account, saying the production manager threatened
to have her family members fired unless she agreed to sex. She said he phoned
her repeatedly at home and whispered lewd comments to her at work. Ms.
Alexander, who had broken off a relationship with that manager years before,
said she, too, submitted, fearing that her sisters would lose their jobs unless
she complied.

Ms. McIntire said several supervisors called her a slut. She said one supervisor
tried to drag her to the warehouse's office and that another manager often
touched her breasts and buttocks and called her at home asking for sex.

When she complained to the top manager she said that he told her, "You just shut
up."

There were allegations from other workers. Seema Srivastava reached a
confidential settlement after accusing managers of commenting on her breasts,
putting pornography in her locker, trying to kiss her and, when she resisted,
hurting her by throwing frozen dough at her. Jackeline Montalvo said a top
manager grabbed her from behind and ripped her blouse when she pulled away.

Douglas Varga, a lawyer for two former managers, denied the sisters'
allegations, asserting that they were made to help the unionization drive.

The sisters said they stayed at the bakery because the pay -- averaging $12 an
hour -- was good for unskilled immigrants.

The N.L.R.B. said that after 20 workers began campaigning to join the United
Automobile Workers, managers "threatened employees with unspecified reprisals to
family members," and threatened to close the plant and fire workers if they
voted to unionize. The labor board also said the top manager "physically
assaulted employees because they supported the union." A labor board judge will
begin a trial on Feb. 10.

On Nov. 29, 2001, the bakery's workers voted 101 to 69 against unionizing. Ms.
Beck asserted that there was no intimidation, saying, "My interpretation is the
employees believed in the direction the company was headed." Union supporters
say the U.A.W. lost because management intimidated the workers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A protest in front of the Lufthansa offices in Manhattan last
month. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 2, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: STUDENTS;
Immigration Service Extends Electronic Tracking System for Foreign Students

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 583 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1


Backlogged in its efforts to give colleges approval to use a new electronic
tracking system for foreign students, the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has announced a two-week extension of the deadline for institutions to begin
using the system.

The $36 million Student and Exchange Visitor System, or Sevis, was to become the
sole mechanism for schools to transmit information about the identities,
addresses and academic standing of nearly one million foreign students and
scholars on their campuses by midnight Thursday.

While the immigration service has given approval to 3,400 high schools,
colleges, universities and trade schools to use Sevis, more than 2,000 are still
awaiting permission, said Christopher Bentley, an agency spokesman. Without it,
the institutions may not accept new foreign students.

Moreover, as the immigration service has allowed more and more institutions to
log on, complaints that the system appeared slow and overloaded have grown.

At Old Dominion University in Norfolk, Va., Scott E. King, the director for
international student and scholar services, said employees could enter data only
in the mornings, before institutions on the West Coast had logged on. In the
afternoons, the system slowed to a crawl, Mr. King said.

At the University of Minnesota, which only this week received approval to log
on, officials have been unable to enter information on foreign students
altogether, said Kay Thomas, director of the office for international students.
"The system really is jammed with users trying to get on," Ms. Thomas said.
"It's just unbelievably slow."

Mr. Bentley said the grace period "is to allow schools to use the system before
it actually goes real Feb. 15." On Wednesday night, the system "became somewhat
sluggish," and schools "were having trouble making their interface work with the
Sevis system." He said the two weeks would allow schools more time to test the
system and work with the Sevis help desk.

The system was conceived after the first World Trade Center bombing, in 1993,
and became a priority after the attacks of Sept. 11. It is an effort to close
the loopholes in the student visa system. The system links the immigration
service to campuses across the country, which can instantly transmit information
about the identities, addresses and academic standing of foreign students.

An estimated 900 of the institutions awaiting approval to use the system are
reported to have applied for certification before Nov. 15. The immigration
service had guaranteed schools that applied by then a decision on using Sevis by
Jan. 30.

One of those institutions awaiting approval is the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill. "Clearly, if this continues much longer it's going to be a real
nightmare," said Robert J. Locke, the director of the university's International
Center. "It's already starting to cause some problems."

Virtually until the final hour, the immigration service had maintained that it
would meet its own deadlines for approving schools that had applied before Nov.
15.

After initially announcing that it was extending the deadline for institutions
that had already been approved to enter their data, the immigration service late
Friday afternoon advised the Association of International Educators that it was
also extending the deadlines for itself to approve applications.

"It's an incredible relief for these schools," said Kathy Bellows, vice
president of public affairs at The Association for International Educators.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration to Israel Reaches 13-Year Low

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 161 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 6


Immigration to Israel in 2002 was the lowest in 13 years, the Central Bureau of
Statistics said today.

Immigration officials explaining the drop said the potential pool of Jewish
immigrants from the former Soviet Union is dwindling, although security concerns
also appear to be keeping some people from settling in Israel.

Scores of immigrants have been among the hundreds of Israelis killed in the last
28 months of Israeli-Palestinian fighting.

The statistics bureau said 33,000 people immigrated to Israel in 2002, or about
10,000 fewer than in 2001.

In the past decade, the vast majority of newcomers to Israel were Jews from the
former Soviet republics. That was also true in 2002, but the influx decreased
from the previous year. At the same time, migration from Argentina tripled,
fueled by the severe economic troubles.

The number of French Jews arriving in Israel doubled from the year before, and
migration from the United States increased by 23 percent.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 7, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

FILM REVIEW;
War-Weary Immigrants Facing Another War

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN HOLDEN

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg.
20

LENGTH: 833 words


The prolific Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai has never lacked nerve. "Kedma," the
newest film by this acerbic social critic, is as inflammatory in its way as
"Kadosh," his harsh portrayal of an ultra-Orthdox sect in Jerusalem and its
treatment of women. But "Kedma," which opens today in Manhattan, has larger
issues on its mind than marital customs. In imagining the events of early May
1948, when unauthorized groups of Jewish settlers were arriving from Europe on
the shores of Palestine, it questions the very foundations of the Israeli state.

The furthest thing from a glorious celebration of the birth of a nation, the
movie is a pointed rebuke to a tub-thumping nationalistic epic like "Exodus." As
it follows a group of war-weary concentration-camp survivors who arrive on
Palestine's shores just days before the official declaration of the state of
Israel, it preaches a bitter message that might be summed up in four words: what
did you expect?

The film begins as a documentary-style re-enactment of the arrival of the Kedma
(the name means Toward the Orient), a battered old cargo ship crammed with
European Jewish immigrants. Before it ends, the movie has turned into a shrill
forum in which Yussuf (Yussef Abu Warda), an angry Palestinian farmer, and
Janusz (Andrei Kashkar), a Polish Jewish immigrant, deliver successive rants
that anticipate the coming half-century of Arab-Israeli strife.

But for all its provocation, "Kedma" is an often dull, incoherent film, and its
characters remain frustratingly sketchy. Compounding the movie's overall
shapelessness is its refusal to fill in any historical background. It simply
drops you onto the cargo ship in 1948.

The story is told in uneasy fits and starts. Not a word is spoken in an extended
opening sequence during which all you hear is the thrumming of the ship's engine
as the camera wanders from steerage (where it observes a couple in a desultory
sex act) to survey the upper deck of a vessel crammed with exhausted, anxious
immigrants. Eventually we meet Janusz (Andrei Kashkar), who survived the Lodz
ghetto, and Rosa (Helena Yaralova), a young former inmate of a Siberian prison
camp to whom he extends fatherly comfort.

The somber opening sequence establishes a mood of gloomy disorientation that
settles like a woozy pall over the film, whose dialogue feels semi-improvised by
actors who seem slightly dazed. Arriving on the shore, the immigrants face the
grim realization that they have left behind one war only to be drafted
immediately into another. Their first skirmish is with British troops (speaking
in ludicrous American accents) patrolling the dunes, who fire their guns in the
air and make only a token effort to turn them back.

As the newcomers are hurriedly escorted into the hills by members of the
Palmach, the Jewish defense force that anticipated their arrival, they are
broken into two groups. One group encounters a band of Palestinian refugees
leaving the country, and a war of words breaks out.

It isn't long before they're engaging in actual combat. After a crash course in
weaponry, the immigrants launch an attack on an Arab hilltop stronghold. Many of
the immigrants are killed. And Menahem (Menachem Lang), a high-spirited young
cantor who has arrived with his new wife, Hanka (Veronica Nicole), is seriously
wounded.

When the soldiers appropriate a Palestinian farmer's donkey to transport Menahem
back to camp, their expedient ignites the first of the movie's prophetic rants.
"We'll remain here in spite of you, like a wall," the angry farmer shouts.
"We'll write poems. Our demonstrations will fill the streets. We'll fill the
jails with our pride. Our outraged children will follow us, generation after
generation."

But the movie's last and bitterest word belongs to Janusz. The new arrival, who
minutes earlier declared himself happy at last, cracks under the realization
that more war lies ahead. Lurching about the camp, he delivers a tearful,
self-hating tirade against Jewish history, which he says consists of
"oppression, slander, persecution and martyrdom." He ultimately dismisses that
Jewish history and belief in a Messiah as "madness."

While it's an open question to what degree his words echo the filmmaker's
concerns about the Zionist project, they end this dour little film on a note of
howling despair.

KEDMA

Directed by Amos Gitai; written (in Hebrew, with English subtitles) by Mr. Gitai
and Marie-Jose Sanselme, with Marc Weitzmann, Mordechai Goldhecht, Haim Hazaz
and Taufik Zayad; director of photography, Yorgos Arvanitis; edited by Kobi
Netanel; music by David Darling and Manfred Eicher; set decoration, Eitan Levi;
produced by Mr. Gitai and Laurent Truchot; released by Kino International. At
the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 100
minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Andrei Kashkar (Janusz), Helena Yaralova (Rosa), Yussef Abu Warda
(Yussuf), Moni Moshonov (Klibanov), Juliano Merr (Mussa), Menachem Lang
(Menahem) and Veronica Nicole (Hanka).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 8, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Northwest: Washington: No Questions On Immigration Status

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 41 words


Mayor Greg Nickels of Seattle signed an ordinance that forbids the police and
other city workers from asking people about their immigration status. The City
Council approved the measure so residents would not be reluctant to seek city
services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 12, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: IDENTITY DOCUMENTS;
Report Suggests Use of Facial and Fingerprint Scanning on Foreigners

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 578 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 11


Government scientists are recommending a combination of facial recognition and
fingerprint scanning technologies as the federal standard for identity documents
to be issued to foreigners starting next year.

The standards, which were Congressionally mandated as part of the U.S.A. Patriot
Act and a border security act, would be used in all documents issued to
foreigners by the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, including green cards, student visas and border crossing cards.

The scientists' report, which has been submitted to Congress, is the first step
in instituting body-recognition technology, known as biometrics, as a
governmental tool on a wide basis.

Biometrics has been identified as a necessary means of improving the tracking of
foreigners and the reduction of document fraud. Pending the results of the
study, the immigration service will install biometric technologies, like
fingerprint scanners and facial recognition software, at all 300 border entry
points within the next few years.

The technologies will be used to deny entry to foreign nationals who have a
criminal record or who appear on government watch lists.

Last week, the immigration service completed a pilot program that used
fingerprint recognition and digital photography at six ports of entry in the
United States. The machines in the pilot program are able to scan the 15 million
Mexican border crossing cards and green cards that have already been issued by
the State Department and the immigration service.

The new technologies will also play a substantial law enforcement role, since
the federal formats could be made compatible with law enforcement standards for
fingerprint and mug shots, the report found.

The study, conducted by the National Institute for Standards and Technology, is
the most extensive examination of biometric testing to date. It used databases
of 120,000 facial photographs and 600,000 fingerprints collected by the State
Department, the immigration service and law enforcement agencies. As databases
grow, the ability to make accurate matches often declines.

The scientists said they had been impressed with the results. "Facial
recognition is extremely good, much better than we expected for verification,"
said Dr. Martin Herman, chief of the information access division at the
institute.

Commercial facial recognition technology had about a 90 percent accuracy rate of
"one to one" verification -- that is, confirming that the person being scanned
is the same one who was issued the document. It had a 1 percent false positive
rate. But the study found that when the photographs were of lower quality --
taken outdoors, for example, -- the technology's accuracy rate could fall to as
little as 47 percent.

Facial recognition is not as good as fingerprint recognition in "one to many"
searches -- that is, trying to match a single face against a huge database of
faces. In experiments with 10,000 faces, the first identification was a match
only about 77 percent of the time.

While its accuracy rate was above 90 percent, fingerprint recognition had its
problems as well, especially with individuals whose fingertips had worn down,
like farm workers, housecleaners and the elderly.

Even combining both technologies will not absolutely secure the nation's
borders, Dr. Herman said.

"Biometrics is just part of the solution, it's not the full solution," he said.
"You still need the whole infrastructure of people who are trained."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 14, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Brooklyn: Charges Involving False Documents

BYLINE:  By William Glaberson (NYT) (Compiled by Marc Santora)

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 108 words


Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn filed charges yesterday against a Pakistani-born
Queens man who, they said, took payments from four Pakistanis and helped them
get fraudulent immigration documents that permitted them to travel freely
between the United States and Pakistan.

The prosecutors said the man, Mohammad Yaqoob Bhatti, took payments of as much
as $27,000 and helped the four men get real Pakistani passports issued in false
names. The charges also said that Mr. Bhatti helped the four get real
Immigration and Naturalization Service stamps permitting entry into this
country. Mr. Bhatti has pleaded not guilty.   William Glaberson (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Canada: Immigration Accusations

BYLINE:  By Clifford Krauss (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 75 words


The government urged the United States to examine the case of a Canadian who
accused American officials of mutilating her passport at O'Hare International
Airport in Chicago and putting her on a plane to India. Berna Cruz, a native of
India, said that Immigration and Naturalization Service officials claimed she
was using a fake passport and that they threatened to put her in jail without
the benefit of consular assistance.   Clifford Krauss (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: FOREIGN STUDENTS;
Electronic Tracking System Monitors Foreign Students

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 805 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16


Mandated after terrorists first bombed the World Trade Center a decade ago and
financed after they destroyed it, a vast new electronic tracking system became
the central element on Saturday in the government's effort to keep tabs on
nearly a million foreign students and scholars in this country.

Through the system, the Student and Exchange Visitor Information System, or
Sevis, schools, colleges and universities will send the federal government the
names, addresses, courses and majors of foreign students, as well as information
on any disciplinary actions against them.

Institutions that the government has not yet certified to log on to the system
may no longer enroll foreign students.

"This is part of a national strategy for the national security of the United
States -- not the end-all and be-all, but a part of that," said Christopher
Bentley, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Created after the Sept. 11 attacks brought new scrutiny to foreign students and
a series of blunders exposed an immigration agency in disarray, the system is as
much an effort to reassure a skittish public as it is to catch warning signs.
One of the Sept. 11 hijackers entered the United States on a student visa, but
never turned up for classes. The agency also issued student visas to two of the
hijackers six months after they died ramming planes into the trade center.

The tracking system signals a new era for university officials and for students,
particularly those from Muslim nations.

For directors of international programs, it means a daunting new role as
government watchdogs. They worry that mistakes in advising foreign students or
entering data, which might never have been discovered under the old paper-based
system, could have drastic consequences for students.

Given Sevis's instant nature, "there's no room to correct the record for
errors," said Robert J. Locke of the University of North Carolina. "That's our
biggest fear in the implementation of this, that students and scholars may
unwittingly fall between the cracks and become illegal."

So far, the immigration agency has approved 3,900 institutions to use Sevis, but
1,748 more are still waiting for approval.

In addition to Sevis, I.N.S. offices are undertaking a separate registration,
annually fingerprinting, photographing and interviewing men from 24 mostly
Muslim countries.

Before Sept. 11, said Victor Johnson, an associate executive director at the
Association of International Educators, international education was seen as a
bridge to future leaders across the globe.

The attacks "changed us into a country where there's fear about these people
coming in," Mr. Johnson said. "While greater vigilance is certainly needed, this
broad net is catching all kinds of people who are no danger whatsoever."

In Congress, however, scrutiny of the student visa system prompted tough new
measures. Faced with reports that thousands of schools approved to accept
foreign students did not actually exist, lawmakers ordered I.N.S. officials to
visit each one and review its record-keeping before approving it for Sevis.

Larry Bell, director of international students and scholars at the University of
Colorado, got a first-hand look at this new world, after local immigration
agents detained a half-dozen Iranian students in Colorado during special
registration. One of those students, Yashar Zendehdel, had fallen below the
minimum course load for a full-time student when he switched majors and dropped
a course. The law allows foreign students to do that with university approval,
but Mr. Bell said local immigration officials appeared unfamiliar with the law,
and threatened to deport Mr. Zendehdel.

"It's had a fairly chilling effect on students," Mr. Bell said.

Far from home, they take care to follow the rules, he said. "Then they hear of
students who did everything right and still get the book thrown at them," he
said.

Jorge Martinez, a Department of Justice spokesman, rejected the accusations of
some students and higher education officials that the special registration
amounted to racial profiling of a sort.

"The criteria has absolutely nothing to do with race, religion or ethnicity,"
Mr. Martinez said. "It is totally based on national security considerations,"
tied to intelligence and other reports of where terrorist groups are active.
"Everyone who was detained was here illegally."

Mr. Martinez would not comment on the specifics of Mr. Zendehdel's case or any
other, but countered that "federal law supersedes decisions made by
universities."

Mr. Zendehdel said that, for him, American policy boiled down to his 40 hours
with immigration agents he saw as intent on forcing him out of the country.
While he once urged his brother, sister and friends to study in the United
States, he said, he now advises them to go elsewhere.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 17, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Noriko Flynn, 79, Advocate For Unions and Civil Rights

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL T. KAUFMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 622 words


Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn, a writer and civil rights worker who managed to
transcend the struggle between management and labor in her personal and
professional life, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Pescadero, Calif. She was 79.

Her first marriage, to Harry Bridges, the fiery Marxist leader of the West Coast
longshoremen's union, required a change in legislation. After his death more
than three decades later, she married Ed Flynn, president of a Pacific shippers
association, who had long skirmished with Mr. Bridges across bargaining tables
and picket lines.

For half a century, Ms. Flynn worked for union rights, fair treatment of
immigrants and racial and sexual equality but was best known for her contrasting
marriages.

Her first wedding, planned as an elopement, was initially thwarted by a Nevada
law forbidding marriage between whites and Asians. She was the American-born
daughter of Japanese immigrants, and Mr. Bridges was an immigrant from
Australia. Friends said Ms. Flynn had a wicked sense of humor. She married Mr.
Flynn, the shipping boss, on May Day, the international socialist holiday.

Ms. Flynn grew up on rented land near Los Angeles, where her parents grew fruit
and vegetables. Beginning in 1942, when the government ordered the internment of
Japanese-Americans on the West Coast, the family spent three years in a desert
camp in Arizona. After the war, she moved to the San Francisco area, where for
12 years she was a secretary for Charles Garry, a lawyer whose clients included
leading political dissidents and radicals. Mr. Garry introduced her to Mr.
Bridges.

As Ms. Flynn described that first meeting to Robert Cherny, a history professor
at San Francisco State University who is working on a biography of Mr. Bridges,
her future husband was quite drunk. "Where have you been?" he mumbled. She
replied, "You mean, as in all your life?"

A relationship ensued and in December 1958, the couple drove to Reno for what
they hoped would be a quiet and private wedding.

However, when Mr. Bridges, 58, and Ms. Sawada, 35, asked for a marriage license,
the clerk explained that an 1846 law prohibited marriages between whites and
Asians. Mr. Bridges protested, saying that his bride was an American, born in
the United States, while he was the foreigner.

News accounts quoted the clerk as saying, "It's not a matter of where you were
born. It's the blood. It's against the law here."

Mr. Bridges quickly took his case to the national press. Within four days
lawyers for the couple succeeded in having the law struck down. The two obtained
their license and were married in Reno.

For the next 32 years, until Mr. Bridges died in 1990, they were one of San
Francisco's most prominent couples. She resumed the studies interrupted by her
internment and wrote articles about her childhood for several national
magazines. She was also at her husband's side in the 1970's when he stepped up
his union's battle with the shippers for guarantees of job security.

In that bitter struggle, Mr. Bridges's major adversary was Ed Flynn, president
of the Pacific Maritime Association. In 1971 a strike by Mr. Bridges's union
shut down all 56 Pacific ports. But the two men liked and respected each other
and understood each other's positions, Mr. Cherny said. He said they would
battle in negotiations and then go out for dinner with their wives.

After they both retired, they continued to see each other. And after Harry
Bridges's death, his widow kept in touch with his old opponent, who had become a
widower. They married in 1994.

In addition to her husband, Ms. Flynn is survived by a daughter, Katherine
Bridges Wiggins of Bandon, Ore., and two stepchildren, Robert Bridges of
Fremont, Calif., and Marie Shell of San Francisco.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn with Harry Bridges, her first
husband. (Associated Press, 1958)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          February 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arab-American Writers, Uneasy in Two Worlds;
Immigrant Authors Feel Added Burdens Since 9/11

BYLINE:  By DINITIA SMITH

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1773 words


One of the hottest young hip-hop poets these days is Suheir Hammad, 29, who was
born in a Palestinian refugee camp in Amman, Jordan, and reared in Sunset Park,
Brooklyn. Six days a week Ms. Hammad stands onstage at the Longacre Theater in
"Russell Simmons Def Poetry Jam on Broadway," chanting her heart out:

"Don't seduce yourself with my

otherness my hair wasn't put

on top of my head to entice you

into some mysterious black voodoo

the beat of my lashes

against each other ain't some

dark desert beat it's just

a blink.

"Get over it," Ms. Hammad cries onstage, tossing her dark, curly hair. Her skin
is olive, and despite the hip-hop setting, she is modestly dressed in a
long-sleeved blouse and a long skirt, showing respect for her Muslim background.
Ms. Hammad is one of the most visible of an increasingly visible group of
Arab-American writers who have emerged as a result of the ethnic identity
movements of the past few decades. They feel a special urgency now in the wake
of the terrorist attacks, the continuing conflicts between Israelis and
Palestinians, the possibility of war with Iraq and what they see as the
widespread labeling of Arab-Americans as terrorists.

Like all immigrant groups, Arab-Americans have a sense of doubleness, feeling
torn between their parents' traditions and their new culture. In the black-white
division of American racial politics, their added burden historically has been
the perception of them as black or, at the very least, as occupying an
indeterminate place in the country's racial mix.

"There is a real sense among Arab-American writers of a need for balance, with
9/11 and the demonization of people in that part of the world," said one of the
best-known, the poet Naomi Shihab Nye, who, like Ms. Hammad, is
Palestinian-American. "All the bad headlines are just very sad fragments of the
true story. We feel a larger need than we did 20 years ago to create positive
cultural stories, forces and linkages."

Ms. Hammad came to the attention of Russell Simmons and Stan Lathan, the
creators of "Def Poetry Jam on Broadway," through a poem she circulated after
the Sept. 11 attacks. A cry of anguish, it includes these lines: "Please god,
let it be a nightmare, wake me now./please god, after the second plane, please,
don't let it be/anyone/who looks like my brothers."

Arab-Americans are a relatively small minority in the United States -- 1.2
million according to the last census -- though some believe the number is closer
to 2 million, since many second- and third-generation Arab-Americans do not
necessarily identify themselves as such.

The first wave of immigrants arrived at the turn of the 20th century. Most were
Lebanese who came partly in search of arable land and work, partly to escape
sectarian turmoil. Later immigrants were driven out of their homelands by famine
and the destruction of World War I.

Many settled in Boston and on Washington Street in Lower Manhattan. Others
migrated to the area around Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn. Later they fanned out
across the country, and today there are communities in Detroit, Los Angeles and
Chicago.

The Arab-American literary tradition dates to the turn of the last century, to
the mahjar poets who came from what was then known as greater Syria, which
included Lebanon. Poetry is the fundamental Arab literary form, dating back to
the quasida, or ode, the pre-Islamic oral poetry of monorhymes, each line ending
in the same sound.

The poems were committed to memory and recited by nomadic tribes. A major theme
was the lament for the desert encampment that had been abandoned or left behind,
a recurring theme even today, as these writers long for a homeland they may have
been forced to leave.

Among Arabs, "poetry is a force of inspiration and celebration, not something
that is hidden away in the academic world," said Gregory Orfalea, a
Syrian-Lebanese poet and critic who edited "Grape Leaves: A Century of
Arab-American Poetry" (Interlink, 2000) with the Palestinian-American poet
Sharif Elmusa. "It is a sign of some achievement to have a poet in the family."

One of the first works about the Arab-American immigrant experience was a 1911
novel, "The Book of Khalid," by Ameen Rihani. The best known of the mahjars was
the poet Kahlil Gibran, who was born in 1883 in Bsharri, in the Lebanese
mountains, and settled in Boston. His mystical poem "The Prophet" remains one of
the best selling books of all time for its publisher, Alfred A. Knopf.

In 1920 Gibran founded the Pen League with the other mahjars to revitalize Arab
poetry, helping to transform it from its rigid monorhymes and to include free
verse and prose poetry. Today Arab-American writers are as varied as
Arab-Americans themselves. The organization RAWI, the Radius of Arab-American
Writers, has 150 members from about 22 nations. Historically, Arab-American
writers have been mostly Christian, but Muslims are increasingly making their
voices heard.

Like writers from other immigrant groups -- Asians, Hispanics and before them,
Jews and Italians -- the Arab-American writer's themes are cultural conflict
and, especially, family.

"It probably goes back to the days they were living in a tent in the desert,"
Mr. Orfalea said. "Their families were all they had to hold onto; there wasn't a
tree to hold onto. But here they come to America, the family is shaken."

Coursing through the poetry is a fundamental loneliness. In the
Lebanese-American Joseph Awad's poem "For Jude's Lebanon" the narrator cries,
"Beirut, once beautiful Beirut,/Bloodied by Christian, Jew and Druze/Weeps like
a wound just under the world's heart."

In "Fawzi in Jerusalem" the Assyrian-Lebanese novelist and poet Sam Hazo
describes the immigrant's journey: "Leaving a world too old to name/and too
undying to forsake,/I flew the cold, expensive sea/toward Columbus'
mistake/where life could never be the same."

Food is often the key to memory and awareness. In "Rest in Love" D. H. Melhem,
who is Syrian, Lebanese and Greek, writes: "Not one word/of Arabic. Only my
spoon/tapping my plate./And the hot food poured into me/a bonfire of
recollections."

In his shocking poem "Sand Nigger," Lawrence Joseph, a law professor who grew up
in a family of Lebanese grocers in Detroit, addresses color. The title is an
epithet sometimes directed at them. " 'Sand nigger,' I'm called," Mr. Joseph
writes, "and the name fits: I am/the light-skinned nigger/with black eyes and
the look/difficult to figure."

Mr. Orfalea points out that there are also Arab-American authors who rarely
touch on Arab subjects. He calls them "shadow writers."

The novelist Vance Bourjaily, who is half Lebanese and the former head of the
Iowa Writers Workshop, has seldom written on Arab themes, though in "Confessions
of a Spent Youth," his autobiographical novel, Mr. Bourjaily "speaks as well as
anyone to the doubleness that all immigrants feel," Mr. Orfalea said.

The novelist Mona Simpson is half Syrian, half American, but writes about
Arabness only indirectly. In her novels "Anywhere but Here" and "The Lost
Father" the heroine's Egyptian father is largely in the background.

Among the newer writers, women predominate. It is no accident, said Elie
Chalala, the editor of Al-Jadid, a magazine of Arab culture based in Los
Angeles. "They were more daring and more open in challenging the status quo
because of their second-class status," he said. "Most of the male writers, such
as Edward Said, deal with politics. The males stayed away from literature."

"It had to with the dominant discourse of the 60's and 70's, which said that
literature and art are distractions," Mr. Chalala continued.

The women's writing is increasingly daring. Mohja Kahf, a Syrian-American,
considers herself an Islamic feminist. She is photographed wearing a traditional
head scarf, but her work is explicitly erotic, courageous for a Muslim woman and
virtually unthinkable in the previous generation.

Still, her sexually charged poem "More Than One Way to Break a Fast," about
breaking the fast at Ramadan, has all the rhythms and imagery of ancient Arabic
verse: "I have fasted, darling,/daylong all Ramadan --/but your mouth -- so
sweet,/so near -- the hours long!/Grant but one taste -- one kiss!"

In April W. W. Norton will publish "Crescent," a novel by the Jordanian-American
writer Diana Abu-Jaber. She tells the story of Sirine, an Iraqi-American chef in
a Los Angeles restaurant where the Arab customers watch television: the Kuwaiti
shopping channel, Bedouin soap operas in Arabic and American soap operas with
Arabic subtitles. Sirine falls in love with a professor at a nearby university
who had campaigned against Saddam Hussein in his native Iraq and whose sister
was murdered by Mr. Hussein's henchmen.

Coming in May from Beacon Press is "West of the Jordan," a novel by Laila
Halaby, a Jordanian-American. In it a group of Palestinian cousins shuttle
between Nawara, their village, and the United States.

"Half of the village lives here in Glendale or Hollywood or Anaheim," says
Soraya, one of the cousins. The relatives are variously intoxicated by American
culture and its sexual freedoms and frightened by them.

Ms. Hammad, the Palestinian-American poet, remembers coming of age in her
primarily Hispanic neighborhood during the rise of hip-hop.

"I grew up around rhymes and break dance," she said. Her parents are devout
Muslims. One brother is a Navy sergeant, another a college student.

"Those of us who weren't Puerto Rican created our own minority group," she said.
"Asians, blacks, Caribbeans, we were all the minority."

Ms. Hammad identified strongly with the African-Americans. Her first two books,
"Born Palestinian, Born Black" and "Drops of This Story," were both published in
1996 by Harlem River Press, a primarily African-American publishing house. "I
had all these languages available to me," she said. "I had my parents' Arabic,
black English, Spanish. I felt all this could inform my poetry."

Above all, Ms. Hammad credits her parents' teaching of the Koran as the
inspiration for her work. She became a poet, she said, because of "having
parents saying the way to live is through the music of this language." Writing
poetry, she added, "is my expressing myself as closely as possible to the
original creation. For me creativity is a reflection of a higher power."

Exotic

Exceprt from a poem by Suheir Hammad:

Don't wannabe your exotic

Like some delicate fragile colorful

bird imprisoned caged in a

land foreign to the stretch of her wings

Don't wanna be your exotic

Women everywhere look just

like me some taller darker

nicer than me but like me

Just the same women everywhere

carry my nose on their faces

my name on their spirits

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Laila Halaby, author of the forthcoming "West of the Jordan," a
novel about Palestinians torn between the United States and their homeland.
(Chris Richards for The New York Times)(pg. E9); Suheir Hammad, a poet now on
Broadway. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times); Lawrence Joseph, a poet and law
professor. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Diana Abu-Jabar's second
novel is due. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); Kahlil Gibran, whose
"Prophet" was a huge best seller. (Knopf)(pg. E1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Americas: Canada: Holocaust Denier Is Returned By U.S.

BYLINE:  By Colin Campbell (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 86 words


Immigration officials are trying to bar a Holocaust denier, Ernst Zundel, from
earning refugee status in Canada. Mr.

Zundel, 63, who faces hate-crime charges in his native Germany, was returned
from the United States on Wednesday after being arrested at his home outside
Knoxville, Tenn., for overstaying a visitor's visa. Mr. Zundel moved to Canada
in 1958, but was never granted citizenship. He left for the United States in
2001 amid attempts here to shut down his anti-Semitic Web site.   Colin Campbell
(NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Literature With Asian Roots

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1384 words


As a writer, Mai Neng Moua can braid bits of dreams and imagination with the
remnants of the past. As the editor of "Bamboo Among the Oaks," a first
anthology of Hmong American writers, she is midwife to the birth of a literary
tradition.

Like many immigrant and minority writers before them -- whether Jewish, Latino,
Irish, Italian or African-American -- the Hmong, an ethnic group with roots in
Southeast Asia, face many of the same questions. How does it feel for the sons
and daughters to write in English, forsaking the language of their parents? Does
the first generation have any responsibility to uphold the images of the group
as they seek economic and social parity? Is there conflict between being an
immigrant writer and writing about universal themes?

"The pressure to be representative can be killing to writers," said Morris
Dickstein, a professor of English at Queens College and the Graduate Center of
the City University of New York. "People like Saul Bellow, you can see in his
early work he wants to navigate the mainstream. You see him become more Jewish
in his late work than in his early work."

The newest immigrant literature has an advantage, though, Dr. Dickstein added.
He argues that American society has changed enough that immigrant writers no
longer have to be "bleached out" to fit and no longer try to be representative
of their group.

The old pattern, he said, is that the first generation of immigrants feels
grateful, the second generation feels ambivalent and rebellious about their
identity and the third generation tries to remember what the second generation
tried to forget. Ralph Ellison in particular, he said, was prescient in arguing
that America no longer had a primary culture but was a long braid of many
cultural strands, a view reflected in his essays and the novel "Invisible Man."

"The culture shifted after the 60's so that the ethnicity that was frowned upon
before became hot," Dr. Dickstein said. "To me, great writing is personal. If
it's ethnically representative, that's accidental. You find the universal in the
personal."

The Hmong (pronounced mung) stand out from other immigrant groups because of
their ties to one of the most painful periods in American history. Most are
refugees of the Vietnam War and the civil war in Laos and have been in the
United States in large numbers since the mid-70's. There are estimated to be 12
million Hmong worldwide. Of the more than 160,000 in the United States, the city
with the largest number (24,000) is St. Paul, with significant clusters
sprinkled throughout California, Michigan, Colorado, Wisconsin and North
Carolina.

One reason the Hmong have not created more of a literary splash is that their
culture is rooted in an oral tradition, and they had no written language until
about 50 years ago, when Christian missionaries in Laos used the Roman alphabet
to translate the Bible into Hmong.

"People who don't have a written tradition don't seem to exist," said Ms. Moua
(pronounced MOO-ah), 28, who lives in St. Paul and is also the editor of Paj
Ntaub Voice, a biannual Hmong literary journal.

She has only a murky, dreamlike memory of how she, her mother and her younger
brother left Laos in 1976, soon after the Vietnam War, and spent time in a
refugee camp in Thailand. Like so many of the young Hmong writers, she said, she
finds herself fighting to reclaim the past and also to feel part of contemporary
American life.

"Bamboo Among the Oaks" (Minnesota Historical Society Press, 2002) includes
fiction, fables, poetry and essays by 22 mostly Midwestern writers. Most are in
their 20's and 30's, were born in Laos and are still seeking literary
recognition. The search for identity is a common theme, with the competing pulls
of assimilation and group membership. Other pieces feature interracial romances,
the transcript of a taped interview with a long-suffering mother about being a
good Hmong woman and an ancient fable about star-crossed lovers.

Ms. Moua's contributions to the anthology include essays about her kidney
failure and her feeling of being unseen by a white lover.

Before the book there was the literary journal, which she began in 1994 while
recovering from a kidney transplant. She read to pass the time and noted the
absence of Hmong stories in Asian-American anthologies. Two years ago at a
reading, the Hmong writers featured in a copy of Paj Ntaub that Ms. Moua carried
caught the attention of an editor at the Minnesota Historical Society Press, the
largest historical society in the country. It has a mission to document life in
the Upper Midwest.

As for the Hmong, they are gradually coming into their own in America. They have
elected their first state senator, from Minnesota, and the St. Paul police have
learned to speak Hmong. The anthology is being bought particularly by educators
and those interested in Asian culture, said John van Vliet, a spokesman for the
Minnesota Historical Society Press. Since October, about 3,200 of the 4,500
books in print have been sold, said Kevin Morrissey, a marketing manager for the
press. (The book is $24.95 in hardback; $13.95 in paperback.)

"There were some fights in the community about representation," Ms. Moua said,
as the journal and then the book took off. "One woman talked about writing a
story about polygamy, and she and her father got into a fight. People say, 'Why
don't you paint some happy pictures?' "

Another writer in the book, Ka Vang, said she writes simply to make herself
understood. "I never thought I was speaking for my generation or my people,"
said Ms. Vang, 27, a St. Paul resident who was born on an American military base
in Laos. She writes breezily about gang life, REM sleep, Twinkies.

"There was just this great energy inside of myself that needed to be released,"
she said. "It is related to the barriers I face, the conflicts I face as a
first-generation Hmong woman."

While some white immigrant groups have managed to dissolve into the melting pot
if they wanted to, writers of color remain particularized, said Elaine Kim, a
professor of Asian-American Studies at the University of California at Berkeley.

American literature is marked by the tendency of publishers to rivet writers
back to their ethnicities even as the writers try to present themes unbounded by
their cultures, she said.

"Maxine Hong Kingston wore a sweatshirt on the cover of her book 'The Woman
Warrior' to show that she was a real American," Dr. Kim said. "That opened the
door for Amy Tan. Asian-Americans were thought of as eternally foreign until
recently."

She added that the point at which "literature becomes part of the canon of
American literature has to do with the way a people are thought of."

Robert Viscusi, a professor of English at Brooklyn College who often writes
about immigrants and literature, argues that "literature is the last citadel you
can crack as an outsider."

He added, "Literary critics are among the arbiters of what the ruling class
needs to know."

The socioeconomic status of a writer and the social status of the group to which
that writer belongs is significant to how quickly one ascends the literary
ladder, Professor Viscusi said. "Henry James was the grandson of an Irish
immigrant, but that's not the first thing that crosses your mind with his name,"
he said. "There is the point at which the immigrant becomes a cosmopolitan. For
James, his family had money, they were Protestants. The things we think about
have so much to do with class and position."

Ms. Moua said she is well aware that most Americans knew little about the Hmong.
While getting Hmong stories out in English has been important, she said,
something is lost in not using the language of her ancestors. English, she said,
is a blunt language, and the Hmong culture is nuanced and subtle.

Feeling caught between the past and creating a new identity often entangles
immigrant writers, said May Lee, a 23-year-old writer from St. Paul who has two
essays in the anthology. One is about Hmongspeak, her term for an indirect
speaking style. The other is about finding her voice, a meditation in metaphor.

"I first started writing because I was just inspired by other people I read,"
Ms. Lee said. "Now I'm more intentional. We are not documented. We have an
obligation to tell our story. There's no one else who will do it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mai Neng Moua is the editor of the first anthology of Hmong
American writers and a literary journal. (Craig Lassig for The New York
Times)(pg. B9); Hmong veterans: Chu Ge Ly, Nao Lee Moua, Xai Chue Moua and Xao
Moua pledge allegiance. (Associated Press)(pg. B11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           February 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Graft Aggravates Woes Plaguing Central America

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1188 words

DATELINE: GUATEMALA CITY


Long a mainstay of politics and business in Central America, corruption has
taken on new life under the region's fledgling democracies and is more pervasive
and corrosive than at any time in recent memory, analysts and diplomats say.

For the most vulnerable countries, like Guatemala, barely six years from civil
war, the problem is making it more difficult to consolidate law and order and
gain popular trust in government.

For the United States it is undermining the fight against drugs, contraband and
illegal immigrants as politicians and former military officers who had been
built up as cold war allies now trade on their influence to enrich themselves.

In January, Washington "decertified" Guatemala as a cooperative partner in the
antidrug effort, a step that jeopardized millions of dollars in foreign aid and
further tarnished Guatemala's image with investors.

"I think it the most corrupt country right now," said Manuel Orozco, Central
America project director at the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy group in
Washington.

The Guatemalan government, angered by the American decision, insists that the
problem goes beyond drug trafficking -- and beyond Guatemala -- and that
American officials have been inattentive to an issue that is nibbling away at
efforts to generate trade and lift large swaths of the region out of poverty.

Indeed, Guatemala is hardly alone. Half of Central America's countries dwell in
the bottom 20 percent of Transparency International's annual rankings of the
most corrupt countries in which to conduct business.

In Honduras, millions of aid dollars sent for rebuilding efforts after Hurricane
Mitch struck in 1998 have gone unaccounted for, while rural poverty and despair
have increased.

Last year prosecutors in Nicaragua, one of the hemisphere's poorest countries,
accused former President Arnoldo Aleman of stealing $100 million from the
government. The shock felt by many Nicaraguans was compounded by the Nicaraguan
Congress's slowness to lift the immunity that Mr. Aleman enjoyed as a
legislator. He is now under house arrest awaiting trial.

In Panama, a country whose freewheeling economy has long been favored by those
seeking to hide or channel illicit funds, corruption is nearly taken for
granted.

Last year an opposition legislator, Carlos Afu, was accused by his own party of
accepting $1.5 million for his vote to confirm two Supreme Court justices. He
defended himself by appearing on television waving $6,000 in $100 bills that he
said promoters had just paid him to approve their development project. The
message: everyone here sells his vote.

Instead of being prosecuted as a confessed bribe taker, Mr. Afu, who now votes
with the government, has been rewarded with a committee chairmanship.

The Bush administration announced last year that it would make anticorruption
efforts a condition for foreign aid increases. But the difficulty of withholding
aid from governments in a poor region that has become a popular smuggling route
was demonstrated when Washington waived penalties on national security grounds
after it decertified Guatemala.

Guatemala presents a special challenge. By most measures it has not only the
region's widest gap between rich and poor, but an everyday tolerance for
corruption at almost all levels of government and business.

Carlos Gonzalez, a law student here, learned just how ingrained it had become
when a police officer stopped him one night for no apparent reason, frisked him
and asked about the cellphone he was carrying.

"He asked where the receipt was," Mr. Gonzalez recalled. "Of course, I didn't
have it. So he told me the phone was stolen and was staying with him. Where can
you go to complain about something like this -- to the police?"

Not exactly. Byron Barrientos, the former minister of governance who oversaw the
police, is himself facing allegations of having embezzled as much as $13
million. Though no longer in office, he remains in government, as a member of
Congress, joining some 20 other lawmakers embroiled in scandals.

"Corruption is a matter of double standard," Foreign Minister Edgar Gutierrez
said in response to written questions. "Everyone points fingers, but few are
willing to point fingers, combat and do away with corruption in their own
profession or sector."

The big money, diplomats and human rights advocates say, is being made by a
shadowy smuggling network of former military officers.

The group is a holdover from Guatemala's 36-year civil war with leftist
guerrillas, when regional military commanders controlled lucrative businesses in
illegal logging or amassed sprawling properties.

Now, as they adjust to the peace brought about by accords signed in December
1996, they are seeking other ways to secure their futures in retirement.

In addition, prosecutors say that about $100 million has been stolen by various
high-ranking officials, some of whom have fled the country. Last year, in their
frustration, American officials resorted to revoking numerous visas to block
suspected criminals from doing business in or fleeing to the United States.

Among those whose visas were blocked was Francisco Ortega Menaldo, a former
general whom American officials suspect of ties to drug trafficking and human
rights abuses.

American officials increasingly suspect that security breaches are tipping off
drug gangs to raids by the United States Drug Enforcement Administration. One of
the biggest scandals last year involved the disappearance of 1.6 tons of cocaine
from police custody and the subsequent disbanding of the country's antinarcotics
squad.

Even in cases in which arrests have been made, suspects often go free.
"Basically, all the sectors of law enforcement, the judiciary, the Public
Ministry and the police have all been either bought off, penetrated or
intimidated," said one diplomat.

Prosecutors are investigating five men who were once among the country's
highest-ranking army officers in connection with smuggling of drugs and people.

But prosecutors complain that they are fearful, intimidated and underbudgeted as
they have been inundated by more than 2,400 corruption cases since 2000.
Distrustful of even the police, they find themselves staking out suspects on
their own.

Karen Fischer, the special prosecutor for corruption, suspects compliant judges
of putting up judicial roadblocks to delay or derail some cases. Even at the
bottom of the bureaucratic chain, prosecutors and others find that clerks demand
bribes simply to move paperwork.

"You have to fight with the court to not release people," Ms. Fischer said. "You
have to fight with the police to bring them in. The problem of corruption in
Guatemala is so spread out."

Under growing pressure, the government has set up an anticorruption commission
to look at issues of inefficiency and official impunity, which are of special
interest to international donors and lenders who will be meeting in May to
review Guatemala's progress.

"Corruption in Guatemala is a type of social pathology that should be analyzed
by a sociologist or psychiatrist," said Elfidio Cano, a member of the panel. "It
has become a culture that legitimizes itself."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Elfidio Cano is a member of a special commission set up by the
Guatemalan government to examine issues related to corruption. (Alex
Quesada/Polaris, for The New York Times); Foreign Minister Edgar Gutierrez of
Guatemala at a news conference in Guatemala City on Jan. 31. He criticized a
United States decision to "decertify" his country as a cooperative partner in
anti-drug efforts. (Associated Press) Map of Guatemala highlights Guatemala
City: Guatemala City is troubled by recent corruption scandals.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            February 28, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants on the Run

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 122 words


To the Editor:

Re "U.S. Crackdown Sets Off Unusual Rush to Canada" (front page, Feb. 25):

Perhaps the United States should send the Statue of Liberty to Canada, since the
immigration officials there seem to be more familiar with Emma Lazarus's words
than the officials here.

One of my students, a semester away from graduation with honors, was forced to
flee with her parents and four siblings (one a citizen) last month. They were
among the lucky ones who were welcomed into Canada, given shelter and helped to
find jobs, schools and housing. Leaving friends and belongings behind, this
immigrant family from Pakistan once again became refugees -- "tempest-tossed"
and "yearning to breathe free."

CONNIE ANESTIS
Bronx, Feb. 25, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 3, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Letter;
Two Presidential Pals, Until 9/11 Intervened

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


It was only two years ago that Vicente Fox was taking George W. Bush home to
meet his mama. The infatuation between the new president of Mexico and the new
president of the United States was in early bloom that February 2001 at Mr.
Fox's family ranch in the central Mexican state of Guanajuato, where the two men
wore his-and-his black cowboy boots and embraced the future on both sides of
their 2,000-mile border.

"Know that we consider you a friend to Mexico, a friend to Mexican people and a
friend of mine," Mr. Fox said then in English, looking directly at Mr. Bush, the
man who held the keys to an immigration deal that could have given legal status
to 3.5 million Mexicans working in the United States.

Oh, how things have changed. As anyone who watches Mexican-American relations
now knows, the Sept. 11 attacks intervened and the hopes for looser immigration
in a nation attacked by outsiders collapsed with the World Trade Center.

Mr. Fox, a former Coca-Cola executive who was once a center of Bush II foreign
policy, was sidelined for important allies against terrorism like Tony Blair and
Vladimir V. Putin.

But now, like a suitor seeking out a lover he spurned, Mr. Bush is desperately
pursuing Mr. Fox for Mexico's crucial vote on the United Nations Security
Council in favor of a resolution implicitly authorizing an American-led attack
on Iraq. And Mr. Fox, feeling neglected for the last 18 months, is holding out.
The American president he once knew, Mexicans say, is gone.

"President Bush is somewhat a different person than he was," said a person who
was at the last meeting between Mr. Bush and Mr. Fox, which came at an economic
conference last fall in the Mexican resort of Cabo San Lucas.

"He's less relaxed, he's much more intense. And that intensity sometimes makes
relations a little more complicated. There's very little small talk or banter.
Bush was remarkable at making people like Fox feel very, very comfortable. Now
he is driven by a single issue. But the fact is, Fox doesn't lose sleep every
night over what Saddam Hussein is going to do."

At that meeting, Mr. Fox invited Mr. Bush to come to Mexico for a state visit in
the middle of this year, perhaps to announce some progress on immigration, but
at least to have the visit, with or without progress. Mr. Bush declined.

"President Bush came back and said, 'Well, maybe we'll be at war then, and you
may not want me to come because maybe it won't be a popular war,' " the person
at the Cabo San Lucas meeting said. "The fact is, he wasn't addressing the issue
that President Fox was bringing up."

Arturo Valenzuela, a former National Security Council officer for Latin American
affairs, agreed with that assessment. "They did have a very strong relationship,
a good chemistry," he said. "Unlike a lot of Mexican officials who are very
intellectual -- very French, actually -- Fox is a business guy, so he comes from
a different world. But it has soured. There is a sense that Fox feels that Bush
has not understood his priorities."

There is equal exasperation on the part of a White House used to having its way,
where there are still memories of Mexico's response to the attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon.

"There is a sense in the administration that Mexico didn't come through after
9/11," said a Latin American scholar close to both administrations. "They didn't
say anything for several days. And even Mexicans were surprised. After a while,
you have a distancing. Bush does keep score."

The White House also says that Mexico has been unrealistic in its hopes for an
immigration deal after the Sept. 11 attacks.

"That whole enchilada is not digestible in the U.S. political system," a senior
administration official said last week, playing off the comment of Jorge G.
Castaneda, Mexico's former foreign minister, who said in the summer of 2001 that
the immigration deal had to be "the whole enchilada, or nothing."

Last week, after a call from Mr. Bush, Mr. Fox appeared to wobble from one hazy
position to another on the forthcoming vote in the United Nations Security
Council, where Mexico is one of six undecided nations the United States needs to
assure that the resolution passes. This week, only three months before Mexico's
midterm elections, Mr. Fox will remain under enormous pressure, pulled in one
direction by the vast majority of his nation's citizens, who are opposed to war,
and in the other by an insistent business community warning of what they see as
the economic consequences of defying the Americans.

"There are no two nations in the world that are more interconnected than Mexico
and the United States," said Juan Jose Bremer Martino, the Mexican ambassador to
Washington, in an interview last week.

For now, the betting in both countries is that economic considerations will
ultimately force Mr. Fox to side with the United States, more than any love for
the president he took home to Mama.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicente Fox and President Bush at an economic conference in
Mexico last October. An immigration deal Fox wants was dropped after 9/11.
(Agence France-Presse)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 7, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old Ways Bring Tears In a New World;
Immigrants Face Family Violence

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1507 words


With the breakup of the Soviet Union, Jews started streaming here from the
central Asian lands of Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan and
Kyrgyzstan, and they formed a thriving colony in the central Queens lands of
Forest Hills, Rego Park and Kew Gardens.

Known as Bukharan Jews, after an Uzbek city, and proud of traditions seen
nowhere else in Judaism, they have grown to almost 40,000 strong, establishing
synagogues and flavorful restaurants. But in recent years they have been
grappling with a demon that seems to have slipped in with the baggage they
brought over.

Back there, Bukharan Jews lived among patriarchal societies where the husband
ruled the household and sometimes enforced his will with a raised hand. But
here, Bukharan men, like those of many other immigrant groups, are confronting
the realities of a new land.

Their wives, less finicky about working as home health aides and supermarket
cashiers, are often the first to land jobs and, even after their husbands do,
sometimes end up earning more money. At work, they see accomplished and
outspoken women, and steadily and subtly their relationships with their husbands
shift. Some men, already frustrated by their clumsiness with a strange language
and perplexing streets, chafe at their diminished status. A few -- not many, but
enough to worry the Bukharan community -- take their anger out on their wives.

That is why a delegation of three synagogue leaders set off last year to the
home of a 30ish jewelry worker in Rego Park. The man, an immigrant who had
experienced setbacks at work, had struck his wife, a bookkeeper. She had called
911 and the police locked him up. The tight-knit Bukharan community -- still
forging its reputation -- was disgraced by the jailing.

"To raise a hand on another person, let alone your spouse, you are considered an
evil person," Rabbi Shlomo Nisanov, head of Kehilat Sephardim of Ahavat Achim in
Kew Gardens Hills, remembers telling the man.

Rabbi Nisanov said that the husband had claimed that she deserved it, that she
did not "know how to respect her husband."

The rabbi told him: "You can talk with words. You don't have to hit."

The problem of spousal abuse among the Bukharans is probably no greater than in
other immigrant communities, said Lois M. Raff, counsel to the Queens district
attorney's office.

Indeed, Emira Habiby Browne, executive director of the Arab-American Family
Support Center in downtown Brooklyn, said that many of the problems Bukharan men
face are also common to Arab immigrant men, who, she said, are also frightened
by losing power in the family.

"The immigration experience lends itself to domestic violence because of all the
stresses," she said.

But the Bukharans have publicly wrestled with the issue, holding a conference on
family violence in January and four sponsored by the Queens district attorney,
Richard A. Brown. Another conference is planned for May 4, when Justice Martin
E. Ritholtz of State Supreme Court will talk about the law and domestic
violence.

There are already a handful of grass-roots agencies that counsel married men and
women. Although the lessons would raise some feminist eyebrows, the Beit Shalom
organization instructs prospective brides and grooms about being sensitive to
moods as a way of avoiding fights, telling grooms to be understanding of working
wives who don't have supper ready the moment they come home, urging them to
alleviate their hunger by stopping at a coffee shop for a small bite.

"Many men don't want to come home, because she wants to tell him all the
problems and he wants to get free," said Leah Davidov, an instructor of brides.
"So, in these cases, what should you do?"

Rabbi Yitzhak Yehoshua, chief rabbi of the Bukharans here, reinforces such
lessons, by reminding his community that the Torah and Talmud prohibit physical
and verbal abuse, and that marriage requires mutual consent, not imposition of
one spouse's will over the other.

Community workers say that this type of program has helped reduce the incidence
of abuse.

Still, the Bukharans, tribal and intensely private, have not been happy having
the problem aired. Many were embarrassed by an article on family violence in
their community in Jewish Week.

"This problem is in any community, especially immigrant community," said Boris
Kandov, president of the four-year-old Congress of Bukharan Jews of the United
States and Canada.

The community's leaders would rather the news media focus on the thousands of
solid families and the children -- even those who arrived here as teenagers --
who have gone on to competitive colleges and become doctors and engineers.

They are proud of their 30 kosher restaurants where families gather nightly,
dining on kebab and tandoori-baked bread while listening to Bukharan music
played on the lute-like tar and doira (hand drum) by performers in brocaded silk
kaftans. They would rather attention be paid to a four-story cultural center and
museum they are building in Forest Hills and a new $7.3 million yeshiva in Rego
Park where Bukharan children study for free.

Yet people who work with Bukharan Jews do not deny that cultural differences and
the emotional upheaval of transplantation have led to occasional spasms of
abuse.

"The problem is whatever was O.K. in Russia is not O.K. here," said Lali Janash,
a case manager at the Esther Grunblatt Service Center for Russian Immigrants in
Rego Park. "The same as child abuse. To spank a child in Russia is O.K."

Rabbi Nisanov, who was raised in a suburb of Samarkand in Uzbekistan and came
here as a boy, said, "We always have this problem, but now the women are
speaking out, the rabbis are speaking out and we're not just shoving it under
the rug like we did before."

Until they came here in large numbers, Bukharan Jews were obscure even to most
American Jews. Dark-eyed and dark-haired, they trace their lineage to those Jews
who stayed in central Asia region after the Hebrew exile in Babylonia ended in
538 B.C. In virtual isolation from the rest of world Jewry, even the Sephardim
whom they most resemble, they cultivated distinct traditions. At funerals,
eulogies are delivered in song, and for seven days afterward friends gather in
restaurants to raise money to support the grieving family. On Friday nights,
instead of gefilte fish, they eat fried fish in garlic sauce.

In central Asia, they developed a clannish culture where blood relatives lived
around a courtyard and the husband's mother was often the dominant woman in a
household.

"The men would get anger and frustration out at their wives and the next day
they would kiss her and bring her flowers," recalled Lana Levitin, the Bukharan
congress' cultural chairwoman who runs workshops on women's legal rights through
her organization, World of Women Immigrants. "The man wasn't ostracized. The
mother-in-law would say, 'Aren't you happy when he buys you something? So he
hits you once or twice; it's not a big deal. If you take his love, you can take
his abuse.' "

As a result of the instability that followed the collapse of Soviet rule and
worries about growing Muslim fundamentalism, thousands of Bukharans left for
Israel and the United States. Although many barbers, jewelers and merchants soon
resumed their occupations, many went to work here as taxi drivers or factory
workers, and many could not find work.

"There, he was a professor making money," Ms. Janash said of a typical Bukharan
man. "Here, he is no one."

Some time ago, Ms. Janash spent six sessions with a cab driver and his wife sent
to her by the courts. The man had pulled a knife on his wife, and their teenage
son called the police. In private the man began weeping, saying how rotten he
felt that he could not better support his wife.

Zoya Fuzailova Nisanov, the rabbi's mother, said that women, intoxicated by
American freedoms and affluence, sometimes add to the pressure on their
husbands. "She says to him, 'She has a car. Why don't I have? She has a fur
coat. Why don't I have?' " she said.

Bukharan women often do not report assaults, fearing they will lose their
husband to divorce or deportation, that he will take the children back to
central Asia, or that a scandal will make it difficult for the couple's children
to marry. But women seem to be more resilient to the stresses of immigration,
said Gloria Blumenthal, director of acculturation at the New York Association
for New Americans, which helps immigrants find jobs and housing, while the men
seem more paralyzed by the old ways.

Ms. Blumenthal recalled that several Bukharan men once sought her help in
stopping the deportation of a friend accused of a crime against his wife. What
was the crime? she asked. Rape, they said. When she refused to help, Ms.
Blumenthal said, "they looked at me like I was crazy."

Ms. Janash thinks the intimate, gossipy nature of Bukharan culture is serving to
reduce the abuse problem, with people telling each other that it is unacceptable
here.

"Women are more courageous and they take a step," she said. "They don't suffer
in silence anymore."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bukharan community leaders like Boris Kandov and Lana Levitin,
are waging a fight against domestic violence. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York
Times)(pg. B4); Rabbi Shlomo Nisanov says that the problem of domestic violence
in the Bukharan community won't be "shoved under the rug like we did before."
Below, a Russian-language "Manual for Abused Women."; A congregant listening to
a sermon. (Photographs by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLUSHING;
Chinese Workers Huddle Outdoors, Waiting for a Job Or a Summons

BYLINE:  By DENNY LEE

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 523 words


They arrive at the crack of dawn, recent immigrants from Liaoning Province of
China, hunting for an honest day's work behind a housing project in Flushing,
Queens.

At 7:30 the other morning, a dozen scruffy men were huddled along 40th Road, a
grimy blocklong commercial strip off Main Street that reeks of spoiled cabbage
even in subzero weather. Dressed in paint-splattered jeans, they waited
nervously to be picked up and whisked to a construction site. Local residents
call it the Flea Market of Workers.

No one recalls how it came into existence, but it has been going on for about
five years and can attract 20 or 30 men at a time. Now, its days may be
numbered. Since late last year, the police have been arresting workers after
receiving complaints from residents and nearby businesses about noise, public
urination and traffic.

"The sidewalk gets very crowded," said Fretta Johnson, a department store clerk
who lives in Bland Houses, a housing project on the block. "Most don't speak
English, so when you say, 'Excuse me,' they don't move."

But misunderstandings extend beyond language.

"This is part of the work culture in Asian countries like China," said Dominic
Yip, director of the Queens branch of the Chinatown Planning Council, a
nonprofit group. "The construction companies can't afford a big crew, so they
hire day workers."

Lang Xuan Huang, 48, was among those recently ticketed for disorderly conduct. A
short man with stubby fingers, Mr. Huang paced up and down 40th Road to stay
warm, carrying nothing but his wallet. He had no choice. He needed the money.

"I lost two days of work," Mr. Huang said in Mandarin. In addition to being sent
home by the police, he had to appear in court to answer the summons. "I wasn't
breaking the law," he said. "I'm just looking for a job."

Workers say they earn $70 to $80 for a 10-hour day, painting or slapping up
drywall. Those with plumbing and electrical skills can earn $100. Most job sites
are nearby, but some workers travel as far as Connecticut, said Fred Fu,
president of the Flushing Business Association, a 300-member group.

Similar meeting places have sprouted in this fast-growing Chinese enclave, each
catering to different dialects. While most here speak Mandarin,
Fujianese-speaking immigrants and employers rendezvous along 41st Avenue near
Main Street, and at Roosevelt Avenue near 138th Street. But so far, the arrests
have been limited to 40th Road.

"There were many complaints from the community," said Detective Walter Burnes, a
police spokesman. Since loitering is not illegal, workers get summonses for
blocking traffic.

But Councilman John C. Liu, who represents the area, said the police should be
going after the employers instead. "The employers don't pay legal wages," he
said. "You can go after the workers all you want, but if the demand is there,
the quality-of-life problems will remain."

At 8:30 a.m., a white Toyota Camry pulled up to the curb, and its driver, Dong
Han, a Long Island contractor, was quickly surrounded. "They do a very good
job," Mr. Han said. But he admitted he was biased. "I started as a day worker."
DENNY LEE

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Day workers, who earn $70 to $80 for unskilled labor, gather
around the van of a potential employer. (Richard Lee for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              March 9, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-9-03;
What They Were Thinking

BYLINE:  By Brian Mann

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 174 words


Mohammad Ibrahim Jamil, Burlington, Vt., Feb. 6, 2003, the week his family fled
to Canada rather than have him register with the I.N.S., as all male Pakistani
nationals must now do by March 21.

Jamil (center): "I'm still legal here, but we are leaving. I come from Karachi,
Pakistan. I've lived in America for 12 years, the first five in Chicago and then
in California. I worked for Advanced Computer Technology. These two of my three
children were born here; they're American citizens. This special registration is
not for everybody. If it was, I wouldn't mind, but it's particularly for
Muslims. I don't feel safe. I took some time to think and decided it's better to
leave. So we drove here. Soon, my wife and children and I will cross the border
for our refugee hearing. I don't know about our future in Canada. We have no
family, no contacts. Of course, I'm a little bit angry. America used to be a
good place for us, but if I talked now to someone in Pakistan, I would say, 'You
had better stay over there.' "   interview by Brian Mann

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo (Ben Stechschulte)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Africa's Lost Tribe Discovers American Way

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

DATELINE: KAKUMA, Kenya


The engines rumbled and the red sand swirled as the cargo plane roared onto the
dirt airstrip. One by one, the dazed and impoverished refugees climbed from the
belly of the plane into this desolate wind-swept camp.

They are members of Africa's lost tribe, the Somali Bantu, who were stolen from
the shores of Mozambique, Malawi and Tanzania and carried on Arab slave ships to
Somalia two centuries ago. They were enslaved and persecuted until Somalia's
civil war scattered them to refugee camps in the 1990's.

Yet on this recent day, the Bantu people were rejoicing as they stepped from the
plane into the blinding sun. They were the last members of the tribe to be
transferred from a violent camp near the Somali border to this dusty place just
south of Sudan. They knew their first trip in a flying machine was a harbinger
of miracles to come.

Over the next two years, nearly all of the Somali Bantu refugees in Kenya --
about 12,000 people -- are to be flown to the United States. This is one of the
largest refugee groups to receive blanket permission for resettlement since the
mid-1990's, State Department officials say.

The refugees will be interviewed by American immigration officials in this camp,
which is less violent than the camp near Somalia. The interview process has been
slowed by security concerns in the aftermath of Sept. 11. Despite the repeated
delays, the preparations for the extraordinary journey are already under way.

Every morning, dozens of peasant farmers take their seats in classrooms in a
simple one-story building with a metal roof. They study English, hold their
first notebooks and pens, and struggle to learn about the place called America.
It is an enormous task.

The Bantu, who were often denied access to education and jobs in Somalia, are
mostly illiterate and almost completely untouched by modern life. They measure
time by watching the sun rise and fall over their green fields and mud huts.

As refugees, they have worked the soil, cooked, cleaned and labored in
backbreaking construction jobs, filling about 90 percent of the unskilled jobs
in the camp in Dadaab, Kenya, where most Bantu people lived until they were
transferred here last year. But most have never turned on a light switch,
flushed a toilet or held a lease.

So the students here study in a classroom equipped with all the trappings of
modern American life, including a gleaming refrigerator, a sink, a toilet and a
bathtub. They are learning about paper towels and toilet cleanser and peanut
butter and ice trays, along with English and American culture.

Refugee officials here fear that the Bantu's battle to adjust to a high-tech
world will only be complicated by American ambivalence about immigrants since
the terrorist attacks in the United States.

The Bantu are practicing Muslims. Women cover their hair with brightly colored
scarves. Families pray five times a day. In Somalia, they were in a
predominantly Muslim country often described as a breeding ground for
terrorists.

The American government requires refugees from such hot spots to undergo a new
series of security clearances before they can be resettled in the United States.
The new system has delayed the arrival of thousands of refugees, leaving them to
languish in camps where children often die of malnutrition.

But most people here are willing to do what it takes to live in a country that
outlaws discrimination. While they wait, they learn about leases and the
separation between church and state, and they practice their limited English.

About 700 Bantu have gone through this cultural orientation. By the end of
September, State Department officials say, 1,500 are expected to be resettled in
about 50 American cities and towns, including Boston; Charlotte, N.C.; San
Diego; and Erie, Pa.

In America, the refugees tell each other, the Bantu will be considered human
beings, not slaves, for the first time.

"It's scary," said Haw Abass Aden, a peasant farmer still trembling as she
stepped off her first flight through the clouds. She clung tightly to a kerosene
lamp with one hand and her little girl with the other. But she regained her
composure as she considered her future.

"We are coming here to be resettled in the United States," said Ms. Aden, 20,
speaking through a translator. "There, we will find peace and freedom."

After centuries of suffering, they are praying that America will be the place
where they will finally belong. The United Nations has been trying to find a
home for the Bantu for more than a decade because it is painfully clear they
cannot return to Somalia.

In Somalia, the lighter-skinned majority rejected the Bantu, for their slave
origins and dark skin and wide features. Even after they were freed from
bondage, the Bantu were denied meaningful political representation and rights to
land ownership. During the Somali civil war, they were disproportionately
victims of rapes and killings.

The discrimination and violence continues in the barren camps today -- even here
-- where the Bantu are often attacked and dismissed as Mushungulis, which means
slave people.

But finding a new home for the Bantu refugees here has not been easy. First
Tanzania and then Mozambique, the Bantu's ancestral homelands, agreed to take
the tribe. Both impoverished countries ultimately reneged, saying they could not
afford to resettle the group.

In 1999, the United States determined that the Somali Bantu tribe was a
persecuted group eligible for resettlement. The number of African refugees
approved for admission in the United States surged from 3,318 in 1990 to 20,084
a decade later as the cold war ended and American officials focused on assisting
refugees beyond those fleeing Communist countries.

"I don't think Somalia is my country because we Somali Bantus have seen our
people treated like donkeys there," said Fatuma Abdekadir, 20, who was waiting
for her class to start. "I think my country is where I am going.

"There, there is peace. Nobody can treat you badly. Nobody can come into your
house and beat you."

The refugees watch snippets of American life on videos in class, and they marvel
at the images of supermarkets filled with peppers and tomatoes and of tall
buildings that reach for the clouds. But they know little about racism, poverty,
the bone-chilling cold or the cities that will be chosen for them by refugee
resettlement agencies.

What they know is this flat, parched corner of Africa, a place of thorn trees
and numbing hunger where water comes from wells when it comes at all -- a place
of fierce heat and wind that whips the sand into biting and blinding storms.

In the classes, the teachers try to prepare the Bantu for a modern world. Issack
Adan carefully guides his students through the lessons, taking questions from
older men with graying beards, teenage girls with ballpoint pens tucked into
their head scarves and young mothers with babies tied to their backs.

The lesson of the day: a white flush toilet. "Come close, come close," Mr. Adan
said as the women approached the strange object doubtfully. "Mothers, you sit on
it, you don't stand on it."

The women nodded, although they seemed uncertain. Mr. Adan showed them how to
flush the toilet and how to clean it. "You wash with this thing and you will
have a good smell," he said.

"A very nice smell," the students agreed.

Then Abubakar Saidali, a 30-year-old student, looked closely at the odd
contraption and asked, "But where does that water go?" For an answer, Mr. Adan
took the refugees outside to show them the pipes that carry the sewage.

Back in the classroom, the students spent the next few hours learning about the
refrigerator, ice cubes and strawberry jam. They watched eagerly as Mr. Adan
washed dishes in a sink and admired the bathtub and shower. One woman demurred,
however, when he invited her to step into the tub.

"It is so clean," she said shyly. "Can I really step in it?"

Some students grumbled that the American appliances seemed more complicated than
their ordinary ways of living. Why worry about cleaning a toilet, some refugees
said aloud, when the bushes never need to be cleaned?

But Mr. Saidali said he was thrilled to learn about modern toilets after years
of relying on smelly pit latrines.

"This latrine is inside the house," marveled Mr. Saidali, a lean man in tattered
sneakers. "It's better than what we are now using. It has a seat for sitting and
the water goes down.

"Even this sink -- it's my first time," he said. "This sink is for washing. It
cleans things very nicely."

Even with the lessons, some Bantu are worried about how they will cope in
America. They know that blacks and Muslims are minorities there. Will Americans
be welcoming? Will they learn English quickly enough? Will they find jobs and
housing and friends? Some officials here worry, too.

"These people are from rural areas," Mr. Adan said. "They don't know much about
modern life."

But the refugees who arrived on the plane here said they were eager for the
challenge.

Uncertain of what might be needed in the United States, they carried most of
their precious possessions -- broken brooms, chipped mugs, metal plates -- as
they boarded a rattling bus that roared deep into the camp as the sun sank
beyond the horizon.

The refugees knew they would be sleeping on the ground again and going hungry as
they have often done. But they also knew that this was only the first phase of
an incredible journey.

First stop, Kakuma. Next stop, America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Somali Bantu refugees at a camp in Kakuma, Kenya, take classes
to prepare for new lives in the United States. (Joao Silva for The New York
Times)(pg. A1); Somali Bantu men, left, were taught how to read signs on public
toilets during an orientation class at the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya. In
another class, right, Somali Bantu women learned how to use and clean a sink.; A
Somali Bantu child was weighed upon arrival at the Kakuma camp. (Photographs by
Joao Silva for The New York Times)(pg. A7) Map of Kenya highlighting Kakuma:
Somali Bantu refugees in Kakuma are learning about American life. (pg. A7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 10, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iranian Cyclist to Be Released As Agency Lets Asylum Stand

BYLINE:  By NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 498 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will not appeal a judge's grant of
political asylum to an Iranian cyclist who was arrested last fall by Border
Patrol agents in the Arizona desert while on a self-described peace mission.

As a result, the bicyclist, Reza K. Baluchi, is to be released today, four
months after his Nov. 10 arrest, from the immigration service's detention center
in Florence, Ariz., free to pursue his dream of crossing the United States from
west to east, his destination New York City and ground zero.

Mr. Baluchi, 30, who could not be reached for comment yesterday, said on Feb.
27, the day the immigration judge, LaMonte Freerks, granted him asylum, that he
remained optimistic about his chances of liberty and said that a couple more
days in jail would be "no problem."

After cycling 46,000 miles through 54 countries spreading his message of love
and peace like a latter-day flower child, Mr. Baluchi was picked up by a Border
Patrol helicopter that swooped down on his campsite in southern Arizona. He was
charged with entering the United States illegally. He said at the time that he
had been waiting in Mexico for a visa to enter the United States and had become
lost while cycling near the border.

Border agents were not swayed by that story. But the details of what he said
were years of persecution in his native Iran convinced Judge Freerks that he
might be further persecuted if the United States were to send him back there,
Mr. Baluchi's lawyer, Suzannah Maclay, said.

"He was a credible witness," said Ms. Maclay, who introduced as evidence reports
from the State Department, Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International that
showed what she said was a pattern of persecution in Iran "on account of imputed
political opinion."

While the reports dealt with cases other than Mr. Baluchi's, his lawyer told the
judge that her client had been arrested in Iran at least three times, once for
associating with "counterrevolutionaries," for which he served 18 months in
jail. On another occasion, Ms. Maclay said, he received 20 lashes in public for
eating a sandwich during Ramadan -- the monthlong period in which Muslims fast
during the day -- and a third time he was hung by his cuffed wrists from a tree
for carrying a banned prerevolutionary movie on videotape and wearing a Michael
Jackson T-shirt.

Fearing further persecution, Mr. Baluchi left Iran with his bicycle on a journey
that he meticulously recorded in photographs in a black-leather journal that Ms.
Maclay is holding for him, awaiting his release. She intends to pick him up
today at the detention center and drive him to Phoenix, where an Iranian
engineer who has taken an interest in Mr. Baluchi's case has arranged to give
him shelter until he can get back on the road.

Mr. Baluchi intends to pick up his bicycle and camping equipment from storage in
Yuma, Ariz., and head for Los Angeles. When is ready, he said, he will run from
there across the country, his peace mission resumed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Reza K. Baluchi said that at the time of his arrest he was lost.
(Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 15, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Consulate in Los Angeles Exudes Power and Energy

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1089 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 14


It was 7:30 a.m., and 1,000 Mexicans, many of them recent immigrants, jammed the
gritty sidewalks outside the Mexican Consulate here recently, waiting for
everything from medical examinations for the sick to legal help for the
imprisoned.

Consul General Martha I. Lara Alatorre, who with a bulldog's persistence has
become an influential advocate for millions of Mexican-born workers in Los
Angeles, was backslapping her way through the crowd.

"How're we doing, paisano?" Ms. Lara greeted a man who was waiting for consular
help in shipping the body of his wife, dead of cancer, back to Mexico. She
bear-hugged a young hotel maid, an illegal immigrant who hoped to apply for an
identification card issued by the consulate that would allow her to open an
American bank account.

"I have more constituents than the mayor of Los Angeles," Ms. Lara, a former
senator for the State of Chihuahua, said, only half in jest.

She and her 70-member staff offer services to 4.7 million Mexicans in the sprawl
of greater Los Angeles, while the population of Mayor James K. Hahn's core city
is 3.6 million.

Ms. Lara's consulate is one of the busiest diplomatic missions in the world,
serving a city that includes the largest concentration of Mexicans outside
Mexico City. Its range of services often makes Ms. Lara seem more like a
governor than a diplomat. She inaugurates immigrant-owned businesses, certifies
births, marries lovers and crowns beauty queens.

Her work opens a window on the extraordinary growth and evolution of the Latino
population in the United States as it moves into the political and economic
mainstream after decades in the shadows.

Most of the Mexicans who visit the consulate are janitors, garbage collectors
and other menial workers who keep Southern California humming. But Ms. Lara also
entertains a stream of visiting Mexican politicians, and she attends to
Mexican-born glitterati like the boxer Oscar De La Hoya and the actress Salma
Hayek, whom the ambassador recently whisked into the consulate through a
basement entrance, out of the glare of the Hollywood paparazzi, to process a
passport.

In an interview, Ms. Lara said her greatest achievement was to persuade Wells
Fargo, the bank based in San Francisco, to accept consular ID as proof of
identity for opening an account at its thousands of branches in 23 states. Since
Wells Fargo took that decision, in November 2001, at least 70,000 Mexicans have
opened accounts, said Miriam Galicia Duarte, a spokeswoman for the bank.

Dozens of other banks, including Citibank and JPMorgan Chase, have also agreed
to honor the ID, as have many American cities and counties. Ms. Lara's consulate
issued 160,000 ID's last year, and other consulates issued thousands more.

Immigration experts said the widespread acceptance of the ID was a watershed in
the lives of millions of Mexicans who work in the United States without valid
immigration documents and previously lacked any legal identification. The card
allows them not only to obtain banking services, but also to participate more
fully in American life in ways like reporting crimes, traveling on planes and
renting videos.

But groups seeking to curb illegal immigration are outraged.

"This is an attempt by the Mexican government to bring about a de facto amnesty
for illegal aliens," said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for
Immigration Studies, a group in Washington that seeks tighter enforcement of
immigration laws. "These Mexican officials are meeting with mayors, police
chiefs and newspaper editors to make the case that this Mexican card should be
accepted as legitimate within the United States. Why are we permitting it?"

In the 1990's, some politicians blamed illegal immigrants for many of
California's economic woes, and Mexican diplomats often drew criticism if they
spoke up for immigrants. Last week in San Diego, there was a new dispute after
law enforcement authorities used a spike belt to stop a pickup speeding along an
Interstate. The truck crashed, killing two people and injuring 20, most of them
illegal immigrants. Rodulfo Figueroa Aramoni, the Mexican consul general in San
Diego, criticized the authorities for "gross negligence." The California Highway
Patrol and the Border Patrol faulted smugglers suspected of jamming the truck
with illegal immigrants.

"Mexican diplomats are very much on the front line," said Wayne Cornelius, the
Gildred professor of political science and international relations at the
University of California at San Diego. "Anything they do to defend their
constituents can offend people who believe undocumented immigrants shouldn't be
coddled."

In contrast, Ms. Lara's relations with the powers that be here are cordial, a
measure, perhaps, of the increasing power that Hispanic voters enjoy. In
November 2001, she accompanied Mayor Hahn and several City Council members to
Mexico City to meet President Vicente Fox. In June, the 15-member Council
unanimously approved an ordinance recognizing Mexico's consular ID for use in
transactions with city agencies, including the Police Department.

"This was good for economic development, human dignity and public safety," said
Eric M. Garcetti, the council member who proposed the bill. "If you have
thousands of people out there with no ID, they are not trackable. So it improves
security to bring them out of the shadows."

Processing applications for some 500 cards each day is a small part of the
consulate's work. On Thursday, one of Ms. Lara's aides was at the county jail,
visiting some of the estimated 4,500 Mexican inmates there. Another diplomat
worked the telephones, seeking to persuade American officials to permit the
mother of an 11-month-old with leukemia at a hospital in Los Angeles to cross
from her home in Mexicali, Mexico, to visit the infant.

On the top floor of the consulate, Ms. Lara met Health Department officials to
discuss a new clinic at the consulate that will offer free tests for diabetes
and other diseases. Minutes later, she sat down with 12 aging men in cowboy hats
who said they had been cheated of Social Security payments after working as
braceros, or field hands, in the United States during and after World War II.

Later she traveled to a hospital to process an official document for a Mexican
man with meningitis. Back at her office, Ms. Lara worked out details with Los
Angeles school officials to be a co-sponsor of classes in Mexican art at the
consulate. She denied being tired.

"Representing Mexico in Los Angeles," she said, "fills me with adrenaline."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: More than 1,000 people seeking a variety of services jammed
sidewalks outside the Mexican Consulate on West Sixth Street in Los Angeles.; In
one of her many meetings, Consul General Martha I. Lara conferred with field
hands who sought help with their Social Security payments. (Photographs by
Robert Galbraith for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 18, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: NEW YORK CITY;
For Immigrants, Mixed View Of War and a World of Hate

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 994 words


On the brink of war, Americans are perplexed by a world that seems to have
turned against them. That world, however, is vigorously present in polyglot New
York City, in the children, siblings and cousins of many of the same people who
are expressing such vitriol against the United States.

But here immigrants view the impending war with Iraq through a kind of split
lens. One part of that lens sees the United States as the country that provided
them with a haven from tyranny or bloodshed or poverty. But the other half may
be shaped by lingering loyalties to their homelands, many of which oppose the
war, or by firsthand experience with war in their native countries, where
seemingly simple solutions turned out to have ambiguous outcomes.

Thus on New York City's streets, there is a babel of views on whether the United
States should attack Iraq, with conflicting opinions often coming out of the
same person.

"I'm 51 percent for the war and 49 percent against it." said Mark Kukuliev, a
Russian immigrant in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, who captured the ambivalence of
many immigrants.

He explained that he holds no animus against Iraqis, only against their leader.
"I think Saddam Hussein learned all of his tricks by studying Stalin," he said.
"Stalin might as well have been his father." But as the part owner of a
cellphone store, Mr. Kukuliev also worries about what war might do to the
economy.

Even the city's Iraqi immigrants display the ambivalence. Most of them are
Shiite Muslims who fled Iraq because of the oppression they said they suffered
under Saddam Hussein. Yet they worry that the bombs being massed against him may
soon fall on their relatives.

"This war is like trying to kill the weed by destroying the whole farm," said an
Iraqi who gave his name only as Muhammed yesterday at the Imam al-Khoei Islamic
Center, a mosque in Jamaica, Queens.

Harilaos Daskalothanassis, the managing editor of The National Herald, a Greek
newspaper based in Astoria, Queens, pointed out that most Greeks in Greece are
against the war, but Greek-Americans "see the war through the American
experience."

Mr. Daskalothanassis, who like many immigrants came to America to study and
stayed, said, "We've been here more than 10 years, and we remember the gulf war,
and we know that Saddam has not disarmed, and we know he's started three wars in
his neighborhood and a million people died."

Many Greeks who have written to his newspaper compare the American campaign
against Iraq to the empire building of the Athenians as they went to war with
Sparta in the fifth century B.C. It is a cautionary tale that should have
spurred the Bush administration to hesitate, but some Greeks see a dual lesson.

"It didn't go that well for the Athenians, but then again the Spartans were more
powerful than the Iraqis," Mr. Daskalothanassis said.

Ariel Gratch, a 51-year-old Israeli businessman who lives on the Upper East
Side, compared what he called America's "failure of leadership" in Iraq to what
he sees as a failure of leadership in Israel to deal successfully with the
Palestinians after the intifada began in late 2000.

He said the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, tried to link the uprising on
the streets and campaign of suicide bombers to the collapse of the talks at Camp
David in 2000. But Mr. Gratch saw that as a pretext for not persisting with
negotiations and dealing with the roots of terror. Similarly, he said, President
Bush is trying to link Iraq to the 9/11 attack as a pretext for the war he
always wanted.

Nevertheless, Mr. Gratch, embodying the old joke that when you have two Israelis
you get three opinions, said he thought the United States should go to war
because its immersion in the Middle East would teach it that it must grapple
with why Arabs and other Muslims "hate us so much."

Richard Alba, a distinguished professor of sociology at the State University at
Albany, said immigrants whose countries are in conflict with the United States
face an impossible choice.

"If they attempt to gain acceptance in the mainstream society, they risk in
their own eyes being perceived as disloyal to their own group," he said. "If, on
the other hand, they retreat into the group, they are giving up on opportunities
available in mainstream society."

Many German and Italian immigrants faced this quandary on the eve of World War
II, he said. Jews, too, were often less than forceful in pressing for the
Roosevelt administration to take in refugees from Nazi Germany, fearing a
backlash of anti-Semitism. And today Arab-Americans face rejection by their own
community if they support the United States, yet "increased suspicion and
scrutiny" if they do not.

In the flavorful Arab neighborhood along Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, that
conflict was apparent. Mohamed Salih, 38, an immigrant from Sudan who owns a
barber shop, said that Muslims who chat about a possible war in his shop -- and
that happens all the time now -- are almost unanimously opposed.

"If you find somebody that is for this war, they are lying to you," he said. "A
lot of people they are going to die first. Saddam is going to be the last one
who's going to die. Don't just think about Saddam; think about all these
people."

Jacques Amar, a Frenchman by birth who owns a coffee shop called Cafe de France
on Northern Boulevard in Little Neck, Queens, said he departs from his onetime
compatriots on their refusal to support the United States. "The French are lucky
that America wants to do the dirty job," he said.

"America's heart is in the right place, but they're so misunderstood, unless you
live here," he said. "The facts speaks for themselves; it's why everybody wants
to come here.

But he also worries that some Americans will take out their newfound resentment
of the French by snubbing his business. So for good measure he is thinking of
changing the cafe's name to something more politically neutral, like Casablanca.

"It's not doing me any good," he said of the French name.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 19, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum for Abused Women

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 420 words


In 1995, Rodi Alvarado Pena came to the United States from Guatemala and asked
for asylum. Her request was based on a controversial claim -- that returning
home would put her in danger from her husband, who had brutalized her for a
decade. Mrs. Alvarado won asylum, but an appeals panel reversed the decision.
Janet Reno, then attorney general, vacated the panel's decision in 2001 and
issued rules that made refuge possible on a very limited basis for women in
similar situations.

Those rules were never made final, and now Attorney General John Ashcroft is
reconsidering them as well as the granting of asylum to Mrs. Alvarado.
Abolishing these rules would endanger women fleeing honor killings, sexual
slavery and other gender-related crimes.

Anti-immigrant groups argue that if America grants refuge to those endangered by
private citizens, it will be flooded by asylum claims. Experience says
otherwise. After the United States decided to grant asylum to women fleeing
female genital mutilation, there was no increase in claims on this basis.
Immigration officials have said they expect no increase if the Alvarado rules
become final.

Allowing the Alvarado rules to stand would not open America's doors to every
victim of domestic violence and other gender-related crimes. The rules simply
allow women to ask for asylum when they are victims of these acts. If the rules
are abolished, there would be no such opportunity. But no woman would be likely
to get asylum unless she could show that she would be in danger anywhere in her
home country and that there was government participation in her persecution,
including through an official refusal to provide protection, as happened to Mrs.
Alvarado.

In several nations, so-called honor killings are encouraged for women who
violate social norms -- by having an affair or even being seen with a man. The
state fails to protect intended victims, and the killers get only perfunctory
sentences. Women forced to work as prostitutes often find no escape because the
police are corrupt. In many countries, the government provides no shelter or
other assistance to victims of domestic violence. Some abusers are well
connected enough to be able to stalk and find their fleeing victims, wherever
they go.

Obviously, not every woman who suffers domestic violence should be able to
escape to America. But some need to. The current rules offering the possibility
of asylum to those who cannot find safety at home are both tough and humane. Mr.
Ashcroft should preserve them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: IRAQI-AMERICANS;
Immigrants Questioned By F.B.I.

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM with NICK MADIGAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 743 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, March 21


F.B.I. agents fanned out today in cities across the country, seeking to
interview thousands of Iraqi immigrants, particularly those with military or
technical backgrounds.

Officials said they had contacted nearly 3,000 Iraqi-born people in the United
States since the start of the war to track down any leads they may have about
possible sleeper-cell plots connected to the war. Altogether, they said they
hoped to contact about 11,000 Iraqi-born people in the United States.

"We're basically asking them if they are aware of any whispered rumors about
someone being up to no good," said an agent involved in the canvassing who spoke
on the condition of anonymity.

Dawn Clenney, a special agent at the F.B.I. office in the Detroit area, said
agents were planning to interview about 400 Iraqi immigrants in Michigan, mostly
in the Detroit area. "We hope to have it wrapped up in a few days," Ms. Clenney
said. Several hundred more are also being interviewed in Southern California.

F.B.I. officials emphasized that the interviews focused exclusively on Iraqi
immigrants, as opposed to Iraqi-Americans. But at least one United States
citizen, Samey Jawad, 48, of Hacienda Heights, Calif., said he was interviewed
on Thursday evening.

"Most of my friends are against Saddam Hussein," Mr. Jawad said he told the four
agents who interviewed him. "I told them I support the war as long as we get rid
of Saddam Hussein. I told them they disappoint the Iraqi people when they didn't
get rid of him in '91."

Mr. Jawad, an importer of electronic equipment who has lived in the United
States for 20 years, said F.B.I. agents visited him in 1991 during the Persian
Gulf war. On both occasions, he said, the agents were polite and asked him if he
knew anyone in Iraq who might be opposed to the presence of American troops.

Officials said the interviews were voluntary.

"They do not have to talk to us," Ms. Clenney said. "We are not out arresting
people. We have some intelligence information we want to obtain, and that's why
we are doing these. They can bring a friend, family member or a lawyer. We are
going out with hat in hand."

In Detroit, community leaders reacted with apprehension and support. Some were
impressed that Willie T. Hulon, the new special agent in charge of the local
F.B.I. office, was aggressively courting them and had laid out the agency's
plans in phone conversations. Others were weary of the continuing scrutiny of
people of Middle Eastern descent and nervous about the prospect of federal
agents showing up unannounced.

"Most immigrants feel a sadness, as if this cloud of uncertainty is on top of
all Arab Americans now," said Nabih Ayad, a lawyer who was present at two
interviews of Iraqi immigrants by F.B.I. agents today.

Mr. Ayad said that agents asked when his clients had been in Iraq, what work
they had done there, whether they had served in the military and whether they
had family there.

He said the agents also asked: "If you were in the military, what did you do?
What areas of the country were you familiar with? What areas of the country were
you familiar with here? What were the names of your family members? What are
their occupations? Did they know any Iraqi intelligence officers?"

Saad Marouf, chairman of the Chaldean Federation of America, an umbrella
organization of Iraqi Christians in the Detroit area, said that Mr. Hulon told
him that agents were interested in people in the technology field, especially
"if they have been associated with the chemical or biological programs."

"Or, do they know of any people in the United States that have been associated
with that who might retaliate against the U.S.?" he said they had asked.

Advance notice was a concern for many groups, who noted that when thousands of
Arab men were questioned after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, they were first
warned in letters.

Ms. Clenney said, "We had time to plan for that then." This time, "we don't have
the luxury of time. We're at war right now."

Bassam al-Hussaini, a mechanical engineer who was born in Baghdad and moved to
the United States in 1982, said that he and other members of the Iraqi-American
community in Southern California were distressed about the interviews.

"We are very upset," said Mr. Hussaini, who lives in San Dimas, 20 miles east of
downtown Los Angeles. "We don't want to be targeted because of our ethnicity."

"We ran away from the Iraqi regime," he said, "because of the human rights
violations there."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Prosecutors Charge Man In Money-Laundering Scheme

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 382 words


Federal prosecutors in Manhattan said yesterday that they had broken up a
Pakistani money-laundering operation that was being run from the basement of a
restaurant in Midtown Manhattan.

Prosecutors said that at least some of the money being sent overseas came from
drug trafficking. The operation was run out of the basement of the Kashmir
restaurant, on Eighth Avenue and 39th Street.

The United States attorney's office in Manhattan said it had charged Shaheen
Khalid Butt with money laundering, operating an unlicensed money transfer
business, currency reporting violations, and conspiring in immigration fraud.

Prosecutors said that Mr. Butt's unlicensed business, called Manhattan Foreign
Exchange, sent more than $2 million to Pakistan between December 2001 and last
month.

Before that, a criminal complaint indicates, the business operated through a
licensed money-transfer business, and sent more than $33 million to Pakistan.
That made it one of the New York area's largest remitters of money to that
country, the complaint said.

Three people were arrested in addition to Mr. Butt. One was charged with
operating an unlicensed money remitting business, and the others were charged in
the immigration fraud conspiracy.

Drew Houlihan, a federal agent, said in the complaint that he and other agents
"observed numerous individuals making frequent deliveries of cash" to the
exchange, "often in large amounts."

The United States attorney in Manhattan, James B. Comey, said the arrests
stemmed from an 18-month undercover investigation of Manhattan Foreign Exchange
that was part of a national task force investigating terrorist financing.

The investigation resulted in other arrests around the country, officials said.

Michael J. Garcia, a senior official who oversees the new Bureau of Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, said, "By dismantling these illegal networks, we are
denying avenues for terrorist groups to raise and move funds in this country."

Mr. Butt's connection to the Kashmir restaurant could not immediately be
established. Telephone calls to Manhattan Foreign Exchange and the restaurant
were unanswered. Mr. Butt's lawyer did not return a phone call seeking comment
last night.

Mr. Butt was released on $500,000 bond yesterday in United States District Court
in Manhattan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pakistani and Saudi Men Find Long Lines for Registration

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 572 words


It was the final day for Pakistani and Saudi men in the United States to
register with immigration authorities, and hundreds went to 26 Federal Plaza in
Lower Manhattan yesterday displaying a grim resignation.

There, at the Jacob K. Javits Federal Building, they stood in long lines,
crowded into nondescript waiting rooms, produced documents, filled out
questionnaires, answered questions and had their pictures and fingerprints
taken.

"We don't think there is anything wrong with this," said Sheraz Malik, 28, who
came to register along with his three younger brothers; all have lived in the
United States since they were children.

"We understand that this is necessary for security," Mr. Malik said. "I'm just
afraid of being detained and sent back to Pakistan."

It was a scene that has been playing out for months across the country under a
federal policy that requires male noncitizens 16 and older who come from certain
Arab and Muslim countries to register with immigration authorities.

The countries have been divided into four groups; Pakistan and Saudi Arabia were
in the third.

Men from the last group of countries -- Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Jordan and
Kuwait -- must register by April 25.

The men, many arriving yesterday with wives, friends or lawyers to help them
through the long process, are required to provide the names and addresses of
parents and American contacts, information about when and where they entered the
country and their status, and various forms of identification.

According to Mark Thorn, the New York spokesman for the Bureau of Citizenship
and Immigration Services, which handles immigrant benefits, 101,589 people have
complied with the requirements nationwide. Of those, 1,854 are being temporarily
detained and 87 are in custody, though most of those are eligible to be released
on bond.

The bureau could not provide local statistics, but the stories of overnight
detentions and deportation proceedings are so frightening that many men are not
registering, immigrants' advocates and lawyers said. Some have been leaving the
country while others are simply remaining here.

Mohsin Mushtaq, a 19-year-old high school student, said he arrived to register
about 6 a.m. on Tuesday and did not have his initial screening until that
evening.

Mr. Mushtaq, who said his visitor's visa had expired, was then taken to an
investigations unit on the 10th floor and held in a locked room with about 35
other men until the next evening.

They were given little to eat, and their first offering contained meat that the
men could not eat because they are Muslim, Mr. Mushtaq said; they could not call
their families and they were often treated rudely, he said. Some of the men
broke down in tears.

"I just want to be able to stay and study," he said. "It was like a jail. Why
they have to do that to us, because we're Muslim or we're Pakistani? It was just
like we were animals."

Immigration lawyers also say that many of the men being questioned are heads of
households and that it is unclear what will happen to their families if they are
deported.

"I'm scared," said Mr. Malik's wife, Denise, an American citizen who is 22 years
old and five months pregnant. She was trying to put on a brave face for her
husband, who had abandoned his effort to obtain a green card because of a
conflict with his father, now in Pakistan.

Still, Mrs. Malik said, "He goes to Pakistan and my world's going to crumble."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Pakistani and Saudi men, many accompanied by relatives, waited
in long lines yesterday to register with immigration authorities in Lower
Manhattan. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            March 22, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Women Seeking Asylum

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 141 words


To the Editor:

Re "Asylum for Abused Women" (editorial, March 19):

The idea that the Department of Justice is considering the abolition of
gender-based asylum guidelines is an affront to this country's longstanding
tradition of safe haven.

In failing to recognize that women have been abused on account of gender and
that the refusal to protect them from this abuse amounts to persecution within
the purview of the Immigration and Nationality Act, the United States would
exhibit gross ignorance of the plight of women in the third world.

Many women are subject to honor killings, female genital mutilation and other
practices that pass for "tradition" but are persecution.

CHRISTINE FLOWERS
Philadelphia, March 20, 2003

The writer is co-chairwoman of the asylum liaison committee, Philadelphia
chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 23, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: FOREIGN STUDENTS;
Problems Slow Tracking of Students From Abroad

BYLINE:  By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 22


A new electronic system to track foreign students at American schools and
universities, presented as a cornerstone of the response to lapses in the
student visa system after Sept. 11, 2001, is riddled with computer malfunctions
and other problems, university officials and the inspector general of the
Justice Department say.

On Wednesday, the House Science Committee will hold a hearing on visa backlogs
for foreign students and scholars, as well as irregularities in the student
tracking system.

The chief lobbyist for the American Council on Education, Terry W. Hartle,
called the tracking system an unmitigated disaster.

In a report released last week, Inspector General Glenn A. Fine found that the
Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, successor to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, had failed to certify 893 schools and universities by
its deadline, Feb. 15, and that it had inadequate oversight of contractors hired
to visit schools to determine whether they were authentic educational
institutions.

The report noted that officials at the immigration bureau said they had met a
congressionally imposed deadline, Jan. 30, to establish the Student and Exchange
Visitor Information System, or Sevis, because they had made a Web site,
www.immigration.gov/graphics/services/tempbenefits/sevp.htm, that schools could
visit.

"However," the report said, "we believe that full implementation includes not
only technical availability," but also verifying that only real schools are
approved to accept foreign students, that employees at schools and the
immigration agency know how to use the system, that mechanisms exist to identify
fraud and suspicious cases and that thebureau has procedures to respond to
warning signs.

A spokesman for the bureau, Chris Bentley, said that it considered the system
"fully functional" and that employees were correcting problems as they arose.
Employees, Mr. Bentley said, are training contractors to collect all the
necessary information on their school visits to reduce delays in approvals.

University officials said that for every problem they addressed, two more arose.
At Georgetown University, Katherine S. Bellows, director of the office of
international students and scholar services, said that when workers recently
tried to print computerized information on exchange students, they came up with
forms from the University of Delaware. Georgetown tried again, but came up with
the Young Men's Christian Association.

"Every time we went back, another place came up," Ms. Bellows said.

She said she had recently told employees to stop entering information into the
system, because it was not accepting draft student profiles.

"Some people are really downplaying these problems," Ms. Bellows said. "But the
issue is that this is not reliable. It doesn't seem to be working effectively or
efficiently."

Victor Johnson, associate executive for public policy of the Association of
International Educators, said the immigration bureau was doing as well as could
be expected. The problem, Mr. Johnson said, is the unrealistic deadlines set by
Congress and speeded up after the Sept. 11 attacks. He added that the 550,000
foreigners who have entered the United States to attend schools and
universities, those covered by the new tracking system, accounted for 2 percent
of legal immigrants.

"There are students out of status all over this country due to the fact that
it's impossible to enter their data," Mr. Johnson said. "They're in a very
vulnerable position."

Last week, F.B.I. agents arrested a student from Thailand at Southeastern
University here after the university mistakenly reported that she had dropped
out and then could not correct the error after it had been entered.

A report in The Chicago Tribune detailed numerous problems with the new system
at other universities.

Congress began focusing on lapses in student visas after the first World Trade
Center bombing, in 1993. Sept. 11 exposed more disarray, with the I.N.S. issuing
student visas for two of the hijackers to attend flight school six months after
they had destroyed the World Trade Center.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Korean? Spoken Here?;
2 Affluent Areas of Queens Adjust to a New Ethnic Mix

BYLINE:   By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1196 words


In the prosperous Queens neighborhoods of Douglaston and Little Neck, where the
number of Asian immigrants has more than doubled in 12 years, there are many
tales of how the American mill of assimilation works its special grace.

A champion ballroom dancer from Seoul is giving tango and rumba lessons to the
neighborhood's longtime residents. A Fujianese immigrant has opened a Chinese
restaurant that is not only vegetarian but also kosher, availing himself of the
help of Jewish neighbors in getting a rabbinical certificate. And on Sunday
afternoons, the area's leading Episcopal church rents its sanctuary to a small
Korean congregation.

Yet it would be wrong to conclude that the melting pot in Douglaston and Little
Neck is without its lumps.

There are, for example, persistent murmurs of displeasure from established
residents who say they do not feel welcome in many of the Korean-owned shops
along Northern Boulevard that were once owned by Irish, Italian, German and
Jewish merchants. What particularly chafes are the proliferation of large signs
in Korean, some with no English explanation of what is sold.

"The perception is that these businesses are serving their own people," Paula
Gerber, office manager of a real estate agency on the boulevard, said. "They're
not realizing that when you're on the street you're supposed to be serving
everyone."

There has also been discomfort with the growth of Korean churches, one of which,
Eun Hae Presbyterian, is being built to hold 494 worshipers but will have just
32 parking spaces.

Neighborhoods like Little Neck and Douglaston are worth watching because they
are laboratories for the second stage in the cycle of Asian immigration. Asians
who started out in crowded Chinatown in dawn-to-midnight jobs in restaurants,
garment factories and groceries, and may have moved up to the more decorous
apartments of Flushing, are now thriving enough to penetrate the city's leafiest
precincts.

Little Neck and Douglaston are right across a small cove from Great Neck, on
Long Island. Houses range from $450,000 to $3 million. Douglas Manor, an enclave
of 600 graceful houses in Douglaston, was known as late as the 1950's as a white
Protestant neighborhood where Jews were discouraged from buying houses, local
leaders say.

In the past decade, Asians have been drawn to Douglaston and Little Neck by the
area's suburban tidiness and low taxes and by the top-rated public schools of
Community School District 26. In 1990, 11.6 percent of the two neighborhoods'
23,000 residents were Asian. By 2000, 23 percent were Asian, mostly Korean and
Chinese. Even the population of Douglas Manor is 8 to 10 percent Asian, said
Bernard Haber, a former president of Community Board 11.

Dr. Pyong Gap Min, a professor of sociology at Queens College and a Korean
immigrant, said Chinese immigrants had been more willing to wade into the
American mainstream because they were more fragmented by their languages --
Mandarin, Cantonese and Fujianese -- and origins -- Taiwan, mainland China and
Hong Kong. Almost all the Koreans are from South Korea and speak the same
language. Because the Chinese are a more established immigrant group, many
Chinese who do well enough to make it to places like Douglaston and Little Neck
are second-generation and already comfortably American.

"It's very difficult for Koreans to get involved in American organizations
because they are so strongly tied to their ethnic network," Dr. Min said.

Little Neck and Douglaston are not alone in feeling some tension from
immigration. Palisades Park, N.J., responded to its Asian influx with a law
requiring that half of any foreign-language sign be in English.

Along Northern Boulevard in Little Neck, Korean business owners say that signs
entirely in Korean are not intended to offend anyone, but reflect the reality
that the customers are almost exclusively Korean. Young Kim, a merchant who
speaks little English, said, "Our problem is English." She draws native-born
customers to Ladykin Salon, which she owns, by letting them show her magazine
pictures of the hair styles they want.

Northern Boulevard's transformation has been hard for the merchants and
residents who have clung wistfully to old pictures of the neighborhood. Frank
Mockler, 75, has felt the neighborhood's changes in Patrick's Pub and The
Claddagh Shop, his Irish imports store near the Great Neck line. Thirty-eight
years ago, when he started out, Mr. Mockler said, half the neighborhood was
"Irish and English," and in his prime years he used to sell 5,000 Irish coffees
a week at the pub. Now he sells about 1,000. "You don't get the local people,"
he said.

Still, there are many wisps of congeniality between old-timers and newcomers.

Douglaston's Zion Episcopal Church rents its sanctuary on Sunday afternoons to a
Korean Presbyterian congregation of perhaps 40 families, the Great Commission
Church. The Koreans pay $12,000 to $14,000 a year. A footnote at the bottom of
Zion's signboards alerts passers-by that a Korean congregation is "also
worshiping here."

The Rev. Patrick J. Holtkamp, Zion's rector, said the church rejected the Korean
group's request for a separate sign in Korean. Zion wanted to project the image
of a congregation on the rise, as it is, rather than one biding its time before
selling out to its Korean renters, the fate of many shrinking Protestant
churches in Flushing and Bayside. Zion's congregation has doubled in 12 years to
200 families.

The two congregations have held several joint services, but Father Holtkamp
acknowledged that there was little social interaction, mostly, he said, because
of the language barrier.

Two years ago, Yihung Li, 45, an immigrant from China's Fujian province, decided
to open a vegetarian Chinese restaurant near his Little Neck home, and because
northeastern Queens has many Jewish residents, he decided to make it kosher. The
Jewish neighbors he had befriended helped him find a rabbi to certify the
restaurant. So entangled has he become in the American ethnic blender that last
summer he was host of a naming party for a Chinese baby girl adopted by two gay
Jewish men.

"We talk to each other," Mr. Li said of his American friends. Though it does not
go much deeper than that, he said, "if you help each other when you need it,
that is good enough."

Sehyoung Jang, 28, a champion ballroom dancer who grew up in Seoul, opened a
dance hall, Tri-State, a year ago.

There he teaches neighborhood residents everything from the fox trot to salsa.

"I want to put Korean and American people together," Mr. Jang said. "If they can
dance together and hold hands there will be more relationships. When you dance
you don't care about country or culture."

Douglaston's venerable 108-member Garden Club and in its civic association also
have a few Asian members.

Sam Furgang, owner of an antiques shop on Northern Boulevard, predicted that
even the tempest over the signs, which he said was silly, would pass as future
generations blend in.

"My father came here and settled on the Lower East Side," Mr. Furgang said. "I
see pictures of that time and the signs were all in Yiddish. But the Jews got
out of there. So go find me a Yiddish sign there now."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 28, 2003



CORRECTION: An article on Tuesday about the changing ethnic makeup of two
northeastern Queens neighborhoods misstated the religious affiliation of one
member of a gay couple who chose to hold a naming ceremony at a kosher Chinese
restaurant for the daughter they adopted. Only one of the men is Jewish; the
other is Protestant.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Frank Mockler, 75, owner of Patrick's Pub, used to sell 5,000
Irish coffees a week. Now he sells about 1,000, a reflection of the changes in
the neighborhood.; Sehyoung Jang, 28, bridges the cultural gap with dance. Some
residents find shop signs in Korean unwelcoming; owners say that is not their
intention. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times) Map of Queens, New
York highlighting Douglaston: Low taxes and top-rated schools have drawn Asians
to the area. (pg. D5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 25, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jersey City Journal;
Fresh Fish Can't Last Forever

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 974 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY, March 22


There is a place at the entrance to the Holland Tunnel where striped bass swim
in large fish tanks, Dungeness crabs thrash about, freshly cut bok choy glistens
and pigs feet sit in neat rows. Chinese immigrants who go there are reminded of
the open markets of home, Indian immigrants recall the mom-and-pop grocery
stores of Bombay, and Korean immigrants remember street fairs in the
countryside.

The place is Foodmart International, a bustling Asian emporium in the Newport
neighborhood. Its hulking, boxlike structure is like that of any American
supermarket. Inside, instead of many varieties of Hershey's chocolate, customers
can choose from hundreds of South Asian spices and a dozen kinds of basmati
rice.

But the often-bustling store, in business for nearly five years, will close
within one or two months, and the reasons remain an upsetting mystery to the
burgeoning Asian population in Newport.

"Gosh, I'll probably move out of here once my lease finishes later this year,"
said Robert Shi, a Chinese immigrant who works in an investment firm in downtown
Manhattan and buys all his groceries at Foodmart. "I'll have to go to Chinatown
to do grocery shopping. I might as well just move back into the city."

Little more than a decade ago, Newport was a labyrinth of deserted train tracks,
forlorn freight cars and abandoned factory buildings. Now, more than 10,000
people live in the neighborhood's 11 high-rises. And according to a survey by
the Lefrak Organization, the main developer of the area, more than 85 percent of
those residents work in Manhattan, many of them young professionals in banking,
law and technology.

More than half the residents in Newport are Asian immigrants, according to
Lefrak's leasing office there, and many were lured to Newport by its waterfront
views, easy access to New York City and rents slightly lower than those in
Manhattan.

The developer has been trying to make the neighborhood more upscale. It has
brought in a Cosi sandwich shop, a fancy bar and grill and an expensive floral
shop.

Foodmart sits on a lot owned by Lefrak. When Jamie LeFrak, a managing director
at the company, was asked why an agreement could not be worked out with
Foodmart, he said in a written statement that he was not sure that Foodmart
could meet the "technical criteria for tenancy." Lefrak representatives, in
later telephone calls, would not elaborate.

In late February, the Jersey City Planning Board approved an application by the
Target Corporation to open a store at the Foodmart location, and members of the
board said they welcomed the change. Michelle Alonso, Jersey City's city
planner, said Foodmart had neglected to replace dead trees in its parking lot
and a broken neon sign on its facade.

Lewis Wu, Foodmart's owner, did not return several calls to the store and his
home.

Lefrak has already signed a lease with Target, the Minneapolis-based retail
chain, which is expected to open its Newport store in spring 2004. A spokesman
for Target, Douglas Kline, said the company would not comment now. "We don't
comment until much further into the process, when details are finalized and
construction has begun," he said.

In his statement, Mr. LeFrak said that according to a survey done by his
company, 82 percent of Newport's residents said they wanted a Target store in
the area.

But at Foodmart, residents who said they had filled out the survey said a Target
store would be great, but not at the expense of their neighborhood market.

"Who needs a Target, when we have Macy's, Sears, J. C. Penny and a large mall
right next door?" said Charles Jin, another resident, noting the nearby Newport
Center Mall.

For Gerry DePoalo, who loves egg rolls and dumplings, the departure of Foodmart
would mean a trek to Manhattan or Fort Lee, the heavily Asian town on the
western end of the George Washington Bridge.

"Target will be a good addition," he said, "but not as a replacement for
Foodmart."

Others, like Nicole and Graeme Coll, both immigrants from South Africa, said
they would love to have a Target store nearby.

"It's great," Mrs. Coll said. "The area really needs a Target. They sell very
different stuff from Macy's or Sears."

As the news of Foodmart's impending demise spreads through the Lefrak-owned
buildings, tenants can be found in hallways and elevators, discussing ways to
thwart the management's plan.

Should they sign a petition? Should they call Lefrak? How about the Planning
Board? Many of these tenants are Asian immigrants, unaccustomed to
American-style democracy and civil activism, and not sure which course of action
to choose.

And Asian residents who moved to the neighborhood to be close to Foodmart are
now regretting their decision.

When Shulian Lu immigrated with her husband from Hong Kong to the New York area
more than a year ago, she wanted to find an apartment that would afford her the
ease of grocery shopping she had at home. After a friend took her to Foodmart,
she decided to move into an apartment nearby.

"I absolutely fell in love with the store," said Ms. Lu, who came to the store
recently to show her 6-month-old daughter the live fish and crabs. "Where else
can you find so many kinds of fresh fish?"

(How many kinds? Here is just a sampling: mackerel, mullet, pompano, tachi-uo,
tilapia, grouper, halibut, cod, , snapper, flounder, jacks, smelts, milkfish,
catfish, striped bass and bluefish.)

And for Fenil Patel, an architect, and his wife, Linsy, both from India,
shopping at the supermarket is a Sunday ritual. On a recent Sunday, the couple,
who are vegetarians, loaded up on eight kinds of Indian, Thai, Malaysian, Korean
and Chinese seasonings. For dinner that night, they said they would cook bean
sprouts with Chinese egg noodles.

"This is the only place where you can get fresh tofu and Chinese vegetables,"
Mrs. Patel said. "Where are we going to go from now on?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fenil, left, and Linsy Patel will have to go elsewhere for
spices if Foodmart is replaced by a Target store. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 30, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

IN PERSON;
For Hispanics, Bridges Built by One Who Crossed Them

BYLINE:  By DIANA MARSZALEK

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1224 words


WHEN Martha Lopez-Hanratty moved to Mamaroneck from Mexico City nearly 30 years
ago, she was filled with the hopes of a 17-year-old in a new place filled with
possibilities.

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty graduated from Mamaroneck High School and enrolled at the
College of New Rochelle. Both were big feats for a girl from a poor Mexico City
neighborhood who saw her future in the United States.

Her subsequent journey as recent immigrant, however, was sometimes rocky. After
marrying and leaving college before graduation, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty and her
husband struggled to make ends meet.

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's hardships were magnified further several years later when
she and her husband divorced. She worked more than one job at a time to provide
for her two young sons.

Not much has changed for Westchester's Hispanic immigrants, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty
said.

And she should know. As the county's program administrator for Hispanic affairs,
one of Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's main goals is to make the transition from new
immigrant to productive resident of Westchester a little easier for the area's
burgeoning Hispanic population.

"Many times we come here without an education and without being able to speak
the language," Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said."That makes life difficult."

Those challenges, along with more widespread hardships like a lack of affordable
housing and a scarcity of jobs, make starting out life in Westchester
particularly difficult for Hispanic immigrants, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said.

Taking time to learn English and get plugged into area communities is hard for
immigrants when there are rents to pay and families to feed, she said.

"There is a long learning curve, yet people are trying to make ends meet," Ms.
Lopez-Hanratty said.

It's a cycle that has afflicted immigrants for generations, she said.

"Some people say to me, 'Oh, you've been here for 30 years, things were easy
back then,"' Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said. "Believe me. Things were not easy. And if
you ask immigrants from other backgrounds, you will find that they faced the
same situations."

But Ms. Lopez-Hanratty never gave up hope or her desire to succeed. Instead, she
started volunteering and working with local nonprofit agencies once her children
started school.

Through her activities, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty connected with local individuals,
including the executive director of an agency for low-income housing who gave
her a job. Eventually, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty enrolled at Lehman College in the
Bronx, earning a degree in sociology.

Today, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty tries to make the experience of being a new immigrant
in Westchester County a little easier.

As Westchester's program administrator for Hispanic affairs, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty
works to make sure that new immigrants are aware of the services and
opportunities available -- and that county leaders know the challenges facing
the new immigrants.

County Executive Andrew J. Spano said that having Ms. Lopez-Hanratty as his
chief adviser on Hispanic affairs -- the first person in the newly expanded role
for which she makes about $63,000 a year -- is a crucial step in reaching out to
Hispanics, the county's fastest growing group of residents. Hispanics now make
up 15 percent of the population.

"Ms. Lopez-Hanratty, who has held the job for nearly two years, is the right
person for the position because of her extensive experience working with the
community -- as well as being part of it," Mr. Spano said. "I'm taking advice
from her."

One of Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's goals is to further the county's relationships with
area schools.

Her office also addresses health care, affordable housing, employment and
cultural issues such as whether county parks provide enough soccer fields, which
are popular among Hispanic residents.

With the county's support, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's office is about to start up its
own Web site detailing the available multicultural services -- one of the few
such bilingual Web sites.

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty also works with other county departments, resulting in
community services like a monthly bilingual newsletter that is sent to agencies
and individuals, and a daylong conference on money management that will be
presented in Spanish as well as English.

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty operates from her office in the county building. Miniature
flags representing the world's spanish-speaking countries decorate a ledge
behind her desk. Her wall is adorned with the proclamations and community
service awards that she has garnered throughout her career. A photograph
depicting children of many colors hangs on a wall. Its caption reads "making a
difference."

That caption reflects Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's philosophy and outreach efforts that
have gained her support among colleagues and individuals.

Vivian Sebastian, a teacher with the Even Start family literacy program inSleepy
Hollow and volunteer with the American Red Cross who has worked with Ms.
Lopez-Hanratty on a number of projects, said Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's work at the
county level has greatly improved the access Hispanics have to services.

"She's opened doors to not just me," Ms. Sebastian said, "but to a lot of
program leaders. She is available to be the bridge."

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty's efforts will be recognized in June, when she receives an
award from the Y.W.C.A. of White Plains and Central Westchester for outstanding
achievement by a woman in government.

Jackie Ramos-Calderon, the program director for the Encore Program at the
Y.W.C.A., an outreach program that aims to help uninsured and minority women,
said Ms. Lopez-Hanratty has gained widespread respect in the community,
evidenced by number of the award nominations Ms. Ramos-Calderon received from
several area agencies in support of Ms. Lopez-Hanratty.

"We can do so many things together for this population," Ms. Ramos-Calderon
said.

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said these efforts are important to get across the message
that local authorities are resources for immigrants, many of whom have come from
countries without stable governments

Recent immigrants need to know about benefits like free health insurance for
children, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said, and of ways of cutting public transportation
costs.

"The Latino community comes from countries where governments are not seen as
very inviting," she said. "When I go into the community to talk to people they
often will ask me what the catch is. But we are making connections and people
are starting to reach out to us."

The way Ms. Lopez-Hanratty sees it, her own early involvement with community
groups opened doors for her. Her first job, with the Washingtonville Housing
Alliance in Mamaroneck, evolved into her being its assistant director.

Ms. Lopez-Hanratty will receive her master's degree in social work from Columbia
University this spring. She has also helped start an afterschool program serving
latch-key children and a resource center in Mamaroneck for new immigrants.

"What motivated me when I came to this country was seeing people involved with
the community," she said. "I thought America prospered because everyone cared so
much."

Still, Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said, life as a newcomer in Westchester is not easy,
particularly when housing is expensive, jobs are scarce and there are cultural
barriers to break.

"Not everything is given to you on a platter," Ms. Lopez-Hanratty said. "But I
am a dreamer. And I think there is a future for anyone."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martha Lopez-Hanratty says the struggle of learning a language
while feeding a family has afflicted generations of immigrants. (George M.
Gutierrez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             March 31, 2003 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: THE DETAINEES;
Immigration Groups Fault Rule on Automatic Detention of Some Asylum Seekers

BYLINE:   By CHRISTOPHER DREW and ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1400 words


The Bush administration's decision to detain people from Iraq and 32 other
countries who are seeking political asylum in the United States has raised
concerns among United Nations officials and immigration groups, who say such
blanket detentions may violate international norms and could undercut America's
traditional role as a beacon for the oppressed.

Homeland Security Department officials said that the decision, made right before
the war in Iraq, was a precaution to keep terrorists from slipping into the
United States, the latest in a series of steps to tighten monitoring of
foreigners since the Sept. 11 attacks. They pointed to several cases in which
terrorists came to this country through asylum applications, particularly Omar
Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian sheik who was convicted in 1995 of conspiring to blow
up the United Nations headquarters and other landmarks in New York.

But critics, including some former top immigration officials, say they fear that
policies governing asylum in the United States, the world's most powerful magnet
for refugees, are being weakened in the administration's move to treat
immigration as more of a national security issue than a social and demographic
one.

The change in asylum rules, announced on March 17 by Homeland Security Secretary
Tom Ridge, is part of an operation that includes heightened security patrols at
points of entry and in major cities, and F.B.I. interviews with more than 11,000
Iraqi-born people in this country. People who enter the United States seeking
asylum from countries on a list of those where Al Qaeda or other terrorist
groups are known to operate will now be automatically detained while their
applications are considered, a process that takes six months or more. Before,
asylum-seekers were held beyond an initial screening only on a case-by-case
basis.

Only about 600 refugees from the 33 countries, mostly in the Middle East and
South Asia, passed initial screenings for asylum at the border last year. Given
the added security after the Sept. 11 attacks, many of them were detained.

The department, however, has generated confusion by refusing to identify
publicly the countries covered under the new detention rule, citing law
enforcement and diplomatic sensitivities.

Civil rights groups have pieced together the list through informal contacts with
government officials. They contend that even if only a relatively few people are
affected directly, the change could send a chilling message to tens of thousands
of refugees all over the world, some of whom have been fighting to come to the
United States for years.

"It's clearly ironic that on the eve of a war to liberate the Iraqi people, we
are telling people that those fleeing tyranny there will be deprived of their
liberty for extended periods when they arrive here," said Eleanor Acer, the
director of the asylum program at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, in New
York.

United Nations officials reacted swiftly to the new policy. In a letter to
American authorities, Ruud Lubbers, the United Nations' high commissioner for
refugees, said, "The tendency to link asylum seekers and refugees to terrorism
is a dangerous and erroneous one." The United Nations has long suggested that it
is wrong to arbitrarily detain refugees.

Doris Meissner, the federal immigration commissioner from 1993 to 2000, said the
change was similar to other blanket policies imposed by the Bush administration.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, more than 1,200 people from Arab countries were
detained on immigration violations, and the administration required most of the
deportation hearings to be held in secret rather than allowing immigration
judges to decide whether the secrecy was warranted.

"There is a propensity in this administration to establish blanket policies that
prejudge guilt based on country of origin," said Ms. Meissner, now a senior
fellow at the Migration Policy Institute. "Those countries of origin are all
Arab or Muslim countries, and it's sending the wrong message," she added. "It is
not improving our safety and security because it's too blunt an instrument, and
it feeds a view of the United States abroad that we are simply against, and are
going to do everything we can to harm, people in and around the Middle East."

Homeland Security officials countered that there had been at least three
examples of terrorists who were in the United States under the cover of asylum
applications. William Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration services
within the department, said that aside from Mr. Rahman, they included Mir Aimal
Kansi, who killed two employees of the Central Intelligence Agency outside the
agency's headquarters in 1993, and Gazi Ibrahim Abu Mezer, who was convicted on
1997 charges of plotting to bomb New York subways.

"You see what a quandary this places us in," Mr. Strassberger said. "We feel
strongly that we want to preserve the ability of people to seek refuge here. But
at the same time, we have to protect the public, and we do have heightened
concerns about individuals coming from some specific countries."

"The thinking is that we don't know who they are," he added. "So although we
will detain them while we find that out, there will be no change in their
ability to come here and file a claim of asylum."

David A. Martin, who was the general counsel for the immigration service during
the Clinton administration, also said the new policy might be appropriate. "A
categorical deterrence policy is in general a legitimate rationale," Mr. Martin
said. "In a time of war and a time of risk, to impose it by nationality is
defensible."

The latest change comes after nearly a decade of government efforts to tighten
the asylum process. The early 1990's had a surge in asylum requests after word
spread that work permits were available to anyone who applied for asylum. Since
immigration officials dropped that promise in 1995, the number of asylum
requests has fallen to 65,000 a year from 150,000.

The new detention rule applies only to people arriving at a border or point of
entry, not to refugees already in the United States.

In the past, once people filed asylum applications at the border, officials held
them for at least two days while conducting a relatively cursory screening to
see if they had a credible fear of persecution. Most applicants passed that test
and then could ask to be released while their cases were studied further.

Mr. Strassberger estimated that 80 percent of the people who passed the
screening were released within 90 days. But the Lawyers Committee found that
even before the Sept. 11 attacks, the release rate was actually 10 percent to 40
percent.

One Sudanese woman, who said she had fled to the United States to escape slavery
that she lived under in Kenya for 14 years, said she was handcuffed, placed in
leg shackles and paraded through the Newark International Airport after she
filed for asylum in November 2001.

The woman said she spent five months of the first cold winter she had ever known
at a detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., with one light blanket and little hot
water. Guards who were women watched when she showered.

"You almost get suicidal in those facilities," said the woman, who was not
released until her asylum request was approved. "It is a hard choice, being
treated like really hard-core criminals."

The Lawyers Committee says the 33 countries included in the new rule are:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Morocco, Oman,
Pakistan, Philippines, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Thailand,
Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, United Arab Emirates, Uzbekistan and
Yemen.

Palestinian asylum seekers from Gaza and the West Bank will also face automatic
detention.

Given Mr. Hussein's oppressive regime, Iraqi refugees typically have gained
asylum more easily than other people. Still, one Iraqi woman who requested
asylum before the recent rule change said she feared that the heightened
scrutiny could have a spinoff effect and lead to delays in approving her
application and those of other people from the Middle East.

Referring to the automatic detention of new applicants, the woman, who was once
jailed for a month in Iraq, said, "That's horrible. It's not much different than
what I went though in Baghdad."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2003



CORRECTION: An article on Monday about the Bush administration's decision to
detain asylum seekers from Iraq and 32 other countries referred incompletely to
opinions of David A. Martin, former general counsel of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. While he said that temporary detention of asylum seekers
from certain countries was defensible in wartime, he opposes discouraging such
people from seeking asylum.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Eyes on the United States"Citizens from these countries
seeking asylum in the United States will be automatically detained. Case data
from the I.N.S. was available for 10 countries from April 1991 to September
2002. Graph tracks the status of the following countries cases as of Sept. 30,
2002 according to the whether the case is granted, denied, or pending:
LebanonAfghanistanBangladeshSudanIraqPhilippinesEgyptPakistanIranIndonesia Map
of the Middle East, Northern Africa, and South East Asia highlight the countries
from which asylum-seekers will automatically be detained. (Source: U.S.
Committee for Refugees)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 3, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words


An article on Monday about the Bush administration's decision to detain asylum
seekers from Iraq and 32 other countries referred incompletely to opinions of
David A. Martin, former general counsel of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. While he said that temporary detention of asylum seekers from certain
countries was defensible in wartime, he opposes discouraging such people from
seeking asylum.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 4, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: IMMIGRANT MARINES;
Latinos Gave Their Lives To New Land

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 3


Lance Cpl. Jose Gutierrez, 27, was among the first to die, in a tank battle
outside Umm Qasr on March 21.

Cpl. Jose Angel Garibay, 21, fell in combat near Nasiriya. Pfc. Francisco
Martinez Flores drowned when his tank plunged into the Euphrates River. Lance
Cpl. Jesus Suarez del Solar, 20, was killed on Saturday fighting with the First
Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion.

They had this in common: they were marines, and they were not Americans. They
died for a country not entirely theirs.

Corporal Gutierrez was an illegal immigrant from Guatemala, an orphan who made
his way through Mexico to the promised land of California and into the Marines.
His 3 fellow marines were Mexican by birth and citizenship, 3 among roughly
36,000 soldiers in the United States military but not of the United States --
green card holders and other legal residents who hope for full legal status as
American citizens.

Corporal Gutierrez's only survivor, his sister, Engracia Cirin, lives in a shack
without a telephone on the edge of Guatemala City. "It makes me sad," she told a
local reporter in Guatemala, "because he fought for something that wasn't his."

Corporal Gutierrez and Corporal Garibay will receive citizenship posthumously,
military officials said today.

The parents of Private Martinez and Corporal Suarez are unsure of their sons'
status as Americans. Private Martinez had filed for citizenship but his
application was not complete, military officials said. As for Corporal Suarez,
his father, Fernando, who brought him to California six years ago, when he was
14, said he thought his son would remain a Mexican in death.

Although public opinion in Mexico is running strongly against the war in Iraq,
dozens of Mexicans have been telephoning, e-mailing and walking up to the
American Embassy and its consular offices daily, asking about becoming Americans
by becoming soldiers. They are being turned away.

"Unless you are a U.S. citizen or a permanent legal resident, which is what most
are interested in becoming, you can't join up," said Jim Dickmeyer, an embassy
spokesman.

Hispanics, including those who have obtained legal residency and those who
already are citizens, represent about 9 percent of the uniformed military and
about 13 percent of the overall population of the United States. Among enlistees
in the all-volunteer army, roughly 5 percent have legal residency but not
American citizenship.

President Bush signed an executive order in July putting green card holders who
enlist in the military on a fast track to becoming Americans. The order
eliminated a three-year wait, let the soldiers seek citizenship immediately and
applied to anyone on active duty as of Sept. 11, 2001.

There are restrictions for soldiers who are not citizens: they cannot serve in
most intelligence units, nor in elite groups the like Green Berets. Nor can they
become commanders.

In Mexico and Central America, the story of Corporal Gutierrez has resonated
strongly. He was orphaned with his sister as a child, and worked as a laborer,
before being taken in by Casa Alianza, which works with street children in
Guatemala. Casa Alianza's files show he studied architecture before leaving for
the United States, apparently on foot and by hopping trains, in 1997.

He was arrested by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service in
1997, records show, but might have lied about his age, claiming he was 16, to
win his release. An adoptive family in Lomita, Calif., took him in. He joined
the Marines last year and was one of the first two marines killed in combat, on
March 21.

"We join Guatemalans in remembering Lance Corporal Gutierrez, who gave the
ultimate sacrifice in service to his adopted country," said John R. Hamilton,
the United States ambassador to Guatemala.

Corporal Garibay was born in Guadalajara. He enlisted as a marine three years
ago, at 18, and was killed on March 23. "Though he felt Mexican, he also loved
the United States, and that's why he enlisted, that's why he went to war," said
his sister, Azucena Barragan, in Costa Mesa, Calif. "He said he was coming back
a hero."

Private Flores, also born in Guadalajara, came to the United States in 1985,
aged 3. He died in combat March 25, apparently after his tank became lost in a
sandstorm and overturned into the Euphrates River. His mother, Martha Flores of
Duarte, Calif., said he thought his citizenship was coming through in a few
weeks. She added, "I only want all this anguish of the mothers of the soldiers
to end, tostop the suffering of broken families."

Corporal Suarez, born in Tijuana, came to California in 1997 and died somewhere
in Iraq on March 27. "I was a military man in Mexico, and I'm proud of him,"
said his father, Fernando, of Escondido, Calif. "Hopefully his death was in a
good cause and not in a war for oil."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: From left, Pfc. Francisco Martinez Flores, Cpl. Jose Angel
Garibay, Lance Cpl. Jose Gutierrez and Lance Cpl. Jesus Suarez del Solar. The
four, all in the Marines, died in separate events in the opening days of the war
in Iraq. Corporal Gutierrez was from Guatemala, the other three from Mexico.
(Photographs by Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              April 7, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Bad Asylum Policy

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 139 words


To the Editor:

Re "Immigration Groups Fault Rule on Automatic Detention of Some AsylumSeekers"
(news article, March 31):

The Bush administration's new policy to detain people from Iraq and 32 other
countries who are seeking political asylum in the United States is excessive.

American immigration law already authorizes the incarceration of noncitizens who
pose a risk to national security. The only additional people subject to
detention would be those for whom there is insufficient evidence to connect them
to terrorist activities, but who assert that they are refugees because they have
a well-founded fear of persecution upon return to certain home countries like
Iraq.

This is a selective and dubious form of preventive detention.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
New York, March 31, 2003

The writer is a senior fellow, Council on Foreign Relations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 12, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuba Executes 3 Who Tried to Reach U.S. in a Hijacking

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 11


After a swift and secret trial, the Cuban authorities executed at dawn today
three men who hijacked a ferry last week in a failed effort to reach the United
States, a Cuban government statement said.

Four other men who used a gun and knives to help commandeer the boat were given
life sentences, the statement said.

Although the death penalty has been infrequently applied in Cuba, the three
faced a firing squad after having been convicted of what the statement called a
"very grave acts of terrorism."

The executions came at the end of a week in which some 78 nonviolent dissidents
received prison terms ranging up to 28 years for conspiring with American
diplomats against the government.

The Cuban authorities, who said there had been seven hijackings in the last
seven months, have long been critical of American policies that they say
encourage illegal immigration. Human rights advocates, diplomats and American
lawmakers condemned the executions as excessively harsh and questioned the
motivation of the Cuban government.

"This is excessive in the extreme and raises the question as to whether or not
this is altogether rational," said Wayne S. Smith, once the top United States
diplomat in Havana. "It just goes too far. There is no rational, sensible
explanation."

Today's executions were believed to be the first in two years, said Curt
Goering, senior deputy executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A. He
said in a statement that the men had "almost certainly" been denied due process.

"These executions, combined with the harsh sentences handed down last week to a
number of recently arrested dissidents, is contributing to a climate of
repression that hasn't existed in Cuba since the 1960's," Mr. Goering said.

The sister of Jorge Luis Martinez Isaac, one of the executed hijackers, said
their mother had no idea he would face the firing squad today.

"The news they gave her today was, 'Your son is dead,' " the sister, Yordanis
Montoya, said in Miami, where she lives.

"When she learned he had been shot, she raced to the cemetery," she said. "When
she got there, she said, 'Down with Fidel,' and the police chased her away."

The executions came a day after the Cuban authorities said they had foiled a
hijacking attempt on the Isle of Youth. According to Granma, the Communist Party
newspaper, several men who assaulted a soldier and stole his assault rifle were
arrested last night near the airport.

The hijackings have angered Cuban officials, who feel that American policy not
only encourages illegal immigration but also is lenient on those who come here
by force. United States officials this week repeated that American courts would
prosecute anyone involved in a hijacking.

The Cuban authorities have been indignant, however, over the release on bail of
several men who hijacked a plane to Miami last month.

Some political analysts had wondered if the authorities had sought the harsh
sentences to deter any further hijackings, which could scare off already jittery
tourists. Caribbean tourism in general has been down since the outbreak of the
Iraq war, and Cuba's economy is heavily dependent on foreign visitors.

"They are executing people who hijack a boat," Mr. Smith said. "Will that
reassure Americans who think it is safe to go to Cuba?"

The Cuban authorities see the hijackings as related to a series of provocations
by the Bush administration and its conservative allies in Miami, according to an
official statement in Granma. There is little doubt, Cuba analysts said, that
the executions will only harden the government's critics.

The death sentences also infuriated those who, like Rep. Charles B. Rangel,
Democrat of New York, had been advocating a dialogue with Cuba. "This about ends
that discussion," Mr. Rangel said in a telephone interview. "I don't know how
far they are going to go, but they know how to support their enemies and get rid
of their friends."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 16, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A NATION AT WAR: AN IMMIGRANT COMMUNITY;
For Korean-Americans, Concerns for a New War

BYLINE:  By CALVIN SIMS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1230 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 15


Like many residents of the nation's largest Korean-American population here, Ik
Kyun Choe, who immigrated to California in 1974, is worried that after the
United States-led coalition finishes its military campaign in Iraq, North Korea
will be its next target and the results could be disastrous.

Mr. Choe, 66, who runs a brisk dry-cleaning business in the Koreatown district,
said that while he is an ardent supporter of President Bush, the fighting in
Iraq was a disturbing reminder of a night in 1950 when what seemed like violent
thunderstorms battered Seoul but brought no rain.

When the sun rose the next morning, Mr. Choe said, he peeked out a window and
saw hundreds of invading tanks from North Korea rumbling across his
grandfather's watermelon fields.

"This time, I am afraid that instead of tanks, the North will use nuclear bombs
to destroy my homeland and my loved ones," Mr. Choe said, referring to United
States claims that North Korea has developed one or two nuclear weapons and
missiles to transport them.

Across Koreatown, a bustling enclave of Korean commerce and culture just west of
downtown, residents and business owners expressed similar concerns that rising
tensions between the United States and communist North Korea in recent months
could lead to new fighting on the peninsula. In fact, a New York Times poll
conducted last weekend found that most Americans believe the success of the
United States in the Iraq war will lead it to use military force in North Korea.

Ever since the Stalinist regime of the North Korean leader Kim Jong Il announced
in December that it was reactivating its nuclear reactor, which can produce
weapons grade plutonium, Korean-Americans have been closely watching the
escalating crisis with great apprehension.

Many Korean-Americans said that they were encouraged by North Korea's statement
over the weekend that it was willing to negotiate over its nuclear program
without sticking "to any particular dialogue format" after months of insisting
on one-on-one talks with Washington. But many in the community noted that North
Korea is infamous for saying one thing and doing another.

Los Angeles County is home to about 190,000 Korean-Americans, the largest
concentration of Koreans outside the peninsula, and many of them said in recent
interviews that they were dismayed that the United States appeared to have put
the Korea crisis on the back burner once the war with Iraq began.

"Americans are so preoccupied with getting rid of Saddam Hussein, who so far
does not appear to have any weapons of mass destruction, that everyone seems to
have forgotten that North Korea has nuclear capability and that it is not afraid
to use it," said Angela Oh, a lawyer who is a prominent figure among Koreans in
Los Angeles Korean.

While many Korean-Americans said that they disagree with the Bush
administration's handling of the North Korea situation, others expressed strong
support for the United States government, underscoring a sharp generational
divide.

Older Korean-Americans, especially those who lived through the Korean War and
have an intense hatred of communism, feel a huge debt of gratitude to the United
States for its military intervention.

Mr. Choe says he knows firsthand the evils of communism and believes the United
States should take a firm stance against North Korea. "I support President Bush,
he's doing a good job," Mr. Choe said.

However, Mr. Choe's son, Peter, a recent college graduate, reflects a younger
American-born generation who contend that the United States should take a softer
approach toward North Korea to avoid bloodshed. These younger people are
critical of what they see as the Bush administration's failure to engage in
direct talks with North Korea, which they say will spur the communist regime to
process even more fissionable material that can be used to make more weapons or
sold to terrorists.

Allowing Korea to develop nuclear weapons could lead to an arms race in Asia,
many younger Koreans said, and makes an already tense situation -- the
decades-old face-off between North and South troops in the demilitarized zone --
even more incendiary.

"I'm proud to be an American, and I definitely don't support the North Korean
regime, which should be toppled," Mr. Choe, the son, said. "But I cannot just
blindly accept a foreign policy that does more harm than good."

North Korea has said the United States, which has 37,000 troops in South Korea
and recently sent 24 American bombers to Guam as a response to the North's plans
to restart its nuclear reactor, had increased the likelihood of war on the
peninsula.

In his State of the Union address last year, President Bush referred to Iraq,
Iran and North Korea as an "axis of evil" that he would not let stand. Mr. Bush
has expressed disdain for Mr. Kim in much the same way he has for Saddam
Hussein.

Little is known about the true state of affairs in North Korea. But North Korea,
by all accounts, is in dire straits. Mr. Kim has kept his deeply impoverished
country physically and ideologically isolated. Inefficient agriculture and
devastating floods have created severe food shortages. Some analysts have said
North Korea is trying to use nuclear capability to blackmail the United States
into providing economic concessions.

Eui-Young Yu, a professor of sociology at California State University at Los
Angeles, said that many Korean-Americans do not understand why the Bush
administration is not engaging North Korea in a dialogue. Dr. Yu, who migrated
from Seoul in 1963, said the administration should convene a task force on North
Korea that would include a diversity of opinion, including Korean-Americans.

The opinions of Korean Americans, who number about one million in the United
States, according to the 2000 census, are rarely heard in the national foreign
policy debate, mainly because the group, although prosperous, has little
political muscle and is reluctant to speak publicly.

In the aftermath of the Los Angeles riots in 1992, in which thousands of Korean
businesses were damaged and destroyed, the Korean-Americans resolved to improve
relations with other ethnic groups and to become more involved in politics.

Charles J. Kim, executive director of the Korean-American Coalition, an advocacy
group, said that through various outreach programs relations had greatly
improved between Korean-Americans and blacks and Latinos, the two groups who
police said were responsible for looting and burning Korean businesses during
the riots. But Mr. Kim said that Korean-Americans due mainly to their relatively
small numbers, inexperience and short history in the United States, had little
political influence.

"We still have a long way to go politically," Mr. Kim said. "Our numbers in the
population are still too small. We have so few elected politicians. And we don't
have any think tanks or other institutions to influence public debate." He said
it was just a matter of time before Korean-Americans became better organized and
started using their growing financial clout for political purposes.

Korean migration to the United States began during the Korean War of 1950 to
1953. Many of the Korean immigrants were well educated and middle class and
settled in Los Angeles, where the climate was favorable and location close to
Seoul. Although the early immigrants spoke little English, many found success as
small-business owners.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ik Kyun Choe and his wife, Ok Soon Choe, at their Los Angeles
dry cleaning shop, are paying close attention to developments in North Korea.
(Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 17, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Help Steady Big-City Populations

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 515 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 16


Immigrants helped to stabilize some of the nation's big-city centers last year,
while people moving around the country continued to push out the metropolitan
fringes.

Rockwall County, Tex., which is about 20 miles east of Dallas, was the fastest
growing county, with a population that rose 7.9 percent to 50,858 in July 2002
from 47,130 in July 2001. Suburban counties around Denver, Atlanta and
Washington also had big gains as shown on the list to be released Thursday by
the Census Bureau.

The latest figures provide fresh evidence of demographic trends that have
developed for decades, said William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings
Institution, a Washington research organization.

"These big counties are increasingly dependent on immigration," Mr. Frey said.
"Growth in the suburbs has occurred because the more affordable homes are the
ones further out."

Los Angeles County, the nation's largest county, added 118,000 immigrants while
losing 83,000 residents to other parts of the nation. Overall, the population
grew 1.3 percent in the year, to 9.8 million.

Cook County, home to Chicago, had a net increase of 50,000 international
migrants and a net decrease of 97,000 domestic migrants. The county's population
overall remained relatively unchanged at 5.4 million.

The 2000 census showed that emigration from Mexico helped Chicago reverse a
decline of decades in population. Newcomers went to the southwest Chicago
neighborhood called La Villita, or the Little Village, for jobs and to be with
family and friends already there. That, in turn, helped spur a business boom in
the neighborhood, said Abel Nunez, an administrator at Centro Romero, a local
social service agency.

"Chicago has had a long history of immigrant waves replacing immigrant waves,"
Mr. Nunez said.

Most of the largest urban counties had little or no growth, while suburban
counties in the West and South once again dominated the list of fastest-growing
areas.

After Rockwall County, the next three fastest-growing were Loudoun County, Va.,
west of Washington, and the Atlanta suburbs Henry and Forsyth Counties. Flagler
County, on the Atlantic Coast between Jacksonville and Daytona Beach, Fla., was
fifth.

Joann Glover, a resident of Rockwall County who organizes a club for women who
recently moved to the county, said she had mixed feelings about the area's
growth.

Ms. Glover said she moved there in 1989 to raise her children in a quiet
community within commuting distance of Dallas. Despite its proximity to Dallas,
Rockwall had limited suburban sprawl in recent decades because of poor highways
and a big lake that acted as a natural boundary, Ms. Glover said.

Now, she says, it is easy to tell how the increased growth has affected the
county by counting the traffic lights. Her town has seven now, instead of two a
decade ago.

Some suburbs have grown so fast that they have become their destinations for
commuters as jobs move into sprawling office parks from downtown areas, Steve
Murdock, Texas state demographer, said.

The United States had 288.4 million residents last July, up 1.1 percent from
2001.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 19, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

All-American? U.S. Says No;
Teenager May Be Deported, but Pakistan Isn't Home

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words


To his friends at Jamaica High School, he is Sarfaraz, the junior point guard on
the varsity basketball team with the pinpoint jump shot and hardwood dreams of
college and maybe pro ball. In looks and speech, he is about as New York City as
they come.

But to the federal government, he is Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain, an illegal
immigrant from Pakistan who may be deported.

Since moving to Queens from Pakistan nearly 10 years ago, Mr. Hussain, 18, has
embraced many elements of modern American culture, most notably basketball and
hip-hop. He is now encountering another aspect of it: wariness of Muslim
immigrants.

In February, his uncle, Dr. Kamal Ahmed, heard something about a deadline for
Pakistanis to register with the government, and also heard that failure to
comply might lead to deportation.

"I told him: 'You have to go. You may feel 100 percent American, but there are
people who don't see you that way,' " recalled Dr. Ahmed, who has raised Mr.
Hussain in his home in Holliswood.

The deadline was part of a special registration program created by the United
States government in response to Sept. 11 to better identify potential
terrorists. Under it, the Immigration and Naturalization Service required
registration by male noncitizens older than 16 from Arab and Muslim countries
considered high-risk for terrorist activity.

The policy instilled fear and outrage throughout neighborhoods with a high
concentration of Muslims, especially in parts of Queens and Brooklyn.

The registration deadline for Pakistani immigrants was Feb. 21. When Mr. Hussain
registered on Feb. 19, he was told that since he was a citizen and native of
Pakistan with no official documentation here, removal proceedings would be
started against him. He is scheduled to appear in front of an immigration judge
on May 1.

His uncle immediately hired an immigration lawyer, Liz Ouyang, who plans to ask
the judge to drop the proceedings on the basis of "compelling humanitarian
reasons." She argues that Mr. Hussain is as American as any United States
citizen, from his sense of patriotism to his taste in clothes, music, friends
and hairstyle.

In addition, she said, "family unity is the bedrock of the U.S. immigration
policy." Mr. Hussain's parents both died on the verge of getting their legal
immigration documentation, she said. His four siblings, all Pakistani
immigrants, live in New York City as naturalized citizens. One of his sisters
filed an immigration petition for Mr. Hussain in April 2001, Ms. Ouyang said,
but it could take 10 years to be processed.

On Feb. 19 this year, Mr. Hussain took a day off from school and waited all day
in the cold with other Pakistanis and Arabs to register. Most of them held work
or study visas. They included business owners and engineering students.

Mr. Hussain was photographed and fingerprinted and asked detailed questions
about his parents' names and addresses, how and when they arrived as well as
whether he had any connection to terrorist organizations. He finally completed
the process at 10 p.m.

Mr. Hussain said that he was born in Karachi, the youngest of three girls and
two boys. In early 1993, his mother obtained a visitor's visa to come to New
York City for cancer treatment, and Mr. Hussain soon followed her to be at her
side. When her visa came through in Karachi, she was too ill to claim it there,
and she died in New York in August 1993, after begging her brother to raise her
son. Mr. Hussain's father remained in Karachi waiting for his own visa, but died
of a heart attack in 2000, just as it was being approved, the family said.

Since March 1, the I.N.S. has been folded into the Department of Homeland
Security. Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the department's Bureau of Immigration and
Customs Enforcement in New York, said when contacted a week ago that he was
unable to get access to Mr. Hussain's records. But he added that "it is agency
policy not to discuss any aspect of any case that is before a court."

Mr. Thorn added: "In general, in a post-9/11 environment, special registration
is a requirement. It is designed to identify any individual who is in violation
of immigrant law."

On the basketball court, Mr. Hussain has learned how to penetrate a zone defense
and defend against the pick-and-roll. On the street, he has learned how to
negotiate the complicated social challenges of being a New York City teenager.
But he seems overwhelmed by what has unfolded in his life over the past two
months. He speaks softly around strangers, giving one-word answers, and is too
embarrassed to ask teachers and friends for letters of support or petition
signatures.

He lives in the bedroom his mother died in nearly 10 years ago. He still keeps a
photograph of her under the plastic laminate of his school notebook. To look
past the high tops, basketball jersey and stylish haircut these days is to see
the scared child who first came to America to see his dying mother.

"He wasn't born here, but otherwise he is American," Dr. Ahmed, the uncle, said.
"If he's deported, he has no country."

Dr. Ahmed has done well for himself here. He is a gynecologist with two offices
and is well known in the community. On a recent visit, he wore a sharp business
suit with no shoes. He wiggled his bare feet into the green pile carpeting that
runs throughout his sprawling home in this well-to-do part of eastern Queens.
The area is ethnically diverse, and Mr. Hussain blends in easily. He showed
photographs of his multiethnic group of friends. He is wearing a backward
baseball cap, enjoying pizza and Coke.

"He doesn't eat Bengali food like us," said Dr. Ahmed, 52, who raised Mr.
Hussain with his son, Khaled Ahmed, now 19. "The boys eat American food. Pizza
and ----"

"Subway," said Mr. Hussain, grinning at Mr. Ahmed.

Mr. Hussain has musical tastes that run from slow R & B to rappers like Tupac
Shakur and 50 Cent. He came to America speaking only Urdu, but now he speaks the
English dialect of a New York street teenager. His wall is covered with recent
newspaper articles about city high school basketball, and a dozen basketball
trophies stand on his bureau.

Mr. Hussain continues to play basketball on club teams and recently scored 26
points in a game. At a wispy 6 feet tall, he can dunk a basketball, and he hopes
to go to basketball camp this summer to impress college scouts. A scholarship
would bolster his immigration status, Ms. Ouyang, the lawyer, said. In this
sense, Mr. Hussain is playing for his future here.

"I ask him to concentrate on his case, and he says, 'I got a basketball game
today,' " she said, sighing.

But his high school coach, DeWitt Thomson, said that Mr. Hussain has become
distracted recently, both on the court and in the classroom, and low grades have
prohibited him from playing on the team. Mr. Thomson described Mr. Hussain as a
skilled player, and he said he kept Mr. Hussain on as team manager because
"basketball is what was giving him acceptance here."

"What a stunning defeat this would be if he was suddenly judged to be an illegal
alien because of these crazy times we're in," said Mr. Thomson, also a dean at
the school. "Not only to him, but to the family that nurtured him, the people
who educated him and the community that accepted him."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain, above, lives in the house in Queens
where his mother died 10 years ago. His notebook has a photo of his deceased
parents on it. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. D1);
Mohammad Sarfaraz Hussain plays basketball on a club team and is manager of his
high school team. The sport gives him acceptance. (Andrea Mohin/The New York
Times)(pg. D4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             April 25, 2003 Friday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTEREFFECTS: IMMIGRANTS;
Fearful, Angry or Confused, Muslim Immigrants Register

BYLINE:   By RACHEL L. SWARNS with CHRISTOPHER DREW

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1856 words

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., April 24


The parking attendant with weary eyes huddled over the Koran and whispered his
prayers, calling on Allah to let him stay in America. He knew there should be no
problem, he said -- he had a work permit, after all -- but his application for a
green card was pending and his nerves were jangling.

"Everyone is afraid," said the man, a balding 45-year-old Egyptian who would
give only his first name, Sameh. "Many people I know have been detained."

Still, after waiting until today, the final days before the government's Friday
deadline, Sameh packed his passport andvisa and joined hundreds of other Muslims
who poured into immigration offices across the country this week to be
fingerprinted, photographed and interviewed by officials hunting for terrorists.

During the last five months, nearly 130,000 male immigrants and visitors,
predominantly Muslims, have been questioned in immigration offices, airports and
border crossings -- the largest effort to register immigrants in decades.
Officials say they have caught and detained 11 suspected terrorists; they also
say they have arrested more than 800 criminal suspects and deportable convicts,
caught more than 9,000 illegal aliens and gathered a wealth of detailed
information about legal immigrants from countries that are considered breeding
grounds for terrorism.

"I regard this as a great success," said Kris Kobach, general counsel for the
Justice Department. "Sept. 11th awakened the country to the fact that weak
immigration enforcement presents a huge vulnerability that terrorists can
exploit."

Opinions in America's diverse Muslim communities are not monolithic and many
people emphasized that they understand why the government wanted to register
people from countries considered breeding grounds for terrorists.

But in the glass-and-steel government building here, where immigrants answer
questions about their bank accounts and previous addresses, many people said the
registrations had also deepened the fear and disillusionment among law-abiding
Muslims still reeling from the arrests, detentions and deportations following
the Sept. 11 attacks.

"I love America so I have to respect the law. But we are not terrorists. We are
coming here as law-abiding people to work," said Sameh, who parks cars near a
shopping mall in suburban Maryland and was the 50th in line at the crowded
immigration office this week.

What he found was fairly typical, according to interviews with immigrants here
and in several other parts of the country: understaffed immigration officers and
a wait that stretched nearly eight hours.

In some instances across the country, immigrants have encountered more serious
problems, say lawyers and advocates: confused and inconsistent officials who
sometimes denied them their right to legal representation and, in rarer
instances, mistaken arrests and detention in filthy, overcrowded cells.

Immigration officials said they had worked hard to fix problems and to respond
to complaints. They said that problems were inevitable in any new program and
noted that fewer than 5 percent of the immigrants registered at government
offices in the United States were ever detained. They said that the vast
majority of detainees had violated the country's immigration law.
"We've been monitoring it very closely," Mr. Kobach said. "Any time you're
registering more than 100,000 people, there are going to be isolated instances
where things don't go well. But generally, we've received positive feedback."

Nearly 90 percent of the immigrants who registered at immigration offices inside
the United States were working or studying here legally, officials said.

For those in the nation illegally and determined to stay, the choices -- declare
their presence or sink deeper underground -- have been considerably more
wrenching. Many have simply left the country.

The program has employed rolling deadlines for different nationalities, and
Friday, the final day of registration for immigrants living in the United
States, was also the deadline for Egyptians, Jordanians, Kuwaitis, Indonesians
and Bangladeshis with work or student visas. Citizens and green-card holders are
not required to register.

At a Bangladeshi restaurant today in Jackson Heights, Queens, seven men were
gathered around a table. Most had green cards, but two had problems with their
papers and a dim view of the registrations.

One of them, nicknamed Sumon, had come from Dhaka in 1995 on a tourist visa, now
overstayed. His wife and young son went back last month, but she is counting on
him to send money home from his job as a waiter in Manhattan. He says he read
about the registrations in a Bangladeshi newspaper.

Sumon said he had spoken to two lawyers and that "they advised me to go. But in
the last couple of weeks, I've heard about so many people being arrested, and
that they had to go and see a judge and that they would be deported," he said.

He has decided not to register; 15 friends, he said, made the same decision. "I
know I'm taking a risk," he said. "If anything happens, that's destiny. I mean,
what are they going to do, deport me?"

How many others have made that same decision cannot be known. But more than
9,000 illegal immigrants have registered so far, hoping, perhaps, for leniency.
They have all been issued notices to appear in court, often the first step
toward deportation; about 2,300 have been detained for further questioning, for
anywhere from a few hours to three days, lawyers and officials said. Immigration
officials emphasized that the detainees represented only a small minority of
those questioned.

Even as they said they understood the government's reasons for the program, many
said it had instead served to alienate the very people to whom the government
ought to develop cooperative ties in its fight against terrorism.

There is also a feeling of loss, particularly among legal immigrants who
remember the days when they did not have give their credit card numbers or
fingerprints or about how Americans would respond to their headscarves or
surnames.

"We walk in the streets, but we're afraid, to be honest," said Zouheir Adhis,
37, a Palestinian computer engineer who works at an electronics store in
Florida. He went to an immigration office in Tampa in March to make sure that
Palestinians were not required to register.

The officials, who did not know how to deal with a Palestinian man born in a
Lebanese refugee camp, arrested him because the deadline for Lebanese citizens
to register had already expired. Prosecutors later dropped the charges against
him.

"I went to the office because I thought maybe the government officials are just
doing their job, their security job, making America safe for all people," said
Mr. Adhis, who is married to an American and applying for a green card. "But
they ignored my words and locked me up.

"I felt like I was nobody," he said. "After this, I will never go to the police
and ask for help."

Government officials refused to provide any details about the 11 terrorist
suspects, saying only that their names, photographs or fingerprints were similar
to descriptions of known terrorists in F.B.I. and C.I.A. databases.

A Justice Department spokesman, Jorge Martinez, would not say whether the
suspects had been formally charged with crimes, immigration violations or were
being held without charge as material witnesses.

In October, the government first began national registrations at airports and
border crossings, focusing on foreign visitors from Syria, Sudan, Libya, Iran
and Iraq as well as other people who seem suspicious or have unusual
itineraries.

Two months later, immigration officials began registering immigrants living in
the United States. They are interviewing people from 25 countries, most of them
Muslim, that are believed to either sponsor or tolerate terrorist groups.

To cope with the sudden influx of people, the government has shifted staff from
different departments to focus on the program. Officials also extended the
rolling deadline for registration at immigration offices inside the United
States when immigrants complained about poor notification. Officials said they
had also offered illegal immigrants the opportunity to depart voluntarily as
opposed to deportation, which lets them apply for visas in the future.

The registrations were necessary, officials said, because there was simply no
functional system to track immigrants once they entered the country, a fault
that became evident when it was found that some Sept. 11 hijackers had
overstayed their visas.

In the 1940's and 1950's, with mounting fears of war and Soviet infiltration,
the government also conducted mass registrations of immigrants, eventually
involving more than two million. Officials said they were walking a similarly
fine line now, striving to protect national security while maintaining the
nation's commitment to immigrants.

"The bottom line is to protect the safety of the American people," said Mr.
Martinez of the Justice Department, who described the problems as minimal. "This
program has already showed us how effective we can be at maintaining an adequate
system of border control."

He cited the roughly 700 people who were denied entry to the United States or
detained at the borders because they were wanted felons or had criminal records
containing deportable offenses. He said that about 100 people in the same
category were found during the call-in registrations in the country.

But inconsistencies and other problems persist.

In Baltimore, immigrants who cannot prove that they have pending applications
for work permits or other visas are released on their own recognizance. In
Arlington, people in the same situation are detained until they can pay a $1,500
bail. "It drives me crazy," said Karim Hanafy, an immigration lawyer who
shuttles his clients between the two cities depending on their situation.

In Los Angeles, some Muslims were mistakenly detained for days because they
lacked the proper paperwork because of delays and inefficiencies in the
government's processing of applications for work permits, green cards and other
services.

In New York, immigration lawyers said they were repeatedly denied access to
their clients during interviews with officials despite government promises to
the contrary. Immigrants who overstayed their visas were often detained for more
than 24 hours and signed papers in the absence of lawyers.

Government officials said clients were guaranteed the right to lawyers during
their interviews, but that lawyers did not have to be present after the
interviews ended and clients were being prepared for detention.

"No, no, lawyers are not allowed," insisted Zia Khan, a cab driver from
Bangladesh who has an application for a green card pending.

Mr. Khan went to register with his lawyer, but said officials did not ask him to
sign any documents until his lawyer was gone and he was being detained.
"I signed three or four papers," said Mr. Khan, who was detained overnight and
now faces deportation. "There was no time to read. They just said 'sign here,
sign here.' They asked me if I wanted interpretation. I said no. I think I
understand good."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 26, 2003



CORRECTION: Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Muslim men
who were fulfilling a government requirement to register at immigration offices
misstated the day that an Egyptian parking attendant registered in Arlington,
Va. It was Tuesday, not Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Hardin, foreground, a volunteer with the Muslim Public
Affairs Council, watched the line yesterday at the immigration office in
Arlington, Va. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 26, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 44 words


Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about Muslim men who were
fulfilling a government requirement to register at immigration offices misstated
the day that an Egyptian parking attendant registered in Arlington, Va. It was
Tuesday, not Thursday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Excerpts From Supreme Court Ruling

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1425 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 29


Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court's ruling in Demore v. Kim that the
government can imprison those it seeks to deport without giving them a hearing.
Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist wrote the majority opinion; Justice David H.
Souter wrote a dissent. A transcript is online at nytimes.com/washington.

FROM THE DECISION
By Chief Justice Rehnquist

In the present case, the statutory provision at issue governs detention of
deportable criminal aliens pending their removal proceedings. Such detention
necessarily serves the purpose of preventing deportable criminal aliens from
fleeing prior to or during their removal proceedings, thus increasing the chance
that, if ordered removed, the aliens will be successfully removed. Respondent
disagrees, arguing that there is no evidence that mandatory detention is
necessary because the Government has never shown that individualized bond
hearings would be ineffective. But as discussed above, in adopting Section
1226(c), Congress had before it evidence suggesting that permitting
discretionary release of aliens pending their removal hearings would lead to
large numbers of deportable criminal aliens skipping their hearings and
remaining at large in the United States unlawfully.

Respondent argues that these statistics are irrelevant and do not demonstrate
that individualized bond hearings "are ineffective or burdensome." It is of
course true that when Congress enacted Section 1226, individualized bail
determinations had not been tested under optimal conditions, or tested in all
their possible permutations. But when the Government deals with deportable
aliens, the Due Process Clause does not require it to employ the least
burdensome means to accomplish its goal. The evidence Congress had before it
certainly supports the approach it selected even if other, hypothetical studies
might have suggested different courses of action.

Zadvydas is materially different from the present case in a second respect as
well. While the period of detention at issue in Zadvydas was "indefinite" and
"potentially permanent," the detention here is of a much shorter duration.

Zadvydas distinguished the statutory provision it was there considering from
Section 1226 on these very grounds, noting that "post-removal-period detention,
unlike detention pending a determination of removability, has no obvious
termination point." Under 1226(c), not only does detention have a definite
termination point, in the majority of cases it lasts for less than the 90 days
we considered presumptively valid in Zadvydas. The Executive Office for
Immigration Review has calculated that, in 85 percent of the cases in which
aliens are detained pursuant to Section 1226(c), removal proceedings are
completed in an average time of 47 days and a median of 30 days.

. . .

For the reasons set forth above, respondent's claim must fail. Detention during
removal proceedings is a constitutionally permissible part of that process. The
I.N.S. detention of respondent, a criminal alien who has conceded that he is
deportable, for the limited period of his removal proceedings, is governed by
these cases. The judgment of the Court of Appeals is reversed.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Souter

Kim's claim is a limited one: not that the Government may not detain LPRs to
ensure their appearance at removal hearings, but that due process under the
Fifth Amendment conditions a potentially lengthy detention on a hearing and an
impartial decision maker's finding that detention is necessary to a governmental
purpose. He thus invokes our repeated decisions that the claim of liberty
protected by the Fifth Amendment is at its strongest when government seeks to
detain an individual. The Chief Justice wrote in 1987 that "In our society
liberty is the norm, and detention prior to trial or without trial is the
carefully limited exception."

Accordingly, the Fifth Amendment permits detention only where "heightened,
substantive due process scrutiny" finds a "sufficiently compelling" governmental
need.

In deciding in Salerno that this principle did not categorically bar pretrial
detention of criminal defendants without bail under the Bail Reform Act of 1984,
it was crucial that the statute provided that, " i n a full-blown adversary
hearing, the Government must convince a neutral decision maker by clear and
convincing evidence that no conditions of release can reasonably assure the
safety of the community or any person." We stressed that the Act was not a
"scattershot attempt to incapacitate those who are merely suspected of" serious
offenses, and held that due process allowed some pretrial detention.

We have reviewed involuntary civil commitment statutes the same way. In
Addington v. Texas (1979), we held that a State could not civilly commit the
mentally ill without showing by "clear and convincing evidence" that the person
was dangerous to others, The elevated burden of proof was demanded because "loss
of liberty calls for a showing that the individual suffers from something more
serious than is demonstrated by idiosyncratic behavior." The statutory
deficiency was the same in Foucha, where we held that Louisiana's civil
commitment statute failed due process because the individual was denied an
"adversary hearing at which the State must prove by clear and convincing
evidence that he is demonstrably dangerous to the community."

In addition to requiring a compelling reason for detention, we held that the
class of persons affected must be narrow and, in pretrial-type lockup, the time
must be no more than what is reasonably necessary before the merits can be
resolved. In the case of the Bail Reform Act, we placed weight on the fact that
the statute applied only to defendants suspected of "the most serious of
crimes." Salerno relied on the restriction of detention "by the stringent time
limitations of the Speedy Trial Act," it was a fault that the statute did not
impose any comparable limitation.

The substantive demands of due process necessarily go hand in hand with the
procedural, and the cases insist at the least on an opportunity for a detainee
to challenge the reason claimed for committing him.

These cases yield a simple distillate that should govern the result here. Due
process calls for an individual determination before someone is locked away. In
none of the cases cited did we ever suggest that the government could avoid the
Due Process Clause by doing what Section 1226(c) does, by selecting a class of
people for confinement on a categorical basis and denying members of that class
any chance to dispute the necessity of putting them away. The cases, of course,
would mean nothing if citizens and comparable residents could be shorn of due
process by this sort of categorical sleight of hand. Without any "full-blown
adversary hearing" before detention, or heightened burden of proof, or other
procedures to show the government's interest in committing an individual,
procedural rights would amount to nothing but mechanisms for testing group
membership.

. . .

In sum, due process requires a "special justification" for physical detention
that "outweighs the individual's constitutionally protected interest in avoiding
physical restraint" as well as "adequate procedural protections." "There must be
a 'sufficiently compelling' governmental interest to justify such an action,
usually a punitive interest in imprisoning the convicted criminal or a
regulatory interest in forestalling danger to the community."

. . .

By these standards, Kim's case is an easy one. "Heightened, substantive due
process scrutiny," uncovers serious infirmities in Section 1226(c). Detention is
not limited to dangerous criminal aliens or those found likely to flee, but
applies to all aliens claimed to be deportable for criminal convictions, even
where the underlying offenses are minor. Detention under Section 1226(c) is not
limited by the kind of time limit imposed by the Speedy Trial Act, and while it
lasts only as long as the removal proceedings, those proceedings have no
deadline and may last over a year. Section 1226(c) neither requires nor permits
an official to determine whether Kim's detention was necessary to prevent flight
or danger.

Kim's detention without particular justification in these respects, or the
opportunity to enquire into it, violates both components of due process, and I
would accordingly affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals requiring the INS
to hold a bail hearing to see whether detention is needed to avoid a risk of
flight or a danger to the community.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            April 30, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Registering Muslims

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 79 words


To the Editor:

Re "Fearful, Angry or Confused, Muslim Immigrants Register" (front page, April
25):

Immigration officials should do their jobs more efficiently to prevent felons
and other undesirables from entering the country, but once a person is allowed
to enter and to apply for residency, all the rights and duties due to any
resident and/or citizen of the United States must be granted.

The ghost of McCarthy is smiling.

PHYLLIS SANGUINETTI
Buenos Aires, April 25, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                               May 2, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Threat Not Discussed

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 123 words


To the Editor:

Re "Unsettled in America" (letter, April 29):

I am also an American, born and raised by American citizens, and I, too, like a
majority of Americans, am "fearful, angry and confused."

Fearful that illegal immigrants are flooding into the country every year. Angry
that the media ignore the effect that this has on education, housing, health
care, wages, the environment and potential terrorism.

So many have overstayed their visas, so I am confused as to why any immigrant
lucky enough to be here would find it difficult or unpleasant to register.

The Bush administration is not "taking away civil liberties from all people," as
the letter writer says; in fact, none at all.

CAROLINE MACWHERTER
Wayzata, Minn., April 29, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 3, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

5 Who Died in Car Crash Were Immigrants Who Dreamed of Home

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 869 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., May 2


The volume control on the radio of Jorge Alpuin's dilapidated 1986 Ford was
broken.

So on their way home, the restaurant co-workers -- immigrants from three Latin
American countries -- usually dozed or talked, sometimes about the job,
sometimes about their dreams of going home or of bringing family members to join
them here.

The late night ride from Houlihan's in Holmdel to the five workers' homes in
Elizabeth would take about 30 minutes, according to Karen Castro and Ana Doris
Taborda, who were part of the car pool themselves until two weeks ago. Each of
them lost a brother early Thursday morning when, according to the Linden police,
Mr. Alpuin's car was struck head on by a 1998 Mercedes-Benz that had jumped the
median on Routes 1 and 9 in Linden while traveling at high speed.

Mr. Alpuin and three of his passengers -- Juan Chavez and his sister Olga, and
Wilman Rojas -- were killed instantly, the police said, as was the driver of the
Mercedes, Edward C. Belvin, an off-duty Union County police officer. The fifth
occupant of the Ford, Marlon Alexis Castro, died hours later at University
Hospital in Newark.

Police investigators said today that they had reached no conclusions about the
cause of the accident. They expected some answers from the results of autopsies
being completed today and from toxicology reports, which will take six to eight
weeks.

Today, as relatives of the dead planned funerals and transportation home for the
bodies of their loved ones, they talked of the dreams they had had, and of
twists of fate. Ms. Castro and Ms. Taborda had left jobs at Houlihan's in search
of better-paying positions. Ms. Castro shuddered visibly and Ms. Taborda's voice
cracked as they considered the different turns their lives could have taken.

Alexis Castro, 23, a prep cook at Houlihan's, was a native of Lima, Peru, who
had graduated from a university there in systems analysis. He came to the United
States two years ago with his mother, Ester, after being unable to find a job in
Peru, said his sister Karen, 20. He started working as a grill man and crew
trainer at a McDonald's near his home while taking English classes at Union
County College in Elizabeth.

"He wanted to learn more English, sophisticated words," said an aunt, Luz
Fuerte. "He knew he had to speak better English to get a good job here. His
dream, though, was to go back to Peru one day. But his dreams have ended."

According to his sister, aunt and co-workers at the McDonald's where he had
continued to work part time, Mr. Castro was happy, cooperative and rarely
frustrated by life as an immigrant. When not working, he would sit in front of
the big screen of his home computer, surfing the Internet, going into chat rooms
and checking on news from Peru, his sister said.

Atop the hutch where the computer sits is a small plaque from McDonald's etched
with his name and inscribed, "Best Grill of the Year for 2001."

"He was quiet and always did what he was asked to do," said Brunhilda Dominguez,
assistant director of operations for the franchiser that owns the McDonald's
where Mr. Castro worked. "All he did was work and go to school. He had no
girlfriends or social life."

Unlike Mr. Castro, Wilman Rojas was preoccupied with frustration, his relatives
said.

"The thing that frustrated him was the same thing that frustrates all
immigrants," said Victor Taborda, Mr. Rojas's brother-in-law. "His family was
elsewhere. He didn't sit around talking about it a lot, but he showed it."

Mr. Taborda said Mr. Rojas had called home to Palmira, Colombia, every other day
since coming to the United States a year ago. He hoped to make enough money to
bring his wife, Erica, and their 4-year-old daughter, Maria Camila, here as
well.

Mr. Rojas, 31 and a high school graduate, had been a bank teller in Palmira
until the bank closed. Since arriving in the United States, he had worked with
landscaping crews and at construction jobs. But late last year he heard about
the jobs at a soon-to-be-opened Houlihan's in Holmdel.

"It was good money and a steady job," said Mr. Taborda. "And he was a working
guy."

Little could be found out yesterday about the three other passengers in the
Ford, Juan and Olga Chavez, both 20, and Mr. Alpuin, who was 33. All three were
from Uruguay, said Jorge Chavez, the brother of Juan and Olga and the
brother-in-law of Mr. Alpuin.

As he stood in front of the two-story, four-family home on Cherry Street where
his brother and sister lived, Mr. Chavez said simply that he felt the pain of a
brother who had lost siblings who had been in the country for just six months.
He was sad, he said in Spanish. He referred any other questions to the family's
lawyer, who did not return telephone calls.

Today at Houlihan's, grief counselors talked with the staff members. Steven
Labrovic, area director for the restaurant chain, said one waitress was in tears
remembering how she and Ms. Chavez would exchange a new English word and a
Spanish word each day as she taught English to the Uruguayan immigrant.

The restaurant announced the establishment of a Houlihan's Holmdel Car Accident
Families Fund to raise money for the victims' survivors. The fund will be
administered by Hudson United Bank in Franklin Lakes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Among those killed, from top, were Marlon Alexis Castro, Olga
Chavez and Wilman Rojas. Yesterday, Mr. Rojas's mother, Rosalba Gonzalez, right,
and his sister, Ana Doris Taborda, spoke as they looked at pictures at the
family's home in Elizabeth, N.J. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. B5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 6, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

SNAPSHOTS;
His Rule of Law: Low Overhead

BYLINE:  By SHAIFALI PURI

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Small Business; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 446 words


JAMES A. O'MALLEY
BUSINESS: Law firm specializing in immigration.
LOCATION: New York City and Dublin.
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: Three lawyers, two paralegals.
ANNUAL REVENUE: About $500,000.

WHEN James A. O'Malley came to the United States from Limerick, Ireland, in
1977, his plan was to teach literature. But America, he found, has a way of
changing your plans.

"I kept hearing all these American guys saying they were going to law school and
it sounded so interesting," Mr. O'Malley said. "And I thought, 'Wow, in this
country anyone can just go to law school.' "

Today, he is an immigration lawyer with more than 200 clients from 70 countries.
But when he graduated from law school in 1985, he had no idea how to set up a
practice, so he apprenticed himself to an established lawyer to learn the ropes.

In addition to preaching the cardinal rule that a businessman has to keep his
overhead low ("I had a desk with a phone in a shared one-room office," Mr.
O'Malley said), his mentor taught him the critical difference between being a
lawyer and being a traditional businessman: "A lawyer might have a hundred
clients, but each client only has one lawyer," he said. "And you are responsible
to that client on an individual basis, so you can't think in terms of volume as
a traditional business owner might."

When he struck out on his own, in 1987, Mr. O'Malley knew that much of his
practice would consist of filling out government forms for visas, green cards
and citizenship. He focused on standardizing the process and prices in order to
handle more clients. "For a routine visa application the process will require
about 10 hours of work, and we charge about $2,000," he said.

In the early days, Mr. O'Malley said, "I'd save the complicated cases for
Saturdays because they couldn't be standardized and required more time."

Mr. O'Malley employs two lawyers and two paralegals, and has an office in Dublin
with one lawyer. Business is good, and he anticipates that it will grow, a
prospect that leaves him with mixed feelings. For one thing, he dislikes the
logistics of being a boss. "I never wanted to be so big that all I did was
manage people," he said.

And he has not forgotten his lessons about overhead costs. Salaries for the
lawyers start in the high-$40,000 range and for the administrative staff in the
mid- to high-$20,000 range. Health care costs run about $300 to $400 a month per
employee.

Mr. O'Malley clearly relishes the client relationships he has as a small-firm
proprietor. On his office wall is a painting of a courthouse, a view seen from
his window. It was done by a client who had set up an easel in Mr. O'Malley's
office for three months.
   SHAIFALI PURI

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: NEW AND OLD WORLDS -- James O'Malley, an immigration lawyer, in
his New York office. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 7, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTEREFFECTS: IMMIGRATION;
Allowing Those Who Fight for Their Country to Be a Part of It

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 844 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6


Diego Rincon decided to fight for this country after the World Trade Center was
struck by terrorists on Sept. 11, 2001. He was a poor 18-year-old immigrant from
Colombia, the son of a carpet cleaner.

He was not a citizen; he only had a green card. But he joined the Army in his
hometown, Conyers, Ga., five months after the attack.

"He knew he had to do something," Jorge Rincon, his father, said in an
interview. "His heart told him what to do."

On March 29, Mr. Rincon was killed in a suicide bombing attack while on duty in
Iraq. He was among 10 immigrant soldiers killed during the war in Iraq, and
their deaths have touched off a flurry of efforts in Congress to create laws to
speed up the naturalization process for noncitizens serving in the United States
military.

About 37,000 immigrants -- all legal permanent residents -- serve in the armed
forces, making up about 3 percent of the active-duty population, Pentagon
officials say. They are allowed to apply for citizenship after three years of
service. In July, President Bush waived the waiting period for immigrants who
joined the military after Sept. 11, saying they could apply immediately and as
long as the war on terrorism was continuing.

Several Democrats and Republicans in Congress are seeking a more permanent
solution that will help immigrant soldiers in peacetime. They say the three-year
waiting period is too long for people who risk their lives for this country.
They also want to allow spouses and children of soldiers killed in the line of
duty to apply for citizenship immediately.

Today, the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration weighed the merits of six
bills intended to eliminate barriers on the road to citizenship. Committee
members are working on a consensus bill that is expected to go to a vote in the
full Judiciary Committee on Wednesday.

"This is our chance to do the right thing for those who are doing the right
thing for America," said Representative Doc Hastings, Republican of Washington,
author of one bill.

In his bill, Mr. Hastings suggested that immigrant soldiers be allowed to apply
for citizenship immediately after joining the military. Two Democrats,
Representatives Martin Frost of Texas and Hilda L. Solis of California,
suggested a two-year waiting period.

Several of the bills suggest that the spouse and children of a slain soldier be
allowed to apply for citizenship immediately after the soldier is killed in the
line of duty. Several suggest that parents and siblings also be included in that
list, even if they are illegal immigrants.

The legislators want to waive fees for immigrant soldiers applying for
citizenship and to allow the soldiers to conduct their citizenship interviews
abroad at American embassies and consulates during their tours of duty. Soldiers
now often have to fly back to the United States at their own expense for such
interviews.

"We shouldn't be imposing those kind of barriers," said Mr. Frost, who proposed
legislative changes even before the war in Iraq.

But there is considerable disagreement over the length of the waiting period.
Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California, warned against
eliminating the waiting period. And Representative John Hostettler, the chairman
of the subcommittee, said he did not like the idea of any reduction in the
three-year waiting period.

He noted that the three-year wait for immigrant soldiers was already shorter
than that for civilian green-card holders, who must wait five years before
applying for citizenship.

"While noncitizens currently serve in our armed forces, they must demonstrate
their loyalty and their character for three years before they may become U.S.
citizens," said Mr. Hostettler, a Republican from Indiana.

On Wednesday, the committee members will debate the merits of the various
proposals, focusing on a seventh bill proposed by Representative F. James
Sensenbrenner Jr., the Wisconsin Republican who is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee.

He suggests a one-year waiting period. His bill would allow parents and spouses
of slain soldiers to apply immediately for citizenship. It would not, however,
give waivers for those close relatives who happen to be illegal immigrants or
who lack proper documents when the soldier dies. Without waivers, those people
are often ineligible for legal permanent residency and citizenship.

In the Senate, Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, has proposed a bill
that would reduce the waiting period to two years and would allow the immediate
family of slain soldiers -- regardless of their legal status -- to be eligible
for citizenship.

As the debate in Congress continues, Mr. Rincon's relatives are trying to cope
with their grief.

Mr. Rincon, who helped his father clean carpets, dreamed about becoming an
American citizen. He was given that privilege last month when he was granted
citizenship, posthumously at the age of 19.

"It was the best thing they could have done for my son," his father said in a
telephone interview from Georgia. "He loved this country. Until the last, he
felt like an American."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A photo of Pfc. Francisco Martinez Flores, a native of Mexico
who spent his life in Duarte, Calif., on the desk of Representative Hilda L.
Solis of California at a Congressional hearing on citizenship. He died in Iraq.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 7, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE SARS EPIDEMIC: PRECAUTIONS;
U.S. Approves Force in Detaining Possible SARS Carriers

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6


As part of the government's efforts to prevent an epidemic of SARS in the United
States, the Bush administration has authorized immigration and customs agents at
the nation's international airports to use force to detain arriving passengers
who appear to have symptoms of the disease, senior administration officials
said.

The Department of Homeland Security, which is responsible for immigration and
customs inspections at airports and other border crossings, has provided masks
and gloves to thousands of its airport inspectors in the last month as part of
the agency's effort to stem transmission of SARS, or severe acute respiratory
syndrome, which can be deadly.

At training sessions, officials said, the inspectors have been told that their
screening duties now go beyond passports and baggage and that they need to give
extra attention to the health of passengers arriving on 51 daily flights from
Asian cities where the SARS outbreak has been most severe, including Beijing,
Hong Kong and Singapore.

Officials said that the tightened screening procedures had gone into effect
gradually in the last few weeks and that, so far, no airline passengers had
required forcible detention, suggesting that the efforts of Asian governments
and major airlines to prevent passengers infected with SARS from boarding
trans-Pacific flights had been successful.

Under the new procedures, officials said, immigration and customs agents
identifying arriving passengers who appear to be ill with any SARS symptoms,
including high fever or breathing trouble, will be authorized to detain them and
summon health inspectors.

If SARS is confirmed, they said, the passenger would be moved to a hospital or
other medical facility and placed under mandatory quarantine. An executive order
signed last month by President Bush lets the government quarantine people
infected with SARS.

The immigration and customs agents have been told that they can decide for
themselves whether to wear the disposable masks and gloves.

"Obviously, our people are on the front line," said Robert C. Bonner, the
commissioner of customs and border protection. "And we have a duty to do. When
we know you're coming off a flight from an area where SARS is a concern, we're
going to be looking for signs and symptoms."

Mr. Bonner oversees the work of inspectors who, before the creation of the
Department of Homeland Security earlier this year, had worked for the Customs
Service, the Immgration and Naturalization Service, and the Border Patrol.

Another senior administration official said that while there had been no need so
far to detain ailing passengers arriving at American airports from overseas, the
government feared that the day would come soon when large numbers might need to
be stopped.

"We want our people to be ready to invoke this authority," said the official,
who is helping organize the administration's response to the disease. "We need
the message out there that travelers who arrive on our shores cannot bring this
disease with them. This is a national security issue."

The airport immigration and customs inspectors will provide backup to the teams
of federal public health inspectors who were dispatched to airports around the
United States after the initial reports of the SARS outbreak in Asia in March.

The Public Health Service inspectors have been meeting flights arriving from
SARS-affected countries in Asia -- both to hand out small information cards
about SARS and to give passengers an initial, if cursory, screening for signs of
illness.

Mr. Bonner said that his inspectors would be careful to differentiate between
passengers who might have SARS and those who might be suffering from other
illness with similar symptoms There is no test yet available to identify SARS
conclusively.

"We are paying attention to SARS," he said. "On the other hand, you don't want
to start quarantining or detaining everybody who gets off a plane and has a
cough."

Though inspectors at seaports and land border stations have been placed on alert
for SARS, there are no plans for similar screening procedures for passengers
arriving by sea or land. Few travelers arrive in this nation directly from
SARS-affected countries by any travel route other than air.

Administration officials said the most intense screening for possible cases of
SARS was taking place at the handful of large international airports that handle
the bulk of flights arriving in the United States from SARS-affected nations in
Asia: Los Angeles International, San Francisco International, Newark Liberty
International, Kennedy International in New York, Detroit Metro Airport and
O'Hare International in Chicago.

At Los Angeles International, Ana Hinojosa, who directs the work of all federal
customs, immigration and agricultural inspectors at the airport, said she was
"making an effort to keep everybody educated about SARS -- and I think it's gone
well."

Ms. Hinojosa said there had been a "few incidents that we've had to look at a
little more closely," in which a possibly ailing passenger had been identified
on arrival and had then voluntarily undergone health screening.

If a passenger resisted a screening and tried to leave the airport, "we do have
a policy on that," she said. "We would use our authority to detain them until
public health officials are available to make a final determination."

So far, Ms. Hinojosa said, that had not been necessary.

She said that she had not detected any special anxiety among inspectors who deal
with passengers arriving from Asia, and that immigration and customs inspectors
at the airport had not felt the need to wear masks and gloves.

At Newark, which has scheduled flights from Singapore and Malaysia, a few
inspectors have been anxious about their health and "have been putting on their
masks" when they deal with passengers arriving on flights from Asia, a
spokeswoman, Janet Rapaport, said.

"Basically," she said, "it's for those flights. Luckily, no federal inspector
has shown any symptoms."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A public health inspector at Los Angeles International Airport
distributed notices yesterday to passenger debarking a flight from Hong Kong.
(Monica Almeida/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 8, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Found Guilty of Identity Fraud

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 610 words


A Chinese immigrant was convicted yesterday of making false statements on
passport and immigration forms in what prosecutors described as an elaborate
scheme to impersonate a dead man.

The defendant, Shi Tian Wu, was accused of stealing the identity of Havelock
Woo, who died in New Jersey in 1988, to reap the benefits of his American
citizenship.

In finding Mr. Wu guilty after less than four hours of deliberation, the jury in
Federal District Court in Manhattan rejected his complicated story that he was
born Havelock Woo 75 years ago in New York, moved to China as a young boy and
lived there under harsh conditions before returning to the United States in
1992.

Federal prosecutors told the jury that after Mr. Wu assumed Havelock Woo's
identity, he began to petition the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
allow his family in China to come to the United States as relatives of an
American citizen, which would speed the process.

"There is nothing wrong with wanting your family to come here and live with you
in the United States," Glen G. McGorty, a federal prosecutor, told the jury this
week. "People have been coming to this country for a long time, bringing their
families in search of a better life.

"What is wrong, however, and in this case what is illegal, is the way the
defendant tried to do it," he said. Mr. Wu had lied to "get ahead of everyone
else who was playing by the rules."

Mr. Wu, who insisted that he was Havelock Woo, was convicted of making false
statements on passport and immigration documents, and of obtaining a passport to
which he was not entitled. The passport, for example, had his picture but
Havelock Woo's name, birth date and place of birth.

Mr. Wu was acquitted of a fourth charge of witness tampering. He had been
accused of trying to influence a woman he had recruited into his scheme to
continue to support his story, even as he was facing trial. He did not testify
in the trial, remained impassive as the jury announced its verdicts and had no
comment afterward.

His lawyer, Steven M. Statsinger, said, "We areterribly concerned about the
impact that the verdict will have on Mr. Wu and his family, and plan to appeal."

Mr. Wu remained free on bond yesterday pending his sentencing in August by Judge
Thomas P. Griesa.

Prosecutors did not tell the jury how they believed that Mr. Wu, who was born in
1931 in the Chinese province of Guangdong, chose the deceased Havelock Woo as
his target in the identity-theft scheme.

But sometime after he arrived in the United States in 1992, they said, he
methodically assumed Havelock Woo's identity, applying for a passport in that
name, and even going to court to have his name legally changed.

Mr. Wu's story, as he described it in various documents, was that while in
China, he began to call himself Shi Tian Wu, and gave himself a made-up birth
date to appear younger. That, he said, was necessary to escape persecution
directed at certain Americans who were over the age of 18. He also said his
family was treated harshly in the Cultural Revolution of the 1960's.

But Amy K. Orange, another prosecutor, told the jury: "The government does not
discount what Mr. Wu and his family went through. But it had nothing to do with
the fact that he was an American, because he wasn't."

In two of the more surreal episodes in the trial, Annemari Woo, the widow of the
actual Havelock Woo, testified for the government that the defendant was not her
husband and that her husband was dead. But the defense called the defendant's
wife to testify, and she said she knew him as Havelock Woo.

"The defendant asks you to suspend your common sense," Mr. McGorty said in his
summation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Shi Tian Wu did not testify in the trial, remained impassive as
the jury announced its verdicts and had no comment after it was over. (Shannon
Stapleton for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 10, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

AFTEREFFECTS: THE SEARCH FOR TERRORISTS;
Report Raises Questions on Success of Immigrant Interviews

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 9


Law enforcement officials have interviewed more than 3,000 Muslim and Arab
immigrants living in the United States as they have hunted for terrorists in the
months after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, a Congressional report has found.

The Justice Department, which coordinated the interviews, has hailed the effort
as a critical component in the campaign against terrorists. Officials say they
have obtained valuable intelligence information and used critical leads to help
disrupt suspected terrorist activities.

But department officials have yet to conduct a thorough assessment of the
program, which was hampered by unreliable information about the immigrants to be
questioned, Congressional investigators said. And the study, released today,
reported that the government's claims of success were difficult to substantiate.

By March, fewer than 20 of the immigrants interviewed had been arrested, and
most of those were charged with immigration violations, the study found. Three
people were arrested on criminal charges, but none appeared to have any links to
terrorism.
Questions about the value of the program have emerged among the federal and
local law enforcement officers assigned to the project.

Nearly half of the officers interviewed for the Congressional study expressed
concern about the questions used in the interviews and the value of the
responses.

In many cases, the officers said, nervous immigrants tried to avoid answers that
might attract further attention.
"The extent to which the interview project may have helped the government combat
terrorism is hard to measure," wrote the authors of the study, which was
conducted by the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress.

Government officials counter that the focus on numbers obscures the value of the
program. Some of the details that would demonstrate the efficacy of the program
are too sensitive to release, say officials who have declined to provide the
accounting office with concrete examples of the leads provided by immigrants
during the interviews.

The officials say they were hindered by the failure of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to keep track of arrivals, departures and the whereabouts
of immigrants living in the United States.

The officials say they have recognized that problem and introduced a new system
at airports and border crossings to track visiting immigrants from countries
considered breeding grounds for terrorism.

In addition to the interviews, noncitizens from those countries were called in
to register at immigration offices in recent months to provide the government
with critical information.

"The interview project has resulted in significant and useful leads," said Jorge
Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department. "The law enforcement officials
who conducted these interviews netted important intelligence information and had
a disruptive effect on terrorism."

Several law enforcement officials interviewed for the study supported the
government's position, saying that the program would be worthwhile even if only
one important lead emerged from it.

Immigration lawyers and advocates interviewed for the study said the interviews
were respectful and professional.

Officials seem to have missed many of the immigrants identified for questioning.

By March, only 3,216 of the 7,602 immigrants identified for questioning had been
interviewed, the report said.

But the government's list contained many duplicate names and data entry errors,
the investigators said, leaving officials uncertain about how many immigrants
still needed to be interviewed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 12, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Iranian Cyclist for Peace Begins Cross-Country Journey on Foot

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 11


The City of Angels became a little emptier this morning when Reza K. Baluchi
jogged up Figueroa Street, made a left on Sunset Boulevard, then turned toward
the Mojave Desert on his way to Ground Zero, N.Y..

The 3,000-mile run he began today is the last leg of a remarkable peace tour
that began in Iran six years ago on a bicycle, spanned six continents and
stalled in an American immigration jail.

Here is the short version.

Reza Baluchi was born in Rasht, in northern Iran near the Caspian Sea. The
youngest of eight, he learned the horror of violence when his brother returned
from the Iran-Iraq war a shattered and incoherent man.

As Mr. Baluchi grew older, he fell away from Islam, the state-sponsored religion
of Iran. On one occasion he was publicly flogged for eating during Ramadan, the
holy month in which Muslims fast during sunlight. On another occasion he was
hanged by his wrists from a tree for possessing a banned videotape and wearing a
Michael Jackson T-shirt. After serving 18 months in prison for associating with
"counterrevolutionaries," he left Iran on his bicycle.

He rode through civil wars. He went hungry. He did not wash for weeks and slept
wherever he laid his head. He worked when he could. A Colombian dentist fixed
his teeth for no charge. He made many friends, as his scrapbook attests.

Then last November, Mr. Baluchi, 30, was picked up by a Border Patrol helicopter
that found him camping in the Arizona desert. He was charged with entering the
United States illegally and thrown in immigration jail. He said at the time that
he was waiting for a visa in Mexico and had simply gotten lost.

He spent five months in jail, refusing bail, quite certain that if he could only
speak with the immigration judge, the judge would be convinced of Mr. Baluchi's
naivete and release him on humanitarian grounds.

Mr. Baluchi promised then that if the judge released him, he would finish his
peace journey on foot, running from Los Angeles to New York.

On Feb. 27, the immigration judge, LaMonte Freerks, granted Mr. Baluchi asylum
on the grounds that if he were returned to Iran he might be persecuted for,
among other things, his revolutionary belief that there should be separation
between church and state.

So this morning, Mr. Baluchi began the fulfillment of that jailhouse promise.
Wearing new shorts, new running shoes and a bad haircut, he said he carried no
hard feelings, no chip on his shoulder, only a knapsack filled with a tent and
reflective vest, nylon leggings, a sleeping bag, food, water and an A.T.M. card.

"I go by I self," he said in self-taught English. "New York. Everybody wait me
there. Soon. Soon. I come. Peace. No war. American people very good."

Mr. Baluchi will run eight hours and hopes to make 40 miles a day, regardless of
weather or topography. He will run across the Mojave Desert, then follow old
Route 66 through Arizona and New Mexico. He will run through Amarillo, Tex.;
Little Rock, Ark.; Memphis. He will veer north through the Blue Ridge Mountains,
head into Washington and finally reach New York City.

His resolve is steel, and he appears fit for the task, with thick, ropy legs and
calves the size of hams.

"It's sad he's leaving L.A. because he's one of the good men," said David
Hyslop, a struggling 47-year-old entrepreneur who, via e-mail, offered Mr.
Baluchi a sleeping space at the foot of his bed after reading about him in the
newspapers. Mr. Hyslop has become enamored with the man and the myth that is
Baluchi, even helping to arrange his cross-country route.

"With him the immigrants have a face," Mr. Hyslop said this morning. "It says
don't give up. The system sometimes works."

Mr. Baluchi is also something of a cult celebrity in the Iranian exile
community. Persian women came this morning to see him off and pose for pictures
with him. Anonymous donors have put money in his bank account. A man came to
sing him a farewell song in the mother tongue, a cappella.

Mr. Baluchi was expected to arrive somewhere in the Antelope Valley this
evening. But weep not, Los Angeles: he was to return, if only for a brief
moment, to appear live from the studios of Persian Syndicated Television. His
limousine was being arranged at press time.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Hyslop traced Mr. Baluchi's projected route across the
United States.; Reza K. Baluchi in Los Angeles yesterday, beginning a planned
3,000-mile run that he says will be the last leg of a journey for peace he began
six years ago on a bicycle. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York
Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 13, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Human Scene

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 69 words


To the Editor;

I burst into tears on seeing your May 9 photograph of the Spanish soldier
holding and warming a Moroccan immigrant, one of about 50 who had crossed to
Punta Paloma from Morocco in a small boat.

It was such a human picture in a world of inhumanity and violence.

I have framed it to remind me that there is hope in this mad and increasingly
vicious world.

ELENDER G. MEINECKE
Akron, Ohio, May 10, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 16, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scene of Horror and Despair in Trailer

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1374 words

DATELINE: VICTORIA, Tex., May 15


One woman, among the dozens of people trapped inside a tractor trailer outside
this sweltering southern Texas city, screamed over and over, "El nino!, el
nino!" El nino -- the boy -- was seven years old and had died in his father's
arms.

Others were lying still, Tyrone Williams, the driver of the truck, told agents
from the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement who are investigating the
deaths by asphyxiation and heatstroke of 18 people found on Wednesday in or near
the trailer at a truck stop outside Victoria.

The account by Mr. Williams was part of a criminal complaint filed in Houston
today by Steven E. Greenwill, a special agent with the bureau. Mr. Williams and
three other people were charged before Magistrate Judge Mary Milloy with
conspiracy to smuggle, transport and conceal undocumented immigrants.

The chief of police in Kingsville, 100 miles away, reported the heartbreaking
disclosure that someone with a cellphone inside the trailer had dialed 911
around midnight Wednesday and was connected to the Kingsville police station.
But because the dispatcher could not speak Spanish, the police there did not
respond to the call.

"There was a voice in Spanish crying for help, saying they were asphyxiating,
that we could barely make out above the road noise," the police chief, Samuel
Granato, said in a telephone interview. He provided federal investigators with a
digitally taped copy of the call. "Then it was cut off before we could make out
what was going on."

Mr. Williams, the truck driver, told investigators that a short time later, he
opened the trailer and found the horrific scene. "There appeared to be something
wrong with them," Mr. Williams told investigators. The complaint said he
panicked, unhooked the trailer and drove north to Houston, where he and a woman
went to the Twelve Oaks Medical Center. Mr. Williams checked himself in but the
woman fled. Nurses there described Mr. Williams as extremely anxious and
nervous.

Investigators arrested Mr. Williams in Houston late Wednesday and said he had
acknowledged taking $2,500 for transporting a group of illegal immigrants from a
rural location outside of Harlingen, on the border with Mexico, to Robstown,
farther north in Texas. He said en route, he got a cellphone call telling him he
would get another $2,500 to continue to the Houston area.

Eduardo Ibarrola, the counsel general of Mexico in Houston, who spoke with many
of the survivors, confirmed today that each of the victims paid "around $1,000
to $2,000" to be taken farther into Texas.

At some point, however, something went terribly awry. The complaint said Mr.
Williams, an independent truck driver from Schenectady, N.Y., said he first
noticed something was wrong as his truck approached Victoria around midnight on
Wednesday, several hours after leaving Harlingen.

In his rearview mirror, Mr. Williams saw a light dangling from his trailer and
pulled the truck over to investigate, when he heard banging and screaming from
inside the truck, according to the criminal complaint.

Inside the trailer, the scene was jarring, said one of the survivors, Oscar
Estrada, who said he was paying $1,000 to be smuggled into the United States
from Mexico. Mr. Estrada told investigators that a man and woman bought gallons
of water at the truck stop when they stopped near Victoria.

But when they opened the trailer and saw more than a dozen bodies, Mr. Estrada
said, the couple left the trailer doors open and began to unhook it from the
cab. As they did, many of the immigrants -- officials say there were perhaps
more than 100 packed inside -- fled into nearby fields.

The police from Victoria County found some of the survivors in and around this
city of 60,000. More than a dozen were hospitalized on Wednesday and treated for
heatstroke. Eight more were found near Victoria today and taken to the city's
community center.

"I became very full of emotion when I found out my son is alive," said Silverio
Gamez, 39, who drove here from Arlington, Tex., five hours away, where he works
at a company that makes office furniture. He said he spoke to his son, an
18-year-old also named Silverio, by telephone today.

"I asked him, 'My son, how do you feel?' " Mr. Gamez said in an interview in
Spanish. "He said, 'I feel good, I'm happy to be here.' " Mr. Gamez said his
son, whom he had not seen in eight years, was seeking a better life for himself
away from their home in San Luis Potosi, Mexico.

It was a brief discussion, Mr. Gamez said, but it was more contact than other
family members gathered outside the center today had with their relatives.
Federal prosecutors said they were not allowing family members to have personal
contact with the survivors because they were witnesses in a criminal
investigation.

One woman outside the community center, Francisca Barrios of Houston, confronted
Daniel Rodriguez, an official with the United States Attorney's office, which is
investigating the incident, about why she was not being allowed inside to see
three of her cousins whom she believed had been inside the trailer and survived.
The three men are also from San Luis Potosi, she said.

"I just wish they had the dignity to let me see my cousins," said Ms. Barrios,
49, who works at a nursing home in Houston. "It's the least they can do after
what they've been through."

The legal status of the survivors remains uncertain. Mr. Rodriguez said the
authorities were examining the immigrants case by case to determine whether they
should be deported.

"We're respecting the investigative process of United States officials," Mr.
Ibarrola, the Mexican consul, told reporters. Mr. Ibarrola said most of the
immigrants in the incident, including 13 who died, were Mexican. The others were
from El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras.

How dozens of people seeking entry into the United States became involved in a
fatally flawed smuggling incident remains a mystery. According to the criminal
complaint, Mr. Williams said that he was in the cab of the trailer outside
Harlingen while people boarded and that he could feel the truck rocking back and
forth as they did.

Mr. Williams said he was told two Hispanic men in Harlingen, named Joe and Abel,
had told him he would be transporting 16 immigrants in the trailer of his semi,
the complaint said. Mr. Williams told agents he was accompanied by a woman named
Fatima, from Ohio, who went with him to the hospital in Houston but fled before
the authorities arrived.

Michael Shelby, the United States attorney for the Southern District of Texas,
said this afternoon, "Our information, based upon our preliminary interviews
with the surviving victims, indicate they were in the trailer for less than 24
hours."

Joe, Abel and Fatima, their last names and whereabouts unavailable, were named
as co-defendants in the criminal complaint. The four face a maximum penalty of
10 years in prison on the charges. It is unclear whether additional charges,
including manslaughter, will be filed.

Mr. Williams was in custody in Houston pending a bail hearing in the days ahead.

In Schenectady, where Mr. Williams lived in a two-story yellow house in a
working-class neighborhood, his wife, Karen Williams, said: "I'm spending time
with my children. I don't have time to talk about this anymore."

Neighbors described the couple as good neighbors and said Ms. Williams was a
caring mother who raised the couple's two children while her husband was away
for long stretches.

In Victoria, the news seized the attention of residents. At Citizens Medical
Center, three survivors, ages 14, 15 and 17, touched a nerve with the staff,
fellow patients and members of the community.

Because the girls "didn't have anything when they came in here," the nursing
staff bought them clothes and gaily decorated flip-flops, said Melissa Purl, a
spokeswoman for the hospital. And some residents have showed up trying to donate
money.

Though the girls suffered extreme dehydration and heat exhaustion, hospital
officials expected them to be discharged soon.

"One thing one of the girls said is going to stick with me forever," Ms. Purl
said. "It's not as beautiful as it is in Spanish, but translated, she said, 'The
breath that I got when that trailer door was opened was the richest breath I've
ever had.' "

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lourdes Canos holding her baby in Pozos, a village in San Luis
Potosi, Mexico, after hearing her brother-in-law had died in a trailer in Texas.
Tyrone Williams, top left, the driver, at the courthouse in Houston.
(Photographs by Associated Press) Map of Texas highlighting Victoria: A trailer
with immigrants was left at a truck stop near Victoria, Tex.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

COMMUNITIES;
New Library Stocks Books With Immigrants in View

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 856 words

DATELINE: Dobbs Ferry


THERE are slim paperbacks, like the abridged versions of "The Joy Luck Club" by
Amy Tan and "Kramer vs. Kramer" by Avery Corman. There are books by Hispanic
authors with vibrantly colored covers, like "The House on Mango Street" by
Sandra Cisneros. There are imposing hardcover tomes, like "John Adams" by David
McCullough and "Seabiscuit" by Laura Hillenbrand. There are also practical
guidebooks, like "Mister Rogers' Parenting Book" and "An International Cookbook"
written and decorated by immigrant students.

These the brand-new volumes in the library at the Cabrini Immigrant Services at
Dobbs Ferry, which opened on Tuesday, are intended to be used by day laborers
and nannies rocking Westchester babies to sleep. They are meant for immigrants
like Genoveva Arizaga, an Ecuadorean baby sitter whose favorite author is
Gabriel Garcia Marquez.

"I love reading," Ms. Arizaga said, her eyes slipping over the few dozen books
stacked on the library shelves. "But sometimes I am scared of reading in
English. I am scared of not understanding."

In the last decade alone, according to Westchester County officials, about
50,000 workers have arrived in Westchester from more than a half-dozen Latin
American countries.

For many of them, life is a lonely monotony of working long hours, sending money
home and waiting for reunions with relatives. Occasional telephone calls home
are rare treats.

But life should be much more colorful, say the staff of the Cabrini Immigrant
Services at Dobbs Ferry. "If they are here in the U.S.," said Marianne McGowan,
the coordinator of the agency's English as a Second Language program, "they want
to become full members of the society."

Learning English is the key, but Ms. McGowan, a former public school teacher,
doesn't want the immigrants to learn English from just anybody.

"Good authors act as models of language for us," she said, her face glowing with
excitement. "I want my students to say: 'This is what good language sounds like.
This is what good language looks like. I can do this too."'

Besides teaching recent immigrants English, the Cabrini Immigrants Services, an
agency supported by the Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, helps
them file immigration papers, fights for back wages and dispenses practical
advice on how to live in America.

When Sister Patricia Spillane, a leader in the Catholic order, discovered a
savings certificate of $5,000 four years ago at her parents' home in the Bronx
after her father died, she donated the money to the Dobbs Ferry branch of the
order. It was Ms. McGowan's idea to found a library for the growing number of
immigrants.

Sister Patricia, whose parents had immigrated from Ireland as young adults, was
immediately enthusiastic. Her parents had been lifelong bibliophiles, she said.
She remembered going as a 4-year-old to the New York Public Library with her
father to check out her first book -- one on counting monkeys. She remembered
receiving a book as a present from her parents every Christmas.

For now, the immigrant library, housed in the agency's office, is three mostly
empty white bookshelves leaning against one wall. The 40 books that Ms. McGowan
bought on her last trip to the Barnes & Noble in Yonkers are neatly stacked and
carefully cataloged. She'll go back soon, with a shopping list topped by a an
English-Spanish dictionary.

She is hunting for more books that she thinks will spark conversations in the
E.S.L. classes at Cabrini, she said, like "On the Home Front" by Jack Clark, a
compilation of stories his mother told him that the library already owns.

"I am hoping that the students would read the book and say, 'I have stories,"'
Ms. McGowan said. "'This is what my mom told me when I was little."'

She has divided the books into two levels, with the easier readings, some with
Spanish translations, kept on two bookshelves and the more advanced readings on
a third. For now, she doesn't expect many students to check out, say, Stephen
King's "On Writing." Nor does she expect most of her students to gulp down whole
"The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe" by C.S. Lewis.

"Even if a student cannot read the whole thing," she said. "They can read a
story or just pick up a few phrases."

Humberto, an Ecuadorean construction worker who would not give his last name
because of his illegal status in this country, ogled the new books as he wrapped
up his one-on-one English tutorial last Tuesday. "I want to read," he said. "I
want to communicate better with others."

Reading List

 These are some of the books the new library at the Cabrini Immigrant Services
plans to acquire:

1. Merriam Webster Dictionary (English/Spanish)
2. "Immigration Made Easy," by Barbara Brooks Kimmel
3. "You Want Women to Vote, Lizzie Stanton?" by Jean Fritz (who lives in Dobbs
Ferry)
4. "Ordinary Resurrections," by Jonathan Kozol
5. "Sarah, Plain and Tall," by Patricia MacLachlan
6. "Jacob Have I Loved," by Katherine Paterson
7. "Stones From the River," by Ursula Hegi
8. "Every Living Thing," by Cynthia Rylant
9. "The Giant's House," by Elizabeth McCracken
10. "Harriett Beecher Stowe and the Beecher Preachers," by Jean Fritz

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sister Patricia Spillane, above, tells a story to a group at
the library. Marianne McGowan, forefront, and Kate Kvinikabze Guzman, arrange
bookshelves. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 19, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Service Remembers Immigrants Who Died of Heat

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 421 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 18


Jeannette Morales last spoke to her husband, Juan, five days before he was found
dead in a stifling trailer packed with immigrants last week.

"He just told me he was going to come home and Happy Mother's Day," Ms. Morales,
18, said of Juan Jose Morales, 23. "He didn't say when."

Ms. Morales joined more than 400 people today at a Mass to honor the victims and
to lend support to their relatives.

Mr. Morales had been visiting his mother in Mexico and needed a ride home to
Houston. He was not a United States citizen, but Jeannette Morales says she is.
They had an 18-month-old daughter.

Mr. Morales came to the United States more than two years ago, met her at a
dance and supported the family with construction jobs.

He joined 70 to 100 illegal immigrants in the trailer because he had ridden a
bus to Mexico and had no other means to return to Houston, Ms. Morales said.
Seventeen immigrants were found dead early Wednesday in or near the abandoned
trailer at a truck stop near Victoria, Tex., more than 100 miles southeast of
Houston. Two more died later, and initial autopsy reports show the causes as
dehydration, hypothermia and suffocation.

Eduardo Ibarrola, the Mexican consul general, said today that the more than 40
survivors from Mexico, Honduras and El Salvador who were transported to Houston
last week were in the custody of the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement. He said they were cooperating with investigators.

Marco Nunez, Mr. Ibarrola's press officer, said five survivors remained
hospitalized in Victoria. They will join the others in custody when released
from the hospital.

The authorities said 30 to 50 people were believed to have fled the trailer.

The truck driver who abandoned the trailer, Tyrone Williams, 32, was charged
last week with conspiracy to smuggle, transport and conceal illegal immigrants.

Mr. Williams remained in custody today and was scheduled to appear at a bond
hearing in Houston on Tuesday.

Court documents say Mr. Williams told the authorities that two men paid him
$2,500 to transport 16 illegal immigrants from the Mexican border in far South
Texas. He said he did not watch as they were loaded into his trailer on Tuesday
night, and after he discovered the dead, he unhitched the trailer and drove to
Houston.

Bishop Joe Vasquez, who led today's Mass, urged prayer for the victims and their
relatives.

"We want to pray for people's rights to be respected, for justice to be served
and cooperation of governments to ensure these things don't happen," Bishop
Vasquez said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeannette Morales, whose husband died in a trailer full of
immigrants last week in Texas, attended a memorial Mass yesterday in Houston.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 22, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Substance Leads to Penn Station Drama

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 162 words


A Liberian man who provoked the suspicions of the authorities on an Amtrak train
on Tuesday -- and spurred the partial evacuation of Pennsylvania Station in New
York -- was in federal custody last night facing a charge of illegal
immigration.

The man was identified by The Associated Press as Nasrat Youssef Kafal.

His luggage was searched because officials believed he might be carrying
hazardous materials.

An official close the investigation, who insisted on anonymity, said last night
that the suspicious substance turned out to be cooking oil.

But James Margolin, a spokesman for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said
Mr. Kafal did not have a valid visa when he was questioned on the train. As a
result, he was turned over to the federal Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, and could face deportation, Mr. Margolin said.

The incident resulted in widespread disruption for train passengers on Tuesday,
with Amtrak service halted for nearly three hours.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Behind Closed Doors

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 425 words


The Supreme Court decided this week not to weigh in on the important issue of
whether deportation hearings for immigrants suspected of ties to terrorism could
be held in secret. The decision may reflect the fact that the government is
reconsidering its use of closed deportation hearings. But whether by its own
choice or by court order, the government should stop conducting these sensitive
proceedings in secret.

The case that the Supreme Court declined to review was an appeal of a First
Amendment challenge to the government's blanket policy of closing "special
interest" deportation hearings. A group of New Jersey newspapers had argued that
the government should have to justify closing these hearings on a case-by-case
basis.

The newspapers lost before the United States Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, based in Philadelphia. But in a similar case, the United States Court
of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, which is based in Cincinnati, reached the
opposite conclusion, ordering that a secret deportation hearing be opened.

The Supreme Court had good reason to take this case because two federal appeals
courts sharply disagreed on an important constitutional question. But in its
legal papers, the government urged the court to stay out. It informed the court
that while there had once been more than 700 "special interest" detainees, more
than 600 of whom had closed hearings, there was now only one such detainee
facing a realistic possibility of immigration proceedings before a judge. And it
said it was currently reviewing its procedures for closing deportation hearings,
which would "likely be revised."

The government suggested that it would significantly reduce its use of closed
hearings in the future. It noted that the Justice Department had issued
temporary rules that allow immigration judges to use protective orders and
accept documents under seal, steps that could allow future proceedings to be
conducted in the open while sensitive information was kept confidential. This is
the right direction for the government to move. Instead of a blanket secrecy
rule, the government should keep proceedings closed only when there is a
specific threat, and it should restrict access only to the most sensitive
information.

The broad principle at stake here is that the public has a right to know what
goes on in federal legal proceedings, including deportation hearings. As the
Supreme Court itself observed in an opinion cited by the Sixth Circuit, an
informed public is "the most potent of all restraints upon misgovernment."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 31, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DETAINEES;
Report Said to Be Critical of Detentions Is Expected on Monday

BYLINE:  By ERIC LICHTBLAU

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 30


A government report due to be released next week is expected to criticize the
tactics and strategies the Justice Department used in detaining foreigners after
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, officials said today.

The report, by the Justice Department's inspector general, does not draw any
conclusions about the legality of the actions by the department or Attorney
General John Ashcroft, officials who have seen it said.

But the report does examine the legal rationale for detaining more than 700
foreigners after counterterrorism sweeps, along with their access to lawyers,
the length of their confinement and their treatment. Most of those held on
immigration violations after the attacks were deported, and very few were ever
linked to accusations of terrorism.

Government officials said the report was expected to provide new data showing
that dozens of mostly Middle Eastern men were confined for more than 90 days,
some without access to lawyers. The report is also expected to question the pace
with which the Justice Department resolved cases against those in detention and
whether immigration officials were pressured to detain suspects.

Members of Congress and civil liberties groups have been eager for the release
of the report.

Officials with the American Civil Liberties Union, who have met with the
inspector general's office about the report,said they expect that its findings
should buttress their complaints that prosecutors have run roughshod over civil
liberties in their pursuit of terrorists.

Justice Department officials would not comment.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 1, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

ECONOMIC VIEW;
Putting APrice on Immigration Backlogs

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words


THE economy needs immigrants. As the native-born work force ages, new arrivals
will be a mainstay of growth. Yet almost two years after the 9/11 terrorist
attacks, the nation is still having a hard time dealing with would-be Americans.

Apart from a surge in the summer of 2001, the number of requests for work
permits, permanent resident status and citizenship has been relatively steady,
at about a half-million a month, for the last several years. But statistics
released this month by the Department of Homeland Security show that the backlog
of applications waiting for approval ballooned to more than 5 million in March
of this year from a 32-month low of 2.9 million in February 2001.

"After the events of Sept. 11, additional screening requirements were put into
place," said Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman for the Bureau of Citizenship
and Immigration Services. "All the applications for immigration benefits have to
be checked against certain law enforcement databases. That has indeed slowed the
processing time for immigration benefits applications."

Though the economy clearly benefits from a certain measure of caution about who
crosses the country's borders, it also suffers when the flow is stanched.

Immigration accounted for 40 percent of the population's growth during the
1990's, according to the Census Bureau. Historically, population growth by
itself has been an important contributor to economic growth. But in addition,
immigrants tend not to be elderly, so they are likely to join the work force.
When they do so legally, they help to support the huge wave of retirees soon to
receive Social Security and Medicare benefits.

The biggest benefits of immigration, however, may be more fundamental.

"Immigrants benefited this country even before we had a Social Security system,"
said Gary S. Becker, a professor of economics and sociology at the University of
Chicago who won a Nobel in economics in 1992. "You bring people in who have good
skills, who want to come to this country, who are hard workers, who have
ambitions for their children. Those types of people, with their ambition,
creativity and knowledge, help us all."

Professor Becker said he hoped the screening of potential immigrants for
terrorists would not reduce immigration. Indeed, Mr. Bentley said, his agency is
trying to use automation and training to reduce waiting times to a maximum of
six months.

But any company that is seeking to bring in specific people for work can already
shorten the process to a matter of weeks -- for a price.

Since June 2001, the immigration authorities have offered a "premium processing
service" to businesses for more than a dozen types of work permits and visas.
For a fee of $1,000 a request, the nation's gatekeepers will deal with an
application in just 15 calendar days. Big users of the service have included
biotechnology and electronics companies eager to bring in highly skilled workers
from abroad, Mr. Bentley said.

Professor Becker applauded the idea of a price-based system for immigration.

"It's a good mechanism," he said. "I'd like to see greater use of a market
mechanism more generally."

THE United States already allows extremely wealthy people to buy their way in. A
foreign investor who contributes at least $500,000 to a business here can get
permanent resident status, as long as that investment appears to create at least
10 jobs.

Of course, this is not fair. Like the premium processing program, the
immigration-through-investment program is meant to cherry-pick people whose
places in the economy are ready-made.

But, putting aside any concerns about fairness, the premium processing program
poses another big problem. It may actually be a major cause of the system's huge
backlog in routine cases.

In February, the Justice Department released an audit report on the program. As
in any organization with a limited budget, moving time and resources into one
area appears to have meant taking them away from another one.

"The premium processing program has adversely affected the time required to
adjudicate routine applications and petitions," the auditors wrote. "A program
whose purpose was ultimately to reduce or eliminate adjudications backlogs may
be having the unintended consequence of increasing at least some of those
backlogs."

From an economic point of view, those routine cases merit some concern. The
wealthy investors and workers who are lined up for high-paying jobs may not
always make the best immigrants, by Professor Becker's logic. Most likely,
they've already achieved many of their ambitions.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Longer Line"Pending applications for work permits, permanent
residency and citizenship. Graph tracks applications from 2000-2003. (Source:
Office of Immigration Statistics)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES;
Excerpt From Analysis of Detention of Foreigners After 9/11 Attacks

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1397 words


Following is an excerpt from the conclusion of a report by the Justice
Department's inspector general, Glenn A. Fine, on the detention of hundreds of
immigrants after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. The text is online at
nytimes.com/washington.

In the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the Department of Justice
used the federal immigration laws to detain aliens who were suspected of having
ties to the attacks or terrorism in general. More than 750 aliens who had
violated immigration laws were arrested and detained in connection with the
F.B.I.'s investigation into the attacks, called Penttbom. Our review examined
the treatment of these detainees, including their processing, bond decisions,
the timing of their removal or release, their access to counsel and their
conditions of confinement. To examine these issues, we focused on the detainees
held at the B.O.P.'s Bureau of Prison's Metropolitan Detention Center (M.D.C.)
in Brooklyn, N.Y., and at the Passaic County Jail in Paterson, N.J., because the
majority of Sept. 11 detainees were held in these two facilities, and because
many complaints arose regarding their treatment.

In conducting our review, we were mindful of the circumstances confronting the
department and the country as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks, including the
massive disruptions they caused. The department was faced with monumental
challenges, and department employees worked tirelessly and with enormous
dedication over an extended period to meet these challenges.

It is also important to note that nearly all of the 762 aliens we examined
violated immigration laws, either by overstaying their visas, by entering the
country illegally or some other immigration violation. In other times, many of
these aliens might not have been arrested or detained for these violations.
However, the Sept. 11 attacks changed the way the department, particularly the
F.B.I. and the I.N.S., responded when encountering aliens who were in violation
of their immigration status. It was beyond the scope of this review to examine
the specific law enforcement decisions regarding who to arrest or detain.
Rather, we focused primarily on the treatment of the aliens who were detained.

While recognizing the difficult circumstances confronting the department in
responding to the terrorist attacks, we found significant problems in the way
the Sept. 11 detainees were treated. The I.N.S. did not serve notices of the
immigration charges on these detainees within the specified time frames. This
delay affected the detainees in several ways, from their ability to understand
why they were being held, to their ability to obtain legal counsel, to their
ability to request a bond hearing.

In addition, the department instituted a policy that these detainees would be
held until cleared by the F.B.I. Although not communicated in writing, this
"hold until cleared" policy was clearly understood and applied throughout the
department. The policy was based on the belief, which turned out to be
erroneous, that the F.B.I.'s clearance process would proceed quickly. Instead of
taking a few days as anticipated, the clearance process took an average of 80
days, primarily because it was understaffed and not given sufficient priority by
the F.B.I.

We also found that the F.B.I. and the I.N.S. in New York City made little
attempt to distinguish between aliens who were subjects of the Penttbom
investigation and those encountered coincidentally to a Penttbom lead.

Even in the chaotic aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks, we believe the F.B.I.
should have taken more care to distinguish between aliens who it actually
suspected of having a connection to terrorism from those aliens who, while
possibly guilty of violating federal immigration law, had no connection to
terrorism but simply were encountered in connection with a Penttbom lead.
Alternatively, by early November 2001, when it became clear that the F.B.I.
could not complete its clearance investigations in a matter of days or even
weeks, the department should have reviewed those cases and kept on the list of
Sept. 11 detainees only those for whom it had some basis to suspect a connection
to terrorism.

The F.B.I.'s initial classification decisions and the untimely clearance process
had enormous ramifications for the Sept. 11 detainees. The department instituted
a "no bond" policy for all Sept. 11 detainees. The evidence indicates that the
I.N.S. raised concerns about this blanket "no bond" approach, particularly when
it became clear that the F.B.I.'s clearance process was slow and the I.N.S. had
little information in many individual cases on which to base its continued
opposition to bond. The I.N.S. also raised concerns about the legality of
holding aliens to conduct clearance investigations after they had received final
orders of removal or voluntary departure orders. We found that the department
did not address these legal issues in a timely way.

The F.B.I.'s classification of the detainees and the slow clearance process also
had important ramifications on their conditions of confinement. Many aliens
characterized by the F.B.I. as "of high interest" to the Sept. 11 investigation
were detained at the M.D.C. under highly restrictive conditions. While the
F.B.I.'s classification decisions needed to be made quickly and were based on
less than complete information, we believe the F.B.I. should have exercised more
care in the process, since it resulted in the M.D.C. detainees' being kept in
the highest security conditions for a lengthy period. At the least, the F.B.I.
should have conducted more timely clearance checks, given the conditions under
which the M.D.C. detainees were held.

Our review also raised various concerns about the treatment of these detainees
at the M.D.C. For example, we found that M.D.C. staff frequently, and
mistakenly, told people who inquired about a specific Sept. 11 detainee that the
detainee was not held at the facility when, in fact, the opposite was true. In
addition, the M.D.C.'s restrictive and inconsistent policies on telephone access
for detainees prevented them from obtaining legal counsel in a timely manner.

With regard to allegations of abuse, the evidence indicates a pattern of
physical and verbal abuse by some correctional officers at the M.D.C. against
some Sept. 11 detainees, particularly during the first months after the attacks.
Although most correctional officers denied any such physical or verbal abuse,
our interviews and investigation of specific complaints developed evidence that
abuse had occurred.

We also concluded that, particularly at the M.D.C., certain conditions of
confinement were unduly harsh, such as illuminating the detainees' cells for 24
hours a day. Further, we found that M.D.C. staff failed to inform M.D.C.
detainees in a timely manner about the process for filing complaints about their
treatment.

The Sept. 11 detainees held at Passaic had much different, and significantly
less harsh, experiences than the M.D.C. detainees. The Passaic detainees were
housed in the facility's general population and treated like other I.N.S.
detainees held at the facility. Although we received some allegations of
physical and verbal abuse, we did not find evidence of a pattern of abuse at
Passaic as we did at the M.D.C. However, we found that the I.N.S. did not
conduct sufficient and regular visits to Passaic to ensure the conditions of
confinement were appropriate.

In sum, while the chaotic situation and the uncertainties surrounding the
detainees' connections to terrorism explain some of these problems, they do not
explain them all. We believe the department should carefully consider and
address the issues described in this report, and we therefore offered a series
of recommendations regarding the systemic problems we identified in our review.

They include recommendations to ensure a timely clearance process; timely
service of immigration charges; careful consideration of where to house
detainees with possible connections to terrorism, and under what kind of
restrictions; better training of staff on the treatment of these detainees; and
better oversight of the conditions of confinement. We believe these
recommendations, if fully implemented, will help improve the department's
handling of detainees in other situations, both larger scale and smaller scale,
that may arise in the future.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE DETROIT TRIAL;
2 Arabs Convicted and 2 Cleared Of Terrorist Plot Against the U.S.

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM; Caitlin Nish contributed to this report.

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 3


Two Arab immigrants were convicted in federal court here today in a terrorist
plot against American airports, military bases and landmarks like Disneyland.
Two other defendants were acquitted of terrorism charges.

The verdicts, reached after nine weeks in the courtroom and nearly seven days of
deliberations, came in what was the government's first major terrorism trial
since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks.

Although mixed, the results were hailed by federal prosecutors, including
Attorney General John Ashcroft, as a victory in the war on terror.

"Today's convictions send a clear message," Mr. Ashcroft said. "The Department
of Justice will work diligently to detect, disrupt and dismantle the activities
of terrorist cells in the United States and abroad."

But defense lawyers said the acquittals raised questions about whether the four
men really formed the "sleeper operational combat cell" that the government
described. William Swor, one of the defense lawyers, said the government's case
was deficient. But Mr. Swor said closing arguments by prosecutors, who invoked
something akin to civic duty in asking jurors to convict the defendants, helped
overcome that.

"I'm sure they were afraid of letting everyone go on everything," Mr. Swor said
of the jury. "There's certainly no evidence."

Abdel-Ilah Elmardoudi, 37, and Karim Koubriti, 24, both Moroccans, were
convicted of providing material support or resources to terrorists and
conspiracy to engage in fraud and misuse of visas, permits and other documents.
Mr. Elmardoudi could receive up to 20 years in jail and also faces federal
charges in Minneapolis related to the theft of telephone card numbers in the
airport there. Mr. Koubriti faces 10 years in jail.

Ahmed Hannan, 34, a Moroccan, was found guilty of one count of conspiracy
involving document fraud, while Farouk Ali-Haimoud, 22, an Algerian, was
acquitted of all charges.

Some of the defendants wept as the verdicts were read -- with bitterness or
relief, depending on their personal outcome. Mr. Ali-Haimoud wept profusely, as
did his mother, the only family member present.

Shortly after the verdicts, Judge Gerald E. Rosen of Federal District Court
signed an order for the release of Mr. Ali-Haimoud, who had been held for more
than a year.

Mr. Hannan, convicted of a fraudulent document conspiracy charge, faces up to
five years in jail, prosecutors said. Appeals are expected in all three
convictions.

Three of the jurors agreed to speak to reporters in court after the trial but
did not identify themselves. One juror, when asked if the continuing campaign
against terrorism affected deliberations, said, "Not at all."

"We totally separated 9/11, the war on terrorism, from what we were doing," she
said. "We were focused on what we had in front of us."

Prosecutors said the four men made up a secretive group that spoke in code,
cased airports in Detroit and Chicago for security lapses and considered
obtaining Stinger missiles to shoot down commercial airplanes, among other
plans.

Defense lawyers derided the deal that the government struck with its main
witness, Youssef Hmimssa, a 32-year-old Moroccan who had been an associate of
the men. In the deal, Mr. Hmimssa received 46 months in prison for 10 unrelated
felonies committed in three states; he could have faced up to 81 years.

"Some of the things he said we believed, and some of the things he said we
didn't believe," the juror said. She said that for Mr. Ali-Haimoud, "we didn't
feel there was enough evidence against him to convict him."

The case began just six days after the Sept. 11 attacks, when federal agents
raided an apartment in Dearborn, a suburb of Detroit that has the nation's most
concentrated Arab- American community.

The apartment had once been occupied by an Arab immigrant on the government's
terror watch list. Instead of finding the man they were looking for, agents
found three of the defendants, but not Mr. Elmardoudi, who lived in Chicago. The
three men, who had all been employed at Detroit Metropolitan Airport, were found
with a cache of forged passports and identification papers, and more than 100
audiotapes advocating extremist views or holy war.

Agents also found a day planner with crude sketches that prosecution witnesses
said included an outline of an American air base in Turkey used to patrol Iraq's
no-fly zone, as well as a sketch of a military hospital in Jordan. And they
found what looked like a tourist's videotape that prosecutors contended was
pointedly interspersed with video of a few prominent sites meant as potential
targets, including Disneyland, the MGM Grand in Las Vegas and The New York Times
building.

Prosecutors called Mr. Elmardoudi the leader. He was carrying $83,000 when he
was caught last November in North Carolina. The government said that he received
wire transfers from men overseas whom he referred to as "the brothers," and that
when he spoke to the three other defendants he sometimes used a code involving
members of the 1986 Moroccan national soccer team; each represented credit or
phone card numbers.

Defense lawyers said much of the evidence never clearly tied any of the
defendants to anything terror-related. They argued that the videotape was what
it appeared to be, a tourist video, and presented evidence to show that the day
planner had once belonged to a mentally ill man who claimed to be a general.

"Is it about winning cases or about protecting the American people?" Richard
Helfrick, a lawyer for Mr. Koubriti, said in his closing argument. "We want the
government to make sure they prosecute real terrorists."

James Thomas, the lawyer for Mr. Hannan, said the defendants had not rejected
the authority of the courts, unlike other prominent terror defendants in the
past.

"These guys were not that way," Mr. Thomas said. "They subjected themselves to
the power of the court, conducted themselves well and worked with their
lawyers."

Other terror cases have been more high profile, though the Detroit case is the
first to result in a courtroom trial. Zacarias Moussaoui is still awaiting trial
as a conspirator in the Sept. 11 attacks. The so-called shoe bomber, Richard
Reid, was sentenced to life in prison in January after pleading guilty to trying
to set off an explosive in his shoe on a trans-Atlantic flight. Six Yemeni men
in the Buffalo suburb of Lackawanna have also pleaded guilty to terror charges;
the men were said to be part of a terror cell. Some of the men trained at a camp
run by Al Qaeda and even met with Osama bin Laden. The government last month
accused a seventh man of being part of the cell.

This case did not arouse the emotion that other recent events have among
Arab-Americans -- the Iraq war sparked ebullient celebrations from
Iraqi-Americans and protests from other Arab-Americans. In fact, on many days,
four rows of benches in the courtroom were largely empty except for a few
journalists.

Haaris Ahmad, the executive director of the Michigan branch of the Council on
American Islamic Relations said some people felt intimidated to visit federal
court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A jury acquitted, from left, Ahmed Hannan and Farouk
Ali-Haimoud of terrorism and convicted Abdel-Ilah Elmardoudi and Karim Koubriti.
(Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. A21)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Immigration Bill Advances

BYLINE:  By Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 48 words


The House approved a measure that would speed the pace of naturalization for
noncitizens in the military.

The bill, which passed 414 to 5, would allow immigrant soldiers to apply for
citizenship after serving one year. The current waiting period is three years.
Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 6, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Crackdown on Imports Is Felt in Dairy Aisles

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 575 words


Like countless specialty groceries scattered across New York, the Gourmet Plaza
in Brighton Beach is a neighborhood favorite for immigrants hungry for a taste
of home. Russian pop music throbs as shoppers navigate the store's crowded
aisles, inspecting Cyrillic-lettered price tags and buying Russian cheese.

But dairy cases here and across the state have been less full ever since a
recent state crackdown on illegally imported milk, cheese, yogurt and butter.

The New York State Attorney General's office said yesterday that it had fined
one food distributor and 18 markets for selling dairy products that failed to
meet New York's labeling and regulatory standards.

The offending products -- from France, Russia, Israel and Eastern Europe --
posed health risks to consumers and were competing unfairly with domestic dairy
producers, whose products undergo rigorous and expensive inspections, Attorney
General Eliot Spitzer said.

In addition, much of the dairy packaging lacked expiration dates and did not
list nutritional contents or ingredients in English, as state law requires.

"Some of it came in legally, some of it came in illegally," said an assistant
attorney general, Alan Berkowitz. "Some of it, we don't know."

The state began a four-month investigation after a domestic milk producer
complained that more and more retail stores were selling foreign dairy products.
The markets found to be selling illegal goods were fined $100 to $500 and agreed
to stop selling the illegal imports.

The distributor, East Coast Foods in Brooklyn, was fined $7,500, according to a
list provided by the attorney general's office.

Efforts to reach the distributor by telephone were unsuccessful.

The owner of Gourmet Plaza, on Brighton Beach Avenue, said he had no idea he had
been selling illegal imports. The owner, Eugene, who insisted that his last name
not be printed, said distributors often mislead specialty markets.

"They told me that this is legal, that they bought it in a legal way," he said.
"I believed them. The people importing it into the U.S.A., they don't care. They
just want to make money."

Down the avenue at the Gastronome Odessa market, employees said it was too soon
to say whether customers would miss the imported yogurt and sour cream they had
to pull from the shelves.

Apart from the authentic pastries and lower prices, shoppers patronize specialty
markets to buy brands they've known much of their lives.

"The Russian people that came out of Russia 20 years ago want to refresh their
memory," Eugene said. "They lived all their life in Russia, and they still want
to get the taste."

To look at the dairy counter at Gourmet Plaza is to be transported back to
Moscow, said 27-year-old Kathy Moiseyeva.

"It's absolutely the same," she said.

Ronnie Khon, a customer at the Kosher Grocery in Brooklyn, which was fined $500,
applauded the attorney general's crackdown. Mr. Khon said it was important to
protect dairy farmers from unfair foreign competition.

Mr. Khon said he had been a distributor who imported food from Israel and was
aghast at the behavior of other importers.

"They used to change the date, to put another two months on it," Mr. Khon said.
"You cheat the customer, and you can be sick on it."

A Kosher Grocery employee, Ronnie Halevy, was unfazed. He said he preferred
Israeli imports.

"The Americans don't know how to make meat or cheese," Mr. Halevy said. "The
taste, the texture is different. You've got to taste it."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many immigrants go to the Gourmet Plaza in Brighton Beach for
food from their native countries. "The Russian people that came out of Russia 20
years ago want to refresh their memory," the owner said. (John-Marshall Mantel
for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Back Page: Palmer Raids Redux;
The Pursuit of Immigrants in America After Sept. 11

BYLINE:  By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 956 words


TERRORISM, for America, may be a new threat, but according to a Justice
Department report last week, Attorney General John Ashcroft has employed some
old, discredited, means to fight it.

The report, on the detention of 762 people on immigration charges in the wake of
the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, was issued by Glenn A. Fine, the department's
inspector general. It found that immigration laws were misused to establish a
system to hold people, sometimes in exceptionally harsh settings, rather than
charge them. The detentions were often supported by flimsy evidence and
inconsistent criteria. Those detained were mostly Arab and Muslim men.

Mr. Ashcroft has consistently defended what he has called "aggressive arrest and
detention tactics in the war on terror" as needed to protect Americans. And the
government didn't approach the scale of the abuses in the last century, when
large numbers of people were detained solely because of their politics or
ancestry.

In the Palmer raids of 1920, for instance, thousands of people, mostly
immigrants, were rounded up in cities across America on suspicion of holding
radical views. Many were beaten, held in intolerable conditions and forced to
sign confessions. During World War II, about 110,000 people of Japanese
ancestry, many of them American citizens, were held in internment camps.

"We're probably much more sensitive to civil liberties than the country has ever
been," said Cass R. Sunstein, a law professor at the University of Chicago.

But if the number of people detained after the Sept. 11 attacks was relatively
small, the Justice Department's tactics were surprisingly similar to earlier
discredited practices.

David Cole, a law professor at Georgetown and the author of a forthcoming book,
"Enemy Aliens," said that the Justice Department rounded up people on mere
suspicion. "Many of the people were locked up without any actual evidence of
involvement in terrorism," he said.

The problem, said Eric L. Muller, a law professor at the University of North
Carolina and the author of "Free to Die for Their Country: The Story of the
Japanese American Draft Resisters of World War II" (University of Chicago,
2001), is that thoughtful and measured analysis of the available data,
particularly in the aftermath of a national emergency, is too much to ask of the
government.

There is a place, he said, for taking account of information about race or
ethnicity, along with all of the other data available in modern law enforcement,
in making judgments about an individual. But using race or ethnicity as the
whole of the analysis is unacceptable, he said.

Professor Muller has concluded, however, that the people charged with
implementing these more subtle judgments may not be up to the job.

"It's not the case that after 9/11 national origin had nothing to do with a
personalized suspicion," he said. "But we're not good yet in confining our uses
of race and ethnicity to very moderated, limited intrusions. We just don't do it
very well. We can't trust ourselves to do a little bit of racial profiling."

Nor does having a large modern intelligence apparatus necessarily mean having
good intelligence or analysis to guide law enforcement.

"One of the things this report reveals," Professor Cole said, "is that Ashcroft
was shooting in the dark and virtually every one of his shots missed."

None of the detainees discussed in the report were charged with engaging in or
aiding terrorism, though nearly all were guilty of overstaying visas, entering
the country illegally or other immigration violations. Most have been deported,
some after long periods of unwarranted detention.

Public outcry over such restrictions on liberty has been substantial. But much
of it has been focused on the few American citizens who have been detained,
including Yasser Esam Hamdi and Jose Padilla, the two Americans labeled "enemy
combatants" and held incommunicado for involvement with terrorist groups. Far
less attention has been given the roughly 600 prisoners captured during the war
in Afghanistan and held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

Eric M. Freedman, a law professor at Hofstra University, hopes the inspector
general's report will start to change that. He said that the problems revealed
in the immigration detentions cast "renewed doubt on the soundness of the
reasons for holding the Guantanamo people, who were picked up just as randomly
but lack any sort of process whatsoever to check on the mistakes."

A mixed verdict on Tuesday in Detroit, where two Arab immigrants were convicted
of supporting a terrorist plot against airports, military bases and landmarks,
while two others were cleared, also raised questions about the role the men's
backgrounds and political views played in the jury's decision. The prosecution
relied in part on what looked like a tourist's videotape that included prominent
sites like Disneyland.

"At the very least," said Peter Margulies, a law professor at Roger Williams
University, "in this climate, evidence like the video that might be harmless in
other contexts may, as a practical matter, shift the burden of proof from the
government to the defendant. It is also possible that a jury may consider the
video in conjunction with the ethnicity or nationality of the defendants, and
draw inferences that are both completely impermissible and virtually impossible
to combat."

It is surely unfair to judge the government's conduct only in hindsight. A
national security threat naturally elicits a rapid and possibly risky response
from the executive branch.

At the same time, Professor Sunstein said, the historical record is pretty
clear: "In retrospect, generally it seems we engage in civil liberties
violations that there was insufficient reason to engage in."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 11, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Russians Are Coming, Stepping Lightly

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1382 words


The brothers Atanasov -- Dimitre, Vladimir and Alex -- grumble about their
after-school lessons like typical American boys; in their case, boys who are
being forced to take up to five hours a week of ballroom-style dance lessons.

"I'm there 24/7," said Dimitre, who will not even tell his friends at Dyker
Heights Intermediate School that he spends his afternoon dancing. "I spend more
time there than at home."

But the brothers, children of an immigrant from the former Soviet Union, do not
dance like typical American boys. The other day Dimitre, who is 14; Vladimir,
12; and Alex, 9, spun three stylish girls across the gleaming wood floor of
King's DanceSport Center, an island of elegance in the jostling streets of
Midwood, Brooklyn.They did a rumba to the music of "Skylark" and a jive dance to
Ellington's rendition of "Take the A Train." The couples were not just counting
steps but doing splits and raising legs in the air with Astaire-like panache.

The brothers are graceful evidence of how immigrants from the former Soviet
Union and the Soviet-bloc lands are infusing new life into ballroom dancing. A
telling result is that in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, immigrants from
the former Soviet Union now own 11 of the 23 Fred Astaire dance studios, the
chain of franchises Astaire founded in 1947. And there are an additional hundred
or so Russians who teach in the 89 other Astaire studios around the country.

The Russian dominance of ballroom dancing stems from an influx in the last
decade of exquisitely trained dancers from the former Soviet Union who have
migrated to the United States seeking greater financial rewards for their
skills. In the process, the Russians are spurring something of a revival of
cheek-to-cheek dancing.

"Ballroom dancing has increased in popularity and a big factor are immigrants,"
said Archie C. Hazelwood, president of the United States Amateur Ballroom
Dancing Association, the governing body for competitive ballroom dancing known
as DanceSport. "It's helped a lot to have so many people coming in who not only
know ballroom dancing but appreciate it and are very dedicated to it."

Immigrants from the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe have become the
luminaries of professional and amateur competition in the United States and have
elevated its quality, executing their rumbas and waltzes with a grace, flourish
and precision rarely seen here since Astaire's heyday. They have dressed up
their moves with Fosse-like angling of the hips and shoulders, giving dance more
of a postmodern edge. "This is extremely athletic, very energetic," said Steve
Malanga, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute who is one of the organizers
of the Manhattan Amateur Classic run by the dancing association. "It's almost in
your face. That's something they've contributed to."

In Brooklyn's Russian neighborhoods and in New Jersey's suburbs, Russian
instructors have started a dozen schools where hundreds of children learn
sambas, waltzes and mambos while their ambitious mothers fret in the waiting
room. Many of them are training for a swirl of local competitions and are the
seeds of a more expansive future for dancing.

Most of these students are children of immigrants from Russia or the former
Soviet Union. But at Brooklyn College, Sergei Nabatov, a 48-year-old Ukrainian
and onetime international champion, offers four classes of a one-credit course
in ballroom dancing. It is popular with garden-variety Americans as well as
students born in the Dominican Republic, Israel and Colombia.

At 8 o'clock one recent morning -- not exactly waltz time -- Mr. Nabatov put 37
smartly dressed students, some of them still hobbled by the gawkiness of youth,
through a series of swirling rumbas and lindys. It was their finals, and Mr.
Nabatov was grading them. The students seemed to relish the test in a way they
probably would not have had it been in organic chemistry.

"I was a girl who sat out dances," said Julia Mach, a 19-year-old whose parents
immigrated from Vietnam. "Now I enjoy it so much, the feeling you get when you
can match the mood and the music. I love it."

The Russians here were born to dance. In the countries of the former Soviet
Union, reflecting traditions that paradoxically may have their roots in the
great czarist balls, children take dance lessons in the first grade and continue
at least through the fourth grade.

Afterward, many parents send children for lessons. Just as for gymnastics, the
Soviet Union set up rigorous dance programs for the most promising young people
so they could shine in international competition. Even now, dance contests are
often on television.

Dr. Anna Shternshis, an assistant professor at the University of Toronto who
studies popular Russian culture, said the interest in dancing as an expression
of what she called culturedness was especially strong among Russian Jews.

In the Soviet Union, they were often barred from religious expression so they
adopted secular expressions, filling their homes with books and giving their
children music and dance lessons, she said.

Russian parents here are often too burdened carving out new lives to spend money
on dance lessons for themselves. But they enroll their children in schools.
"It's better than sitting at the computer all day long," said Irina Atanasov,
the Russian-born mother of the dancing Atanasovs. She is a professional dancer
and her Bulgarian-born husband, Dimitre, manages a Fred Astaire studio on East
43rd Street in Manhattan.

The elder Dimitre tried to explain the lure of ballroom dancing. The studio he
manages offers lessons to single people who want to dance without stumbling too
badly or seasoned couples who want to put a little romance back into their
lives.

"Most of these guys have never held a woman in their arms dancing," he said of
some of his students. "I had a Wall Street executive. He juggles millions of
dollars on the exchange, but when he steps on the dance floor he is like someone
in Madame Tussaud's wax museum."

Former champions like Taliat Tarsinov, who with his wife, Marina, owns the Fred
Astaire studio on East 86th Street in Manhattan, have brought a professional
polish and intelligence to the world of dance instruction.

"When I teach a couple ballroom dancing, I tell them it will be a reflection of
life," he said. "I will teach you how to lead and follow, how to give each other
space so everybody will feel comfortable, how to be next to each other but not
in the way of each other."

But they are learning some of their capitalist skills from Americans. "We're
learning how to run business, how to be successful, how to make dance studio a
hot spot," Mr. Tarsinov said. "We Russians don't know how to sell and we like to
learn."

Instructors like Mr. Tarsinov do not run studios just to prepare people for
weddings and bar mitzvahs; they train dancers for competition. At his studio,
Mr. Tarsinov was working on subtly refining the moves of Felipe Telona Jr., a
Californian of Latino descent, and his wife, Carolina Orlovsky, a Russian born
in Canada, for the Manhattan DanceSport Championships, which will be held in
early July at the Regent Wall Street hotel.

Once they learn the basics, young adults like the students in Mr. Nabatov's
class at Brooklyn College can go to nightclubs like Roxy or Swing 46 in
Manhattan and Astoria in Bay Ridge to try out their skills. At least some of the
dances at those clubs can be classified as ballroom.

But ballroom dancing has yet to catch on with American teenagers and younger
children. "The big struggle is to get kids born in America to start," Mr.
Malanga said. "They think it's weird, their friends will make fun of them. By
contrast, in the Russian community it's cool to do this. I think having these
Russian-American kids doing this will help break down the barriers."

It will also help the Russians achieve a revenge of sorts. In the 1957 hit
musical "Silk Stockings," Astaire played an American who wielded his elegant
footwork to convert three comrades and a long-legged Ninotchka, played by Cyd
Charisse, to the joys of capitalism.

Now, in real life in the United States, the Russians seem to have turned the
tables, wielding their elegant footwork to take over the art Mr. Astaire is most
identified with, and doing so in true capitalist style.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dan Horowitz gets a dancing lesson from Larissa Malikhina,
left, at a Fred Astaire dance studio on East 43rd Street in Manhattan. Below,
Sergei Nabatov, who teaches a one-credit course in ballroom dancing at Brooklyn
College, grading his students. Mr. Nabatov is a onetime international champion.
(Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg.
B4); Russian-American children at King's DanceSport Center in Brooklyn, one of
many studios run by immigrants. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)(pg. A1)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 11, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuba Pop Star Defects to U.S. By Walking Across Border

BYLINE:  By SIMON ROMERO

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 733 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 10


One of Cuba's leading pop stars, Carlos Manuel, defected after crossing a bridge
spanning the Mexican-United States border over the weekend and was released
today by immigration authorities in South Texas.

Mr. Manuel, 30, decided to defect last week after performing in Mexico City with
his band, Carlos Manuel and His Clan. He walked over the bridge connecting the
Mexican border city of Matamoros with Brownsville, Tex. Five members of his
entourage -- his mother, his sister, his sister's boyfriend, his cousin, who is
a percussionist in his band, and a sound engineer -- also defected.

Two years ago, another prominent Cuban musician, the salsa singer Manolin,
defected and now lives in Miami. Generally, however, popular Cuban musicians
lead relatively privileged lives and have not sought to defect.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Manuel said he chose to defect after the Cuban
government's recent crackdown on dissidents, which included the arrests of more
than 70 people in March.

"The repression of the recent months was one of the main aspects of my decision,
it kind of crept into regular life," Mr. Manuel said, speaking in Spanish. "The
other aspects were the bureaucracy I had to deal with to leave the island and
the limits that put on my career."

Mr. Manuel, whose full name is Carlos Manuel Pruneda Macias, arrived in
Brownsville on Sunday after flying from Mexico City to Monterrey, in northern
Mexico, and then driving about two and a half hours to Matamoros. Mr. Manuel and
his entourage were released from a holding center today in Los Fresnos, near
Brownsville. The Cuban detainees had been questioned for two days by officials
from the Immigration and Customs Enforcement division of the Department of
Homeland Security.

"This is standard operating procedure in some detainee cases, and Mr. Pruneda
met the requirements for release," said Art Moreno, a customs enforcement
spokesman in Los Fresnos.

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act, a Cuban citizen who reaches the United States is
allowed to stay after being interviewed and inspected. A year and a day after
entering the United States, that person is allowed to become a permanent
resident.

Mr. Manuel and his group entered the United States by walking across the bridge
linking Matamoros and Brownsville. On reaching the American side of the bridge,
Mr. Manuel told border patrol officials of his desire to defect. He and his
group were accompanied by Mexican television journalists who were told of the
defection by Hugo Cancio, Mr. Manuel's promoter in Miami. Mr. Cancio said in a
telephone interview today from Los Fresnos, where he traveled to assist Mr.
Manuel, that he wanted Mr. Manuel's defection to be as public as possible.

"I wanted the whole thing to go live," said Mr. Cancio, who has brought other
Cuban musicians to perform in the United States. "It was a now-or-never moment
that I thought was important."

Mr. Manuel is known for combining provocative lyrics with classical Cuban
percussionist music and touches of Caribbean zouk and reggae. He had performed
outside of Cuba on several occasions, including shows in the United States last
year. In Mexico City last week, he opened for Ricardo Montaner, a Venezuelan
balladeer. One of Mr. Manuel's most successful songs, "Malo Cantidad," involves
word play on the cliche of women falling for consistently unfaithful men. In
reviewing his career, Granma, the Cuban newspaper, once called Mr. Manuel "the
good bad boy."

He was the first of his group to be released from the holding center but on
leaving the building late this afternoon, he promptly walked back in after
realizing that his mother, Martiza Macias Franco, 52, and his sister Yanelys
Pruneda Macias, 25, had to be processed and released. The others in the group
were Jorge Gabriel Gonzalez Macias, 20; Juan Antonio Garcia Delgado, 41; and
Ernesto Alvarez Perez.

The immigration holding building "resembled a resort," Mr. Manuel said minutes
after his release. "It was very comfortable."

After Mr. Manuel performed last November in Miami, four members of his band
defected, a move that he said weighed on him.

Mr. Cancio said he would provide Mr. Manuel and his family with a residence in
Miami. There, Mr. Manuel said, he hoped to rest a little before getting back to
work and promoting his new CD, "Enamora'o."

"From Miami, it will be easier to project myself internationally," Mr. Manuel
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of Carlos Manuel's most popular albums, "Malo Cantidad."
(Palm Pictures)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 11, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Museum Tends the British Melting Pot

BYLINE:  By ALAN RIDING

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: LONDON, June 4


At each end of Brick Lane in the East End of London, little plastic flags offer
visitors a warm welcome to Banglatown. With its textile shops, travel agencies,
restaurants and halal butchers serving a thriving community of Bangladeshi
immigrants, this bustling street could well have been transplanted from the
Indian subcontinent.

But if Bangladeshis have made this Spitalfields neighborhood their own in recent
years, a far older story is told at a building on a street leading off Brick
Lane. Here, in what is billed as the first Museum of Immigration and Diversity
in Britain, the message is that immigration to London is hardly a novelty, that
for three centuries the area around Brick Lane has been a melting pot for
immigrants and refugees.

Given the scale of immigration from Britain's former colonies since the 1960's,
the museum at 19 Princelet Street is modest. Although it will be open daily
during Refugee Week here, June 15 to 22, it is struggling to raise $4.8 million
so that the building can be open year-round. Even in its dilapidated state,
though, it is a powerful symbol of the ever-changing face of Spitalfields.

Huguenots, or French Protestants, were the first foreigners to move into the
neighborhood, in the late 17th century. Among the 50,000 or so Huguenots fleeing
religious persecution by Louis XIV was Peter Abraham Ogier, a silk merchant
whose family was the first to occupy 19 Princelet Street in 1719. The house has
remained nearly unchanged since then: even the original kitchen sink is still in
place.

In the mid-19th century, with Spitalfields then favored by Jewish immigrants
from Poland, Lithuania and Russia, a synagogue was added in the building's
garden by its new tenant, the Loyal United Friends Friendly Society. Today,
though abandoned for worship, the synagogue remains a mute witness to a Jewish
community replaced by a new wave of immigrants.

The 19th century also brought Irish refugees of the potato famine, but the next
big change came with the arrival of Caribbean immigrants after World War II.
They were followed in the 1970's by Bangladeshis and, most recently, by a
growing number of Somalis. A rare touch of traditional Britain survives at the
Christ Church Spitalfields Church of England Primary School on Brick Lane, but
almost all its students are the children of immigrants.

Nearby, another building represents the evolution of a neighborhood more
strikingly. Built in the 18th century by Huguenots as a church called L'Eglise
Neuve, it has successively housed the Society for Promoting Christianity Among
Jews, a Methodist Chapel, the Great Synagogue Machzikei Hadass and, since 1976,
the Jamme Masjid Mosque.

It is through this prism that the Museum of Immigration strives to recount the
story of newcomers to Britain, a mission similar to that of the Lower East Side
Tenement Museum, which interprets the immigrant experience in Manhattan during
the 19th and early 20th centuries. For the moment, though, the Spitalfields
museum's priority is more mundane: to raise money to strengthen its buckling
walls and floors, some now supported by metal pillars. Even so, there are no
plans to restore or modernize the building because 19 Princelet Street is itself
the museum's principal exhibit. "We want to spend money where it cannot be
seen," explained Susie Symes, a former British government economist who runs the
museum's board of trustees.

The Ogier family's kitchen and living quarters give an idea of 18th-century
domestic life, although the former synagogue is the most interesting
architectural artifact: it retains its 19th-century chandeliers and an elegant
balcony with paneling that carries the names of members of the local Jewish
community and the money they contributed to the building's upkeep.

An aura of mystery was added to the building by "Rodinsky's Room," a book by
Rachel Lichtenstein and Iain Sinclair published in 2000 (Granta). It recounts
the strange life of David Rodinsky, a Jewish hermit who for decades lived in an
attic room at 19 Princelet Street and who vanished suddenly in 1969. When his
room was opened 11 years later it was found to contain cabalistic drawings as
well as notebooks in Sumerian, Arabic, Japanese, Hebrew, Yiddish, Greek and
Russian.

Rodinsky's room is closed now, but once the upper floors of the building have
been made safe his refuge will become part of the museum's effort to keep alive
three centuries of memory. In the meantime, a semipermanent show called
"Suitcases and Sanctuary," organized two years ago, sets out to recall the
poverty or repression that prompted immigrants to move to Spitalfields.

The charm of this exhibition is that it was put together by children from six
local elementary schools who, for the most part, come from immigrant families.
Thus Somali children wrote poems about the Irish potato famine and took part in
a video in which they re-enacted Irish families traveling to Britain, while
Muslim children from Bangladesh enacted a Yiddish folk tale. The story of
Bengali immigration was in turn told by children from a local Roman Catholic
school.

"We have proved with the exhibition that people want to visit thehouse," Ms.
Symes said. "The idea is that you can take historic buildings and give them new
meaning today through what they evoke. And we see that with visitors, who may be
strangers but eagerly exchange ideas and experiences."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Visitors to the Museum of Immigration and Diversity in the
Spitalfields section of London can write on luggage tags what they brought with
them as immigrants or what they would take if suddenly forced to flee their
homes. (Joel Pike/19 Princelet Street)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing Africa: Somalia: U.S. Deports Ex-Judge

BYLINE:  By Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 96 words


Abdi Ali Nur Mohamed, a former Somali military judge, was ordered deported from
the United States by an immigration judge in San Diego.

American agents discovered that Mr. Mohamed, an asylum seeker who arrived in the
United States in 1990 and lived there legally, according to officials of the
Department of Homeland Security, had been accused of atrocities in Somalia years
ago. The officials said he had participated in the execution of civilians near
the city of Hargeisa during the dictatorship of Muhammad Siad Barre, who was
overthrown in 1991.   Rachel L. Swarns (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: THE IMMIGRANTS;
Muslims Face Deportation, But Say U.S. Is Their Home

BYLINE:  By DIANE CARDWELL

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 583 words


They are husbands and fathers, working immigrants who have been in New York for
years. Some are married to women with green cards, and some have children who
are American citizens. But because they are from predominantly Muslim countries,
they say, they face deportation even though they have only small glitches in
their citizenship applications.

"We are like everybody else in here: we started a life," said Sameh al-Qoudoh
during a news conference yesterday at a Brooklyn Arab-American service center.
"We don't know what is going to happen if we can't live here."

Mr. Qoudoh, who is from Jordan, said he has been working 16 hours a day, 7 days
a week, driving a cab to save enough money for an immigration lawyer. He is one
of more than 13,000 Arab and Muslim men across the country who could be deported
under a federal registration program that is part of the government's
counterterrorism strategy. He and several other men, accompanied by their
families, spoke against the program in the news conference at the Arab-American
Family Support Center, a nonprofit social service agency in Brooklyn.

Under the program, male noncitizens older than 16 from certain predominantly
Muslim countries are required to appear before immigration authorities and offer
proof of their status. About 82,000 men were registered in immigration offices
across the country.

A few who registered have been linked to terrorism, but the 13,000 or so who
have been issued notices to appear before an immigration judge are considered to
be living in the United States illegally, because of inconsistencies in their
documents or because of improperly filed applications, their advocates say.

"Families who came to the United States to realize the American dream, who chose
to abide by the law and to cooperate with the immigration authorities, have been
singled out on the basis of their ethnicity and religion," said Emira Habiby
Browne, executive director of the Brooklyn center.

Johanna Habib, the staff lawyer at the center, said that if the men were found
to have been in the United States illegally for more than a year and deported,
they could be barred from returning for at least 10 years. "So if they leave
their U.S.-citizen kids here, they can't come back to see their kids for 10
years," she said.

Greg Palmore, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
which oversees detentions and deportation, said that if the men left
voluntarily, though, they could ask to return in five years.

Many of the men who have been told to appear for document checks had small
discrepancies that could be cleared up before a hearing, Mr. Palmore said, but
he declined to comment on the likelihood of deportation for those who could not.
"The burden is on the individual to prove that they are who they say they are
and that they have legitimately come into the country," he said.

For the families, the situation is far from cut and dried. Abdel Hakim Ben Bader
thought that he had applied for his green card, but learned when he went to
register that the application had not been properly processed. Mr. Ben Bader,
who is originally from Algeria, has been in the United States for 11 years, he
said.

He and his wife now have a young son, Adam, and Mr. Ben Bader, who drives a cab,
had hoped to continue his studies in computer technology.

"For 11 years, I've been thinking I'm American," he said. "I feel like I was
born here, you know. And if I return back, my life would be destroyed,
completely."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sami al-Masajedi, holding his 5-month-old son, Elias, appeared
at a news conference in Brooklyn yesterday to protest a government registration
program under which 13,000 Muslim men could be deported. (Andrea Mohin/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gritty Chicago Memories Come to Life on Stage

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1132 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 13


The two Hispanic teenagers in flip-flops and jeans clutched hands as they sat
facing each other one recent afternoon, remembering the first moment they met.

It was the late 1920's. They were Jewish immigrants from Odessa, a free-loving
Communist aunt and her curious, admiring niece. Friends and relatives were
crammed around the huge wood table for a family celebration.

"This is for you, for each other, Syl and Ruth," David Feiner, the director,
urged the two girls, who in fact met last summer through the Albany Park Theater
Project, an improvisational troupe of young people in a gritty neighborhood on
the Northwest Side of the city. "You can talk as loudly or softly as you like.
I'd like you to tell each other your memory."

The exercise was one part drama coaching, one part history lesson, one part
political advocacy -- a typical rehearsal recipe for the unusual theater
company, now staging its 11th show of true stories stitched into a montage of
dance and dialogue, spoken word and song. The current show, extended to this
weekend, is an impressionistic chronicle of generations of Albany Park
immigrants, from 19th-century German settlers to the day laborers who hustle on
a street corner near the theater today, reaching a climax in the confessional of
a member of the ensemble who is an undocumented immigrant.

Mr. Feiner and his wife, Laura Wiley, graduates of the Yale Drama School,
founded the company, known as A.P.T.P., six years ago. They were trying to meld
their artistic and activist ambitions with the motto, "Real teenagers, real
community, real theater, real stories." What has emerged, alongside a series of
critically acclaimed original shows with a $10 ticket, is a family-like support
group of about 35 teenagers that coaxes unknown talent out of many shy or
troubled youths.

"Sometimes home isn't the happiest place," said Marisa Ramirez, 18, the high
school senior who belts out the throaty "Syl's Blues" in the scene about the
Jewish immigrants, which is based on the family of a theater patron. "You can't
get everything you need at home. Here, there's unlimited brothers and sisters,
and there's always food if you're hungry."

There are no auditions. Any neighborhood resident 13 to 21 who shows up is
directed to the snack cabinet and incorporated in the company. There are no
scripts, except the ones that the group develops through its collaborative
storytelling, tape recording, transcribing and sketching out scenes on stage.

There are, however, sessions of intensive college counseling in which Mr. Feiner
and Ms. Weiler spend dozens of hours with each graduating senior, researching
colleges, preparing essays and visiting campuses. Of the 35 alumni who have gone
to college, including the University of Virginia and Carleton College in
Northfield, Minn., 90 percent were the first in their families to do so.

"I didn't even believe in myself," Nancy Casas, 21, a student at Beloit who
spent four years in the company, said. "They were the first to believe in me.
They see that you can go to college, even though you're in this at-risk socially
disadvantaged neighborhood. I really do not know where I'd be without A.P.T.P.
Like the rest of my sisters, maybe, pregnant. Not that there's anything wrong
with that, but it's not what I want."

Nestled between the tracks of the el and the Chicago River 10 miles from
downtown, Albany Park is a neighborhood of working poor, where 55 percent of the
50,000 residents are foreign born, reflected in the jumble of Arabic, Cambodian,
Korean, Romanian, Spanish and Tagalog signs that dance down Lawrence Avenue.
Half the population is Hispanic, according to the 2000 census, 19 percent Asian,
4 percent black and 23 percent "other."

Ms. Wiley and Mr. Feiner raise the $200,000 that fills the snack cabinet, buys
costumes and pays their salaries from foundations and corporations, as well as
city and state governments. The theater, and the homey office where the
teenagers flop on sofas and riff on keyboards between scenes, is on the second
level of the Eugene Field Cultural Center of the park district.

In addition to the shows and counseling, the couple also run a summer book club
at their house on Sunday evenings, a weeklong camp for recruits, numerous
outings to movies and museums and an annual retreat to places like Maine or
Colorado. The couple attend graduations and birthday parties. They have bailed
their actors out of jail for petty crimes, sought immigration lawyers, secured
housing for a homeless cast member, taken another for an H.I.V. test and,
recently, received the first call placed by a company member hospitalized for
depression.

But the couple shun any suggestion that theirs is a do-gooder social service
agency. They and the teenagers take the theater part seriously.

The current production began out of ethnographic exploration last summer in
which the teenagers roamed neighborhood streets searching for stories. The
opening scene, "Prairie, 1853," stems from a photograph of Jacob Kunz's farm
that they found at the historical society. The spine of the show, "Amor de
Lejos," or "Love From Afar," grows out of interviews that two young women
conducted with the jornaleros, or day laborers, around the corner.

Five young men in paint-splattered jeans and work boots fling themselves across
the stage in synchronized movements that simulate tiling floors and punctuate
the main character's monologue about his four harrowing attempts to cross the
border. Choreographed mimes of shoveling, sweeping, painting, scraping and
lifting bring the tyranny of work to life. Then a young woman in a buttercup
sundress appears for a dream sequence, her skirt fluttering as she twirls around
her displaced husband.

"There's something very different about performing an actual person and
performing a fictional character," said Marta Popadiak, who portrays the
jornalero's wife. "It feels really good to be able to give someone a voice."

The finale, "Nine Digits," is adapted from the experiences of an unnamed company
member who arrived at O'Hare International Airport from Colombia at age 6 and
still lacks a Social Security card. It follows him through the humiliation of
not having a driver's license, the question of whether to marry for love or
citizenship, the frustration of turning down an internship with a dance company
in Washington and, ultimately, the admission to others at in the troupe that he
is here illegally.

"The war in Iraq began the same week we started rehearsals for this show," says
the character, played by Michael Nguyen, who describes two soldiers killed in
Iraq granted citizenship posthumously. One "was from Mexico and, like me, did
not choose to come to the U.S.," Mr. Nguyen adds. "But was brought here as a
child by his parents so he could have a better life."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Nguyen and Elizabeth Cobacho prepared a scene for "Aqui
Estoy," or "I Am Here." At the left, a director at the Albany Park Theater
Project, David Feiner, rehearsed with Marisa Ramirez, left, and Toni Castillo
for the production. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 14, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Favoring Cubans

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 80 words


To the Editor:

Re "Cuba Pop Star Defects to U.S. by Walking Across Border" (news article, June
11):

Carlos Manuel's candor is refreshing. He makes it clear that he decided to
immigrate to the United States in part because of the expected economic and
professional benefits.

His story highlights the injustice of American immigration policy, since people
trying to emigrate from any other country would not receive the same treatment.

CHARLES W. GOSSETT
Pomona, Calif., June 11, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fighting Terrorism Fairly

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 256 words


After some hesitation, the federal government seems to be moving to end abusive
practices in its handling of immigrants suspected of terrorism. The reforms,
prompted by a blistering report from the Justice Department's inspector general,
are a welcome improvement.

But they will need the support of Attorney General John Ashcroft, who has shown
little remorse about his department's mishandling of immigrants.

The inspector general's report found "significant problems" in the post-Sept. 11
roundup of suspected terrorists. Many detainees were classified as terrorism
suspects on scant evidence. There was a "pattern of physical and verbal abuse."
And detainees were denied access to lawyers. Responding to the report, the
Justice Department said it made "no apologies" for how it went about protecting
the American public. While asking Congress for new terrorism-fighting powers,
Mr. Ashcroft used similar language.

By adopting the new policies, the government is at least implicitly admitting
that mistakes were made. The new guidelines, based on 12 recommendations in the
inspector general's report, include clearer standards for deciding when a
detained immigrant should be considered a terrorism suspect, and improvements in
conditions of confinement.

If these reforms are going to work, they cannot be mere words in a rule book.
Mr. Ashcroft should embrace them publicly, and explain to law enforcement why
they are necessary. It does not detract from the war on terrorism for the
government to admit when it has gone too far.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 15, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

F.Y.I.

BYLINE:  By ED BOLAND Jr.; E-mail: fyi@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 583 words


Liberty in Reverse

Q. My Japanese grandfather spent time in an internment camp out West during
World War II. Were there any such camps in New York?

A. There was an internment camp in New York, in the part of the city that for
generations had meant freedom and opportunity for immigrants from throughout the
world. The camp was on Ellis Island.

In the fall of 1941, even before the attack on Pearl Harbor,the Justice
Department had begun planning to round up foreigners. Letters show that the
Attorney General's office expected to arrest 600 people from New York and 200
from New Jersey per month and hold them on Ellis Island. On Dec. 8, 1941, the
day after the attack, the roundup began. Internees were housed in the baggage
and dormitory building behind the Great Hall.

Unlike the camps in the West, where Japanese and Japanese-Americans were held,
Ellis Island interned mainly Germans and Italians, including the Metropolitan
Opera star Ezio Pinza. Japanese were also held there, along with Austrians and,
at one point, a Nicaraguan.

Some of the internees were natural-born United States citizens, others were
naturalized citizens and still others were resident foreigners. The population
was fluid, with some awaiting hearings, some being transferred to another camp,
and some awaiting deportation or repatriation -- all this in a place with the
Statue of Liberty visible beyond the barred windows.

The Japanese surrendered on Sept. 2, 1945, bringing World War II to an end, and
the camp closed that year. It is estimated that some 8,000 foreigners and
citizens passed through it during its four years.

Taking TAKI's Tag

Q. I've heard that the movie "TURK 182" was based on a real New York graffiti
writer. Is that true?

A. Not quite, but it takes a true New York movie buff to remember "Turk 182," a
1985 release that TV Guide dismissed as "self-important, forgettable fluff." If
there is something strangely memorable about the title for New Yorkers, however,
it could be that it was inspired by the first famous New York City graffiti
writer, TAKI 183.

The late 60's and early 70's witnessed an infamous decline in subway
maintenance, which, not surprisingly, coincided with the rise of graffiti on the
trains. A ubiquitous signature, or "tag," was "TAKI 183."

An article about TAKI 183, which appeared in The New York Times on July 21,
1971, revealed that he was a 17-year-old who lived on 183rd Street in Washington
Heights. Taki is a traditional Greek diminutive for Demetrius, his first name.

The article made TAKI 183 a minor celebrity, and not surprisingly Hollywood
co-opted his name, sort of, though not his story. TAKI 183 became TURK 182,
played by Timothy Hutton, who fought a corrupt City Hall with an honest heart
and a can of spray paint; his battle led to the movie mayor's demise.

Whether or not Mayor Edward I. Koch ever saw the film, he did vow to clean up
the subways. But his success didn't help him politically; he lost in 1989 to
David N. Dinkins.

Murphy's Brother

Q. There's a playground at Avenue C and the F.D.R. Drive awkwardly called
Murphy's Brother's Playground. Who are Murphy and his brother?

A. Originally called the 17th Street Park, it was named for John J. Murphy, a
politician and businessman, in 1921. In 1985 the park was rechristened to
acknowledge John's older brother, Charles (Silent Charlie) Murphy, a
saloonkeeper, a political broker and -- thanks to his low-key, back-room
peacemaking ability -- an eventual leader of Tammany Hall.   ED BOLAND Jr.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2003 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Charges Are Brought In Smuggling Deaths

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 128 words


Federal prosecutors say the organizer behind the nation's deadliest smuggling
case was a 25-year-old Honduran immigrant who told a judge she spoke no English
and until recently worked at Levi's. "She's the general," a prosecutor said of
the woman, Karla Chavez, who along with 13 others was named in a federal
indictment stemming from the deaths of 19 illegal immigrants.

The victims, among them a 5-year-old boy, were crammed with dozens of other
people inside a tractor-trailer last month and driven over the United States
border into Texas. Ms. Chavez, the authorities said, fled back to her native
country and was arrested over the weekend as she tried to cross into Guatemala.
Prosecutors said they would consider seeking the death penalty.

Article, Page A18.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 18, 2003



CORRECTION: A front-page capsule summary yesterday for an article about charges
brought in a smuggling operation that led to the deaths of 19 people
misidentified the starting point of their journey by truck. It was near
Harlingen, Tex., not across the border in Mexico.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Woman Accused of Leading Smuggling in Which 19 Died

BYLINE:  By KATE ZERNIKE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 893 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 16


Federal prosecutors said today that the ringleader of the nation's deadliest
smuggling case was a 25-year-old Honduran immigrant, who told a judge here that
she spoke no English and had until recently worked at Levi's.

According to an indictment released today, the woman, Karla Chavez, directed the
smuggling that led to the deaths last month of 19 people, including a 5-year-old
boy, who had been crammed with dozens of others into a tractor-trailer just
inside the United States border with Mexico.

Officials said Ms. Chavez had fled to a tiny village in her native country after
the truck driver abandoned his trailer with the dead bodies in Victoria, Tex.,
on May 14. She was captured as she tried to cross into Guatemala this weekend.
Appearing in court for an initial hearing, Ms. Chavez bit her lip and hung her
head as prosecutors said they would consider seeking the death penalty.

She and 13 others were charged with 56 counts of conspiracy, smuggling,
endangering the lives of the immigrants and causing the deaths of the 17 people
whose bodies have been identified so far. Four of the people accused of being
Ms. Chavez's co-conspirators face two additional charges that they tried to
extort money in exchange for separately smuggling a 3-year-old boy whose mother
had been aboard the truck.

Michael Shelby, the United States attorney for the Southern District of Texas,
said he wanted to send a message to smugglers, who he said had operated under
the belief that they could escape serious punishment. "These people have to
realize that there are consequences, that greed carries with it a price," Mr.
Shelby said at a news conference.

In an interview, Mr. Shelby said that cellphone records showed Ms. Chavez to be
at the center of a "spider web" of hundreds of calls, apparently dictating
orders to several cells of smugglers who brought immigrants over the border,
sometimes one by one, and stowed them in several drop houses in South Texas.
Once enough people had been gathered, he said, she arranged for them to be taken
to a field near Harlingen, Tex., and loaded onto a truck for Houston.

"She's the general," Mr. Shelby said.

At least 74 immigrants from Mexico and Central America had been crammed into the
truck after paying fees of $1,500 to $1,900, he said. Seventeen were found dead
in the abandoned trailer in Victoria; two others died soon after.

In all, prosecutors say, about 100 people are implicated in the case, with
several cells operating under larger ones -- in some cases, one immigrant's trip
from Central America to South Texas involved several intermediaries, one to help
cross the Rio Grande, another to take the immigrant to a safe house, another to
deliver food.

Mr. Shelby said it had been hard to identify all the people involved because the
immigrants who survived the truck trip often knew their smugglers only by first
name or nickname. Based on interviews, wire transfers and phone records,
prosecutors had enough evidence to charge only the 14 people. Five remain
fugitives.

According to the indictment, three cells operated around Ms. Chavez, who
employed recruiters to find the truck driver and a restaurant worker to deliver
food to the drop houses.

Officials said the Victoria tragedy began in early May, when the three cells
separately began recruiting smugglers and immigrants.

The immigrants came from Mexico, El Salvador, Honduras and the Dominican
Republic. In some cases, officials said, the heads of the cells told the
immigrants whom to contact and how much they would be charged. Some of the
payments came from relatives in Mexico and Central America, but at least two
came from inside the United States.

Two of the illegal immigrants, according to the indictment, crossed the border
from Mexico by claiming United States citizenship at the official port of entry
at Hidalgo, Tex., having been coached to do so by a smuggler who remains
unidentified. In most cases, however, smugglers concealed the immigrants in cars
or crossed them over the Rio Grande in inner tubes.

One cell, prosecutors say, was a family, Victor Rodriguez, 55, his wife, Emma,
and their 37-year-old son, Victor Jesus. Mr. Rodriguez, known to the immigrants
as Don Victor, is accused of operating a drop house in Brownsville, Tex., and
his name was given as a contact by at least one person who helped smuggle the
mother of the 3-year-old boy. Mr. Rodriguez and his wife are charged with hiring
two others, identified as Juan Carlos Don Juan and Erica Cardenas, to deliver
the boy to anyone who offered to pay for his safe return the day after the
smuggling. The two were caught by border patrol agents who had offered $1,300.

One cell is identified as just one person, Norma Sanchez, 42, who from Houston
instructed immigrants on how much they would have to pay and how to travel, and
then collected fees.

In Harlingen, Ms. Chavez is said to have waited until the various smugglers had
assembled a critical mass in drop houses, officials said. Two of her recruiters,
Alfredo Garcia and Abel Flores, hired the truck driver, Tyrone Williams, they
said. Mr. Williams normally delivered milk to San Antonio.

On May 13, according to the indictment, Mr. Williams contacted Mr. Flores and
Mr. Garcia and said that he was on his way to Harlingen, and asked them to rent
him a motel room. That night, the immigrants were loaded on the truck.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prosecutors say Karla Chavez was at the center of a "spider web"
of hundreds of calls, apparently dictating orders to several smugglers.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 18, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

6 Arrested in Illegal Transfer Of Tens of Millions to Pakistan

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, June 17


Three New Jersey men and three New Yorkers, all natives of Pakistan, were
charged today with illegally transmitting tens of millions of dollars in cash
from the United States to Pakistan by using several unlicensed money-transfer
businesses and failing to file the required currency-transaction reports.

Over the last 18 months, more than $70 million passed through the operation en
route to Pakistan, said a spokesman for Christopher J. Christie, the United
States attorney for New Jersey. While the exact origin and destination of the
money is still under investigation, prosecutors said there was no indication
that the money was connected with terrorism, narcotics or other illegal
operations.

Indeed, by most indications the money appeared to come from immigrant
neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens, where several unlicensed storefront money
transfer businesses operate, prosecutors said. They said that those businesses,
in turn, took their funds to a licensed money transfer operation in Iselin,
N.J., where a confederate deposited the money into that company's bank accounts
and directed that the money be wired to individuals in Pakistan.

The six men were arrested early today on a criminal complaint that grew out of
an investigation by the Internal Revenue Service and immigration and customs
agents. They all appeared before Magistrate Mark Falk in United Stated District
Court, where it was determined that three of them were in the country illegally,
prosecutors said. They face 5 or 10 years in prison if convicted on the currency
charges.

Named in the complaint were Syed Azhar, 44, of Morganville, N.J., who is an
officer of Access Inc. of U.S.A., a licensed money transfer business based in
Iselin. He is charged with transmitting the illegally amassed funds to Pakistan
through the Access bank accounts. An assistant United States attorney, Marion
Percell, maintained in court that Mr. Azhar was a flight risk and asked that he
be held without bail. Judge Falk set a hearing for Friday on the request.

Also named in the complaint was Ali Cheema, 22, of Iselin, an employee of Access
Inc., who investigators said helped Mr. Azhar prepare phone receipts and
documentation of the transactions. A Pakistani citizen, Mr. Cheema is a legal
permanent resident of the United States. His bail was set at $100,000.

Umer Dar, 26, of Bayonne, an employee of Kashmir Money Inc., an unlicensed money
transfer business in Manhattan, is also named. A naturalized American citizen,
he was held on $100,000 bail.

The three men who were found to be in the country illegally were held without
bail and could face action by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. They
are Farooq Malik, 39, of Astoria, Queens, who works at Link to Link, a Long
Island City business that is not licensed to transfer money overseas; and Umar
Mushtaq, 29, and Khurram Farid, 30, both of Brooklyn, who worked for Fast Global
Services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanic Population Is Rising Swiftly, Census Bureau Says

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 674 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


The Census Bureau released new figures today indicating that growth in the
Hispanic population continues at a dizzying rate, having increased by nearly 10
percent in the first two years of the new century.

The number of Hispanics, which totaled 38.8 million as of July 2002, indicates a
continued growth in immigration in recent years, even under less favorable
social and economic conditions than those of the 1990's. According to the Census
Bureau, the Hispanic population increased by 9.8 percent from the April 2000
census figures. Immigration, the new report concludes from estimates of both
legal and illegal migrants, accounts for roughly 53 percent of the increase.

"It suggests a demographic momentum so powerful," said Roberto Suro, director of
the Pew Hispanic Institute, "that the immigration flow is somewhat impervious to
the economic downturn or fears over national security."

The report, released today at the League of United Latin American Citizens
convention in Lake Buena Vista, Fla., confirms earlier census predictions that
Hispanics had overtaken blacks as the country's largest minority group.

As stark as the numbers themselves, is the conundrum they highlight: the growing
difficulty of classifying racial and ethnic categories in an increasingly fluid
and multi-ethnic society.

The 2000 census allowed respondents for the first time to choose more than one
race in identifying themselves, a change that produced a wide array of possible
racial classifications. And since Hispanics can be of any race, a census
question allowed people to declare whether they were of Spanish, Hispanic or
Latino origin.

Previous census estimates, released in January, predicted that Hispanics had
edged past blacks in terms of population, but only if the black population
totals excluded blacks who checked more than one race or who checked black and
Hispanic origin.

The newest figures, according to census officials, put that discrepancy to rest.
The population generally identified as black or African-American totaled 36.7
million as of July 2002. After adding the population that identified as black,
in combination with one or more other races, the number rose to only 38.3
million, still less than the general Hispanic total of 38.8 million.

"It can seem a bit like comparing apples and oranges," said Robert Bernstein, a
spokesman for the census bureau. "but now under every conceivable comparison,
the Hispanic population is the largest."

That still left other tricky comparisons for the Census Bureau to clarify. While
Hispanics remain the largest growing group, census officials took pains to point
out that Asians, whose numbers rose 9 percent to roughly 13 million in 2002,
experienced the highest rate of growth among racial group, because Asians are
considered a racial group and Hispanics an ethnic group. The raw numbers and
percentages convey little about overlaps in race and ethnicity, many
demographers say. Filipinos, for example, can identify as both Asian and of
Spanish origin.

So far, the Census Bureau has not devised a way for people to identify
themselves as Arab-Americans or of Middle Eastern ethnicity.

"What we end up with is a slightly convoluted set of concepts and little
uniformity in the way we all think about the concepts or classify the data,"
said Professor Larry Hajime Shinagawa, director for the Center for the Study of
Culture, Race and Ethnicity at Ithaca College in New York.

While the wording of the census questionnaires pushed Hispanics to further
classify themselves by race, a recent study by the Pew Hispanic Center showed
that when respondents were asked to declare themselves by race, 46 percent
identified themselves as simply Hispanic or Latino. Another 20 percent responded
"other."

"More than half of the Hispanic population doesn't see itself fitting into any
of the standard American classifications" said Mr. Suro. "It's not that they are
colorblind or beyond racism. They just don't see the world divided into such
stark boxes, and that has to be a real engine for change."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Says Government Has Improperly Detained Foreign Children

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 507 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


Foreign children fleeing violence and persecution in their home countries are
often improperly detained for months in bleak detention centers in the United
States without access to lawyers or psychological services, a study released
today said.

The report, which surveyed 33 detention centers around the country, found that
undocumented children who arrive in this country without caretakers are often
strip-searched, shackled and housed with juveniles who have been convicted of
crimes.

The study was conducted by the human rights group Amnesty International, which
advocates for less restrictive placements or foster homes for children who are
awaiting determination of their legal status.

"We found frequently instances of abuse such as solitary confinement for such
offenses as poor hygiene or poor sportsmanship or misuse of grammar," said
William F. Schulz, executive director of Amnesty International U.S.A.

"We found use of shackles and belly chains and leg irons on children as young as
7 when they appear in court," Mr. Schulz said. "What is most disturbing about
this is it reflects a mentality that would punish those who have been seriously
harmed already in their home countries rather than offering them protection and
a quick adjudication of their claims."

Government officials said they welcomed the report and were reviewing the
conditions at its centers. For decades, the federal immigration service was
responsible for unaccompanied immigrant children. In March, the children were
transferred to the care of the Department of Health and Human Services, a move
hailed by advocates for immigrants.

Officials at the Department of Health and Human Services inherited the
often-criticized detention system from the immigration service and said they
were working hard to improve it. About 500 unaccompanied minors are currently
being held while the government seeks to adjudicate their immigration claims.

"It's an important piece of information for us as we move forward in
implementing this program," Wade Horn, the department's assistant secretary for
children and families, said of the Amnesty report.

"We've been out visiting the various facilities we have contracts with to ensure
that those facilities are in fact appropriate," Mr. Horn said in an interview.
"What we've been doing is trying as best we can to put in place a system where
the focus is on the individual needs of the child and making sure the placement
is consistent with the needs and circumstances of that child."

The study found that nearly 50 percent of the detention facilities surveyed had
improperly housed immigrant children in the same cells with juvenile offenders.
Nearly 60 percent of the centers used solitary confinement to discipline
children, even for minor infractions.

More than a dozen of the centers failed to provide lists of lawyers so that the
children could be represented in court.

Mr. Schulz said he was encouraged by his talks with officials at the human
services department and said they seemed committed to improving the system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 24, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT: SUPREME COURT ROUNDUP;
Justices to Hear Case on Whether the Disabled Can Sue States on Access to
Courtrooms

BYLINE:  By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1029 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


A state claim of immunity from suit under the central provision of the Americans
With Disabilities Act will provide the next Supreme Court term with a focus for
the court's continuing debate over the balance of state and federal power.

The justices agreed today to hear Tennessee's appeal from a ruling that left the
state open to a lawsuit by two residents who use wheelchairs and who were unable
to gain access to state courtrooms. One plaintiff, George Lane, crawled up two
flights of stairs for his arraignment on misdemeanor traffic charges, and was
later arrested for "failure to appear" and jailed when he refused to repeat the
ordeal when it came time for a pretrial hearing.

The other plaintiff, Beverly Jones, is a certified court reporter who needs
access to courtrooms to do her job. She was unable to enter four county
courthouses where lawyers had hired her to record the proceedings. Her legal
complaint listed 23 Tennessee counties with inaccessible courthouses despite the
requirement of Title II of the Americans With Disabilities Act that public
"services, programs or activities" be made accessible to people with
disabilities.

Two years ago, in University of Alabama v. Garrett, the court examined a
separate provision of the Americans With Disabilities Act that protects state
employees from discrimination on account of disability. The court held that
states are immune from suit by their employees under this provision. The access
provision raises different constitutional issues, however, and there has been a
widening split among the federal appeals courts over how to analyze state
immunity claims under that provision. Of the 12 appellate circuits, five have
ruled for the states, three for disabled plaintiffs at least under some
circumstances, and the remaining four have pending cases.

In the case accepted today, Tennessee v. Lane, No. 02-1667, the United States
Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit ruled that while the Garrett decision
meant that states could not be sued for violating the equal protection rights of
people with disabilities, states remained liable for suit for violating rights
protected by the Constitution's guarantee of due process. Access to court was
such a right, the appeals court held.

The justices' decision to accept the case was almost a foregone conclusion.
Three times before, including this term, the court had accepted a case that
raised the same question. But in two cases, the parties dismissed the case
before the court could rule, and in the other, the justices failed to resolve
the question.

From the point of view of disability rights advocates, none of the other cases
provided as sympathetic and compelling a set of facts as this one. This time,
lawyers for the two plaintiffs urged the court to hear the state's appeal, as
did lawyers for the federal government, which had intervened on the plaintiffs'
side in the lower courts.

Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist announced from the bench today that the court
would decide all its remaining cases on Thursday. These include a major gay
rights case challenging the sodomy law in Texas as well as a First Amendment
case that began as a suit against Nike under California's consumer fraud law.

These were among other actions at the court today:

Deportations

Without comment, the justices turned down Bush administration appeals in two
immigration cases. In one, Ashcroft v. Singh, No. 02-1123, a native of India who
had entered the country illegally, but who was presumably eligible to remain
because his wife was a United States citizen, was two hours late for a hearing
at which he was to challenge a deportation order and where he was highly likely
to be successful.

The delay was due to confusion about the timing of a rescheduled hearing. As a
result of his failure to appear, the immigrant, Ranjit Singh, was ordered
deported. He filed a motion to re-open the proceedings, as is permitted under
federal law, but the request was denied by immigration officials. The United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, found that the
Board of Immigration Appeals had abused its discretion in failing to consider
Mr. Singh's request, and ordered it to do so.

In appealing that ruling to the Supreme Court, the administration said the Ninth
Circuit's ruling was so obviously incorrect that the justices should overturn it
summarily, without hearing argument.

In the second case, the administration appealed a Sixth Circuit decision to
release from detention two Cubans who entered the country as part of the Mariel
boatlift in 1980. The two, Mario Rosales-Garcia and Reynero Arteaga Carballo,
subsequently compiled criminal records and had their immigration parole revoked.
They were ordered deported, but Cuba would not take them back.

The Supreme Court ruled two years ago, in Zadvydas v. Davis, that aliens who
were deportable but who could not be deported must ordinarily be released after
six months, unless they posed a particular threat, rather than face indefinite
or perhaps lifetime detention.

The Sixth Circuit held in this case, Snyder v. Rosales-Garcia, No. 02-1464, that
the same principle applied not only to lawful immigrants but to those
"excludable aliens" who had never been formally admitted into the country,
including the Mariel Cubans. In its appeal, the administration asked the
justices to rule that the Sixth Circuit had unduly extended the principle of the
Zadvydas case to this additional group.

Telephone Service

Accepting appeals from the Federal Communications Commission, the State of
Missouri, and Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, the court agreed to decide
whether states may prohibit local governments from providing telephone service.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, in St. Louis, ruled
that such state laws are pre-empted by federal communications law.

The appeals court struck down a Missouri law, which is similar to laws in eight
other states. There is a split among the lower courts on the question, which has
placed the F.C.C. "in an impossible position," the agency told the justices in
Federal Communications Commission v. Missouri Municipal League, No. 02-1386.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Yesterday's Rulings" Grutter v. BollingerUpheld the admissions
policy of the University of Michigan Law School, finding that minority
applicants may be given an edge. Voted with the majority: BREYER, GINSBURG,
O'CONNOR, SOUTER, STEVENS Gratz v. BollingerStruck down the University of
Michigan's undergraduate affirmative action program, which used a point system
that rated applicants on various factors, including race. Voted with the
majority: BREYER, KENNEDY, O'CONNOR, REHNQUIST, SCALIA, THOMAS United States v.
American Library AssociationRuled that Congress can force public libraries that
accept federal money to equip computers with anti-pornography filters. Voted
with the majority: BREYER, KENNEDY, O'CONNOR, REHNQUIST, SCALIA, THOMAS American
Insurance Assn. v. GaramendiRuled a California law requiring insurance companies
to disclose information about their Holocaust-era policies was unconstitutional
meddling by a state in foreign affairs. Voted with the majority: BREYER,
KENNEDY, O'CONNOR, REHNQUIST, SOUTER Green Tree Financial Corp. v. BazzleThrew
out decisions against a Conseco Inc. finance unit that had ordered the company
to pay $27 million to two classes of individuals. Voted with the majority:
BREYER, GINSBURG, SCALIA, SOUTER, STEVENS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Toiling to Keep The Song Alive

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg.
1

LENGTH: 1959 words


Two weeks ago the singer Paloma put on an all-black outfit -- bell-bottoms, a
long-sleeved mesh of fishnet and a top emblazoned with an image of the Virgin of
Guadalupe -- and headed to her Friday night gig at Guadalajara de Noche, a tiny
Mexican restaurant under the No. 7 elevated line along Roosevelt Avenue in
Queens.

That Sunday, Consuelo Santiago, the Mexican immigrant known as Paloma, left her
Queens apartment to do a very different kind of work: cleaning other people's
houses. Singing and cleaning are just two of the ways this 23-year-old cobbles
together a living for herself and her 7-year-old daughter, Jennifer. She also
designs outfits for other Mexican singers, and recently has looked into starting
a home-based catering business.

Making a living as a musician in the restaurants where Latino immigrants eat in
Queens, the New York borough with the most foreign-born residents, is not easy.
Moonlighting is nothing new to struggling musicians, but whereas struggling
American-born and educated musicians might have day jobs as office workers or
waiters, these singers typically work in low-end immigrant jobs: cleaning
houses, washing dishes, delivering packages.

With the economy sputtering, neither their day jobs nor their night gigs are
stable. Restaurant owners along Roosevelt Avenue -- the main immigrant strip
that shifts from Ecuadorean to Irish to Filipino to Colombian to Mexican in a
matter of miles -- say business is drastically slower than it was just a few
years ago. Many restaurants have canceled their live entertainment, forcing
local musicians to seek jobs farther away from home or simply to give up music
altogether.

Of those who still work, many lead double lives, spending weekdays in the lower
echelons of the New York labor market and evenings and weekends as entertainers.
The families whose houses she cleans, said Ms. Santiago, know nothing of her
singing career. "I don't like to tell them," she said. "I have wanted to when I
get mad, but no."

Guadalajara de Noche is a long and narrow place, an unwieldy layout for live
entertainment. The small stage, about 6 feet by 2 feet, is crammed between the
bar in front and the tables in the back. The Jackson Heights restaurant attracts
the kind of crowd that thins at the end of the month as rent comes due. It is
usually a mixture of couples and families, and at the bar, a familiar Roosevelt
Avenue scene: tired Mexican men, back from some laborious and underpaid job,
drinking Coronas and looking melancholy.

Sad songs

The karaoke-style sound system Paloma uses for her Tex-Mex music is set for what
might be called stereophonic echo chamber, incongruously making her seem as if
she is welcoming a crowd of thousands to an arena rather than a dozen or so to a
cozy restaurant. Her favorite songs are sad ones, like "La Tequilera," about a
woman who drowns her sorrows with tequila, and she does a lot of Selena covers.

As in many such places, customers with some singing ability occasionally ask to
take the stage. Paloma is also spelled and, to some extent, upstaged by her
daughter, who wears a matching outfit, and though she spends part of her
mother's performance playing with a set of "Finding Nemo" stickers, Jennifer
takes the stage with aplomb. If anything, she is more energetic than Paloma,
perhaps because her diminutive size gives her some room to prance around the
tiny stage.

The next evening, seven blocks away on Roosevelt Avenue, the band members of
Embajada Musical plays accordion-heavy, polka-inspired Mexican norteno music in
the Azteca Restaurant, as they do every Saturday and Sunday. The show starts at
10, but on this evening the only customer in the room at that time was a thin,
white-haired man sitting at the bar in a Maradona soccer shirt and Yankees sweat
pants. The 15 tables covered in pink tablecloths and adorned with fake flowers
were empty.

Unfazed, Santos Lopez and his band, mostly restaurant workers by day, directed
their high-volume show to the Maradona fan, the bartender and three blank-faced
uniformed waitresses. Nearly an hour later, there were still only nine people in
the restaurant.

Then, literally at the 11th hour, in a whoosh of perfume, a group of a dozen
celebrating their friend's birthday swept in, and the place suddenly came alive.
The waitresses kicked into gear, taking their drink orders of Corona and Negra
Modelo. When the band diverged from its Mexican repertory to strike up a recent
Colombian hit, "El Hijo de Tuta," in which a worker disparages the undeserved
good fortune of his arrogant boss, everyone got up to dance.

Worrying About the Rent

The band members can relate. When they are not making music, they mostly work in
low-paying restaurant jobs, washing dishes or busing tables. Mr. Lopez lost what
had been a steady job when the Dew Drop Inn restaurant in Greenwich Village
closed, and since then he has scraped together enough to support his girlfriend
and child taking whatever temporary jobs he can, and repairing the occasional
accordion.

It is a tricky task to run a band under such circumstances. "It's difficult when
you work somewhere else and you have to learn new songs," he said in an
interview during a break. "We can't rehearse. Our schedules don't let us."

Members have frequently dropped out. "People are always worrying about the
rent," he said. "Sometimes they lose their job and it becomes necessary for them
to leave the group to look for work. They come and go, come and go. That's why
it's difficult to progress in music."

Natives, a huge Colombian restaurant less than a mile away on Northern
Boulevard, has music almost all day on weekends. Last month, on Father's Day
afternoon, Fabio Marquez (on the guitar) and Manolo Rodriguez (on the banjo),
who bill themselves as Duo Internacional, were serenading tables. They
alternated sets with Sofia Alvarez, a manicurist at nearby Northern Nail on
weekdays who roamed the floor with a wireless mike, singing ranchera music over
the restaurantwide sound system.

Like Ms. Alvarez, they do not make a solid living through music, although both
used to, Mr. Rodriguez in Venezuela and Mr. Marquez in Colombia. Mr. Rodriguez,
who is 62, now counts on his family for support, but even so, he recently
started a one-man company, Silver Cup Window Cleaning. When Mr. Marquez came to
New York 17 years ago, a friend got him a job with a jeweler in Manhattan, and
he supplemented his income playing in restaurants all weekend, often until 4
a.m. He lost his day job at the end of last year. When his wife died
unexpectedly in April, he could not afford to miss playing guitar the next day.

Mr. Marquez and Mr. Rodriguez stroll the restaurant, waiting for tables to call
them over and request songs. "Peruvians come here, Argentines, Colombians, even
Americans, and you have to have a repertory for everyone," Mr. Marquez said
during a break. "People ask for songs from their country. It brings back
memories of when they were dating." At the table of Jose Alberto Ospina and
Luzdary Gordaliza, who were with their two children, Mr. Ospina requested "Mi
Negra" for his wife. "It's a song I have always dedicated to her," he said.

It is not unusual for a client to ask the duo to leave the restaurant and
serenade a girlfriend or a family member at their home, and the managers of
Natives permit the pair to leave and return after such missions.

Stevie Wonder, Sort Of

Another group of Queens-based minstrels is the Mariachi Tequila Azul. Several
local restaurants hire mariachi bands, the crowd-pleasing uniformed troubadours,
including Guadalajara de Noche. Tequila Azul, however, no longer has a regular
gig in Queens. Although its musicians work late nights at El Gran Rancho
Jubilee, a Dominican restaurant in the East Elmhurst section near La Guardia
Airport, most of their work is outside the city. On Monday and Tuesday nights,
when they play at El Bandido restaurant in Spring Valley, N.Y., the audience
could not be more different from the typical crowd in Queens. That restaurant
caters to a suburban crowd, as evidenced by the pinatas hanging from the ceiling
and its faux Mission decor.

That calls for an adjustment in music. Instead of crooning the romantic mariachi
classics Latin Americans would expect, they play recognizable tunes like "La
Bamba," "Oye Como Va" and, of course, the Champs' oldie "Tequila." They are
popular, even though they bungle the lyrics of "Margaritaville" or know just one
line of a Stevie Wonder hit. (Their version: "I just called to say I love you/I
just called to say I love you.")

After their weekend gigs in Stony Point, N.Y., they have recently been making
late-night stops in Queens at El Gran Rancho Jubilee. There, they return to the
Latin classics, fielding requests for songs from artists like Pepe Aguilar,
Vicente Fernandez and Marco Antonio Solis.

Those late nights can be especially difficult for Marcos Trujillo, 25, who plays
two string instruments, the guitarron and the vihuela. When the band plays until
late, he heads straight to his seven-day-a-week job delivering newspapers
starting at 4 a.m. He is not often well rested. "Sometimes you sleep on the
road," he said in an interview in the Queens apartment he shares with the
group's leader, Wilson Moreno, and several others. "Sometimes you sleep two
hours in the day and two hours in the night. Sometimes, when there's not that
much work, you sleep five hours."

Mr. Moreno delivers packages for Dynamex. His irregular schedule also gets to
him, but at least he can still make music the way he did back home. "There is no
other alternative here," he said.

"It must be difficult if one is married," he added. "But I don't have that
problem."

Actually, Mr. Moreno does have a wife and three children -- in Ecuador. He sends
them at least $800 a month, leaving himself just enough to pay the rent, car
insurance and food.

Like so many immigrants, Mr. Moreno is torn between providing for his children
by sending dollars from New York or moving back home to watch them grow up. His
oldest child is 16. Recently he has been leaning toward heading home, so El
Bandido may soon need a new mariachi group, and Dynamex may have a vacancy for a
deliveryman.

"In this country there is a lot of money," he said. "But happiness is not in
money." For the present, though, he is grateful for the work. "It's an
independent job where you are your own boss," he said, "and they pay us for what
we like to do."

The other singers echoed Mr. Moreno's words: while they wish they could do
better financially, they were happy to have a place to perform and glad to make
some extra money doing it, especially during difficult economic times.

Paloma took the long view. "For me, it's something that helps me get ahead for
my daughter," she said. "She wants to be in ballet or maybe in karate. And this
is something that I've always liked doing."

Spanish Serenades Are a Side Order

Many immigrant musicians from Queens who play restaurants at night have much
less glamorous work during the day. A sampling of those musicians performing
this weekend in Queens:

PALOMA. At Guadalajara de Noche, 85-09 Roosevelt Avenue, between 85th and 86th
Streets, Jackson Heights, (718) 397-9666, every Friday night, 9 to 11.

EMBAJADA MUSICAL. At Azteca Restaurant, 92-01 Roosevelt Avenue, at 92nd Street,
Jackson Heights, (718) 672-7373, tomorrow night and Sunday, beginning at 10 p.m.


DUO INTERNACIONAL. At Natives Restaurant, 82-22 Northern Boulevard, at 83rd
Street, Jackson Heights, (718) 335-0780, tonight, tomorrow night and Sunday, 7
p.m. to 1 a.m.

MARIACHI TEQUILA AZUL. At El Gran Rancho Jubilee, 23-04 94th Street, at 23rd
Avenue, East Elmhurst, (718) 335-1700, Sunday, beginning at 10 p.m. (They may
also perform here after midnight tonight and tomorrow.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Wilson Moreno, left, and Jose Matamoros of Mariachi Tequila
Azul, who are to play in Queens this weekend. (Lucian M. Read for The New York
Times)(pg. E1); The singer Paloma with her 7-year-old daughter, Jennifer, at
Guadalajara de Noche in Queens. (Lucian M. Read for The New York Times)(pg. E4)
Map of Queens highlighting points of interest. (pg. E4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2003 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Next Door to Bias Crime Scene, House Is Firebombed

BYLINE:   By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y., July 7


Three years ago, two white strangers in a car pulled up to the house at 41-43
Granny Road here and whisked away two Mexican immigrants on the pretense of
hiring them as day laborers. Instead, the workers were taken to an abandoned
warehouse and beaten nearly to death -- a crime that dramatized the growing
tensions here over illegal immigrants.

Now Granny Road is again at the center of that storm. Around 1 a.m. Saturday,
another mysterious car drove up to the house immediately next door, No. 45, and
someone in the car firebombed the house by hurling a flaming object through a
window, the Suffolk County police said.

Inside, a Mexican immigrant and his family were asleep. Neighbors who were still
celebrating the Fourth of July in a yard around the corner heard the breaking
glass and saw the flames. They ran to the house and banged on the door and
yelled to rouse the occupants. Four adults and two young children inside all
escaped without injury. The house was gutted.

Was it another bias attack?
Initially, the police classified the case as arson but said they had no evidence
of a bias motive. Then Newsday reported today that the resident, Sergio Perez,
felt that he and his family had been attacked because of who they are. So this
afternoon the police announced that they had turned the case over to their
anti-bias bureau to be investigated as a possible hate crime.

But the bureau's commanding officer, Detective Sgt. Robert R. Reecks, was
careful to say there was still no evidence of what the motive was, bias or
otherwise.

"The victims feel targeted because they are Latino," said Sergeant Reecks, who
investigated the attack three years ago. "If someone feels they are targeted
because of who they are, we take that very seriously."

Advocates for immigrants voiced their suspicions.

"Of all the houses in Farmingville to be firebombed, it is an extraordinary
coincidence," said Nadia Marin-Molinas, executive director of the Workplace
Project in Hempstead.

Edward Hernandez, an advocate for immigrants and for low-income housing, said:
"We're hoping it's not a bias crime, but it doesn't seem, in our hearts, to be a
truly random incident. It's more than just a coincidence." But he called for
calm and "letting the police do their investigation."

The family members lost all their belongings in the fire, and they were staying
at an undisclosed location today. In addition to Mr. Perez, they are his wife,
Maria Garcia; their children, Laura, 5, and Sergio Jr., 1; and Mr. Perez's
brother Hugo. An unidentified visitor was also in the house when it was
attacked.

Through intermediaries, they declined to be interviewed.

The debate over illegal immigrants has simmered since the two attackers in the
earlier incident were convicted and imprisoned.

A local group opposed to illegal immigrants, Sachem Quality of Life, publicly
disavows violence. The group's leaders have had an internal split in recent
months, and its current president could not be reached for comment.

One original Sachem leader, Ray Wysolmierski, said: "People in the liberal
community want badly for this to be a bias crime" to gain sympathy for
immigrants. But he speculated that the fire was "something internal within the
illegal community."

"It might be that somebody didn't pay their coyote," he added, using a slang
term for someone who smuggles immigrants into the country, "or a drug deal gone
bad, or a number of internal things." A year and a half ago, he claimed, one
Farmingville immigrant fired six bullets into the door of another immigrant's
home in a personal dispute.

The Rev. Allan Ramirez, who is chairman of the Human Rights Commission in
adjacent Nassau County, took $1,500, clothes and toys to the Perez family this
morning. He said he wondered if the firebomber had intended to attack the house
next door.

Mr. Ramirez said the fire and the attack in 2000 both came a few weeks after
Sachem brought provocative speakers from out of town to public meetings here.

"They taunt the day laborers every Saturday," Mr. Ramirez said, "videotaping
them, yelling, 'Why don't you go back where you came from?' and waving
Confederate flags, and then we have an attack on a patriotic Fourth of July
weekend. They're fanning the fires of hatred."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 17, 2003



CORRECTION: An article on July 8 about the firebombing of an immigrant family's
house in Farmingville, N.Y., misspelled the surname of the executive director of
the Workplace Project, an advocacy group, who expressed suspicion that the
bombing was a bias crime. She is Nadia Marin-Molina, not Marin-Molinas.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A house at 45 Granny Road in Farmingville was firebombed. The
police are trying to determine a motive. (Ed Betz for The New York Times) Map of
Long Island highlighting Farmingville: The house that was firebombed is next to
another crime scene.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 10, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Here Comes the Bride. Again, and Again . . .

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1031 words


In a era when divorce and remarriage are commonplace, it might not be surprising
for a city clerk to see some of the same names pop up on applications for
marriage licenses from time to time.

But it did strike the city clerk's office as highly unusual when it learned this
year that one Manhattan woman had applied for 27 marriage licenses from 1984 to
2002 -- and that at least a dozen others had seemingly married in numbers that
were highly suspicious.

These "career brides," as one city official called them, were not marrying for
love, according to the Manhattan district attorney's office, which announced
yesterday that four women had been arrested and two more were being sought on
felony charges punishable by up to four years in prison. The authorities said
they believed that the women had offered to marry illegal immigrants for a fee,
usually about $1,000. Officials said the women who had applied for the licenses
sometimes actually went through with marriage ceremonies, but sometimes they did
not.

A marriage would entitle the men to green cards and other benefits, including
Social Security and unemployment insurance, prosecutors said. The men involved
in the scheme came from various countries, including Pakistan, India, Peru,
Ecuador, Nigeria and the Dominican Republic, according to court papers.

Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney, began his investigation
after the city clerk's office raised suspicions. He said he planned to give the
information to the F.B.I.-N.Y.P.D. Joint Terrorist Task Force, the Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services and various United States attorneys.

Officials said the possibilities for abuse are obvious and seemingly endless,
given that municipal and county databases on marriage in New York State are not
linked, nor are computerized records connected state to state.

"This opens the door to a lot of other fraud and expense for the U.S. taxpayer,"
Mr. Morgenthau said at a news conference.

Victor L. Robles, the city clerk who reported the multiple marriages to Mr.
Morgenthau in January, still seemed stunned by his findings. "I wanted to know
how that's possible in the city of New York," he said yesterday in a telephone
interview.

In order to marry in New York City, prospective brides and grooms must complete
an affidavit that requires information about previous marriages. The application
is then filed with the city clerk's office. Only once did any of the women
arrested yesterday acknowledge a previous marriage on the application.

Mr. Robles, a former city councilman who took over the city clerk's office in
2001, said he was surprised when he heard about a woman who had filed for
numerous marriage licenses within a short period of time.

He then learned that his office was doing only one-year computer searches on
applicants.

"Somebody who got married this year could go to the Bronx next year and get
married again," and not be detected, he said.

Mr. Robles also learned that records were not immediately shared among boroughs
or counties.

"I said, 'From now on, every time we catch somebody, we'll forward it to the
district attorney's office in the respective counties,' " he said.

Since taking office, Mr. Robles, who has 54 deputies in the five boroughs, has
instituted a records search that goes back 10 years, and he is lobbying for all
the state's marital records to be connected.

"I hope that this whole scandal will force the city and the state to link
systems so that I can punch in a name and know if someone already applied for a
license," he said.

This question remains: At what point does one who often says "I do" become
suspicious? After three weddings? Five? Ten?

"We have to look very closely," Mr. Robles said, adding that he had hired a
lawyer whose role it is to cross-check information on people with multiple
marriages. The office also demands to see divorce decrees before issuing new
marriage licenses, he said.

The women who were charged yesterday -- Dezerrie Cortes, 40, who had applied for
27 licenses; Maria Davis, 26; Monique Figueroa, 26; and Chera Larkins, 32 --
worked independently of each other, officials said, and had applied for licenses
to marry a total of 43 men. The charges included perjury and offering false
documents to officials. There was no pattern to the schemes or identifiable
ringleader, prosecutors said.

None of the four women could be reached for comment yesterday.

Ms. Cortes is being held at Rikers Island in $25,000 bail. Ms. Davis was
released on her own recognizance, and Ms. Figueroa was expected in Manhattan
Criminal Court for arraignment last night. Officials said Ms. Larkins had been
arrested, but they did not know her whereabouts.

Ms. Davis and Ms. Cortes live in the same Lexington Avenue apartment building, a
high-rise near East 121st Street.

"She goes to work and takes her son to school every day -- mother kinds of
things," a neighbor, Karen Williams, 29, said of Ms. Cortes.

In explaining how the prospective grooms found their brides, Dan Castleman, the
chief of investigations in the Manhattan district attorney's office, said:
"Oftentimes it was word of mouth in the neighborhood. Some of the women made it
known they were available for a price."

Others used go-betweens to arrange unions, he said, adding that most who
actually married after receiving the licenses never bothered to file for divorce
before applying for new licenses.

In another case, an employee in the city clerk's office is being sought on
accusations that he accepted a bribe to change a bride's name in the computer
system. In that case, prosecutors said, the woman scheduled to appear at the
clerk's office for a marriage ceremony did not show up, and the would-be groom
wanted her name removed from the record so another woman could be substituted
and the wedding could go on that day.

Mr. Morgenthau said an investigation into about a dozen other repeat brides and
their grooms was continuing. If the government finds that a green card
application is based on a fraudulent marriage, the applicant could be
immediately deported.

"We wanted to put a stop to this now," Mr. Morgenthau said. Later, he added,
"But the investigation still has a ways to go."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Victor L. Robles, the city clerk, is lobbying for boroughs and
counties to link their files on marriage licenses. (Chang W. Lee/The New York
Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 10, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Reach Israel

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The first of two immigrant groups from the United States and
Canada arrived yesterday at Ben-Gurion International Airport in Tel Aviv. The
940 immigrants received aid from the organization Nefesh B'Nefesh. (Associated
Press)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Caption

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 14, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old Tensions Over Immigrants Surface After Firebombing

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

DATELINE: FARMINGVILLE, N.Y.


The firebomb that gutted the simple wood-frame house on Granny Road on July 5
did more than leave a family homeless and their neighbors shaken.

It also pierced what had been a relatively quiet, if uneasy, coexistence between
Spanish-speaking immigrant day laborers and some of their neighbors.

And more than two and a half years after this Long Island community in central
Suffolk County was thrust into the national spotlight by a brutal attack on two
immigrant workers by young men posing as employers, it was a reminder that many
of the problems that festered then, still fester now.

"I think there was a sense of hope that this was as bad as it could get, and
that was the wake-up call that would serve as the impetus to address really
important issues," Nadia L. Marin-Molina, executive director of the Workplace
Project, an immigrant worker organization in Hempstead, said of the attack on
the two men. "While it did wake people up in terms of the issues, it didn't lead
to any concrete solutions."

Around 1 a.m. on July 5, the police said, a neighbor saw someone in a black
vehicle throw a flaming object through the window at 45 Granny Road. Neighbors
still celebrating the Fourth of July heard shattering glass, saw the flames, and
helped rescue the four adults and two young children inside. Now, the Suffolk
County Police Department, the F.B.I. and the United States attorney for the
Eastern District of New York are investigating whether it was a bias crime.

But even without answers as to who did it and why, the fire has sounded an eerie
echo of what happened on Sept. 17, 2000, when Israel Perez Arvizu and Magdaleno
Estrada Escamilla, who lived in the house next door, were lured to an abandoned
building in nearby Shirley with the promise of work, then attacked with digging
tools. The two assailants, Ryan D. Wagner and Christopher Slavin, were each
sentenced to 25 years in prison.

Since then, some pieces of the puzzle have shifted. Workers and their advocates
say it is no longer common these days, as it was three years ago, to have empty
bottles hurled at Hispanic men on the street. The Workplace Project has been
trying to help the laborers organize themselves under the umbrella of the United
Day Laborers.

Gaudencio Garcia and Salvador Escamilla, members of that group, said their
organization has put out about a dozen newsletters. In interviews translated by
Ms. Marin-Molina, the men said the group's members have met with police
officials and written newsletter articles explaining housing and driving laws.

"People are beginning to realize that we're not alone, and that we can bind
together in a group," Mr. Garcia said. Still, he said, the firebombing had a
chilling effect.

"It's a renewed threat," he said. "We had felt tranquillity."

There have also been shifts in the Sachem Quality of Life, a local group that
opposes illegal immigration and which, while it was not connected to the attack
nearly three years ago, was criticized by some public officials and immigrants'
advocates for contributing to the charged climate in which it took place. A few
years ago, workers say, more than a dozen members of the group would gather by
the local 7-Eleven on Saturdays, holding signs with slogans like "Deport Illegal
Aliens." Now, the number has dwindled to no more than five, and in general,
their presence in the hamlet has diminished.

Recently, however, the Sachem group has split, alarming some critics. Its
longtime spokesman, Ray Wysolmierski, who still answers to that title, said
members of the breakaway group "want to be a little bit more radical in their
approach."

Members of the new group did not return telephone calls seeking comment. About a
month and a half ago, they held a conference featuring Chris Simcox, founder of
a volunteer armed watch group that intercepts illegal immigrants crossing into
Arizona and turns them over to the authorities.

And the basic ingredients that proved combustible a few years ago, for the most
part, have remained.

The Suffolk County Legislature considered, but ultimately rejected, several
proposals to limit the presence of day laborers. One would have had the county
file a federal suit to force the Immigration and Naturalization Service, now the
Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, to move against the immigrants.
Another would have revoked the licenses of contractors hiring undocumented
workers.

Other Suffolk legislators proposed spending county money for a hiring hall where
workers and employers could meet in an organized fashion, but Robert J. Gaffney,
the Suffolk County executive, vetoed the measure.

Now, as three years ago, there is a shortage of cheap housing, so the men still
crowd into single-family houses. There is no hiring hall, although Mr. Gaffney
said in a telephone interview that he thought more and more men were being
picked up at home by their employers. Immigration authorities have not raided
the community. And while the economy may have been in a slump, Long Island still
has a fertile market for people willing to mow lawns, paint houses, lay bricks
and the like.

Detective Sgt. Robert Reecks, commander of the bias crimes unit of the Suffolk
police, said virtually no bias crimes against immigrant workers have been
reported in Farmingdale since the 2000 attacks in Shirley. But he said he
thought day laborers were still reluctant to report crimes, saying, "They're
still very much in fear of the Police Department."

For some residents, the issue is still raw. "This is a political problem here,
and nobody seems to want to come in," said Frank Hardina, a Farmingville
retiree.

Mr. Hardina said that the issue of day laborers has not been in the news, but
has been on his mind. His car and house have been pelted with eggs, he said, and
his television cable cut. He has no proof, but he suspects the laborers.

His neighbors Joseph and Deborah Mudaro said that until the firebombing, they
had thought things had been settling down. Now, they wonder.

"A lot of people have turned the other cheek and just accepted what's going on,"
Mr. Mudaro said. "You had promises that people were going to do something for a
while, then it all faded away. Now it looks like it's coming to a boiling point
again."

But the Rev. John M. Derasmo, pastor of the Roman Catholic Church of the
Resurrection, opposite the firebombed home, was not so sure. Things are not the
same, he said, as they were when he arrived at the parish five years ago. The
handful of parishioners who barraged him with complaints that the parish was
doing too much to welcome undocumented workers no longer attend Mass there.

Other, milder gripes about the workers' presence in the community, if not the
church, virtually stopped after the terror attacks of Sept. 11. At recent
trilingual Masses, featuring prayers in English, Portuguese and Spanish, he
said, "the church was packed."

"I don't know if it's so much that they changed their views about the laborers,
but they focused their attention on something else," Father Derasmo said. "I
think there are people in the community who are concerned, but I think they're
willing to see how we can live in peace with one another."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A mobile command post was set up by the Suffolk County police
on Friday, on Granny Road in Farmingville, N.Y. The police sought information
from passers-by about a July 5 firebombing at a home on the street. (Ed Betz for
The New York Times)(pg. B2) Map of Suffolk County, Long Island, highlighting
Farmingville: Four adults and two children survived a firebombing on July 5.
(pg. B2)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 15, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. Firebombing

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 133 words


To the Editor:

Re "Old Tensions Over Immigrants Surface After Firebombing" (news article, July
14):

Can any reasonable person suspect that the firebombing of the Hispanic home in
Farmingville, on Long Island, is anything but a hate crime?

It is ludicrous that the police and the F.B.I. are only now suggesting that it
might be a bias crime.

When will Suffolk County wake up to the need for a hiring site for day laborers?
Where hiring sites exist in other communities, the incidence of violence
diminishes.

Robert J. Gaffney, the county executive, missed a real opportunity to reduce
tensions by constructing a site after the attempted murders of two Hispanics in
September 2000. One hopes that local officials will act now, before someone is
killed.

EDWARD J. THOMPSON
Farmingdale, N.Y., July 14, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 20, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

COPING;
A Tree That Spans Years and Continents

BYLINE:  By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS; E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 746 words


ONCE upon a time, an Italian immigrant, returning from vacation, smuggled a
fig-tree cutting through customs at Kennedy International Airport. His nephew
rooted the cutting in Staten Island, then gave it to Rita and Henri Clermont,
friends of his who live in Jackson Heights, Queens.

Mr. Clermont, who is Haitian by birth and has an islander's connection to the
land, stuck the new tree in the dirt in front of his red-brick attached house.
He didn't do anything fancy, like amending the soil, as the gardening books,
with their dubious science, put it.

For a fig tree to survive and bear fruit in the city, folk wisdom says you have
to cover it in winter, or better yet cover it and perch a can on top of the
tarp. But that is just the physical part. To grow a fig tree properly in New
York, you also have to be sentimental, some might say superstitious.

"You hope and you pray," said Mrs. Clermont, her wavy auburn hair loose like her
housedress, from a brocade couch in her living room.

"You throw holy water on it," added her sister, Antoinette Marengo, like a
chorus, from the dining room.

Eight years later, the two-foot sapling has grown into a six-foot tree,
emboldening the Clermonts to plant two more fig trees. Their branches are
getting heavy with round-rumped green fruit, just short of being ripe enough to
eat.

In once Greek and Italian neighborhoods, it is chilling to imagine how many of
the fig trees nurtured in postage-stamp yards arrived here illegally, brought in
despite the risk of confiscation and maybe a fine, as a link to the old country.
Many have outlived those who planted them, becoming the arboreal ghosts of human
refugees and stowaways fleeing village vendettas, privation and war in other
lands.

As everyone knows, figs are not native to New York, so by definition, every fig
tree that grows here has a story behind it.

How much joy and heartache is in some of those trees? Stroking the smooth gray
bark and fingering the leathery leaves, a gardener might easily be transported
to another time, when sustenance could be found in the dry dirt, and a
sufficient meal consisted of wine, olives, tomatoes, bread, cheese and figs.

Because the Clermonts live in a corner house, at 34th Avenue and 75th Street,
their trees are visible from two directions, like a beacons. Other people on the
block raise tomatoes, hydrangeas and day lilies. But the Clermonts are the only
ones with figs. So they have become accustomed to having strangers knock at
their door, asking could they please pick just one?

Despite its Mediterranean antecedents, the fig tree seems to have near universal
appeal.

"We're talking all nationalities now," Mrs. Clermont said. "Indians. Arabs.
Vietnamese."

Her sister, who lives in the same house, interjected: "The Chinese like the
leaves. I think they cook them. Everybody likes figs, except the Americans."

Mrs. Clermont gave her sister a look. "Who's American?" she demanded. "You're
getting ethnic, sister. You mean the Irish don't like figs."

Miss Marengo persisted: "Ninety percent of the people who ask are foreigners. I
mean, they speak a foreign language. I had a man from Albania come by. He
started speaking to me in Italian. He spoke it beautifully. I said, 'Come on in
and get a fig.' He was delighted."

By the time the family gives the figs away, there is nothing left for them.

The sisters' father, Rocco, a tailor, came here in 1925 from Potenza, in
southern Italy. Mrs. Clermont, now 66, has lived in four houses, all in Queens.
Civil service jobs and an open mind have kept her tied to the city.

"I'm not the type to run," she said. "I was born on 34th Avenue and 100th
Street, and I'm going to die on 34th Avenue and 75th Street."

Her husband fled the Duvalier regime 45 years ago, at the age of 20. He met his
wife-to-be in an English class, where she was the teacher. A trim, crew-cut man
given to shorts in this sultry weather, he keeps his counsel. But he is the
gardener. At the house in Corona where they used to live, there was a fig tree
already; he planted a peach, a plum and an apple.

Mrs. Clermont had a chicken in the oven, nearly done. Time to go. She took out
her scissors, snipped some sprigs of lavender and mint from the pots on her
front steps, and gave them to a guest, who was invited to return in September
for a fresh fig.

At this moment at the airport, someone probably is smuggling in a ghost of home.
And we are left to wonder: what are the fruits of the new generation of
immigrants in Queens?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 22, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Deports Irish Suspect In '76 Killing Of Policeman

BYLINE:  By THOMAS J. LUECK

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 545 words


A suburban Philadelphia pipe fitter who was charged in the 1970's killing of a
police officer in his native Northern Ireland has been arrested and deported,
federal officials said yesterday.

The pipe fitter, John Edward Anthony McNicholl of Upper Darby, Pa., was arrested
by agents for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement as he left his
home for work at 5:30 a.m. on Thursday, the authorities said. He was flown to
Dublin on Friday and released.

The deportation culminated a legal battle that spanned more than a decade and
generated passionate support for Mr. McNicholl from Irish-Americans.

"He may have participated in a war 27 years ago, but that war ended and we
should stop this insanity," said Jack Worrall, a Rutgers University economist
and friend of Mr. McNicholl. "This is a good and decent man, a quiet man, who is
widely respected in his community."

Mr. McNicholl's lawyer, James Orlow, said last night that his client was a
victim of overzealous federal policies toward anything related to terrorism.

"Mr McNicholl is like a lamb they led to slaughter to show they are doing
something about terrorism," Mr. Orlow said.

Immigration officials said Mr. McNicholl entered the country illegally and lied
on a visa application. They also said sufficient evidence had been presented to
tie him to past terrorist activity to warrant the deportation.

"He went through the whole process, and was denied his last appeal," said
Garrison Courtney, a spokesman for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The federal Board of Immigration Appeals issued a deportation order on July 10,
immigration officials said in a statement yesterday.

Mr. McNicholl was arrestedin 1976 after two officers of the Royal Ulster
Constabulary were ambushed and shot, one of them fatally, in the small town of
Dungiven. The police later raided a farmhouse where they found Mr. McNicholl and
two other men, as well as guns and explosives.

Mr. McNicholl was described at the time by the British authorities as a member
of a terrorist paramilitary organization, the Irish National Liberation Army. He
was arrested with the two other men, and confined to the Maze prison near
Belfast.

Three months later, while awaiting trial, he tunneled out with eight other
prisoners.

Mr. McNicholl, 51, and his wife, Francis, a naturalized United States citizen
who was born in Northern Ireland, moved to the United States in 1984, and have
lived in Upper Darby since the late 1980's. They have three children, ages 12,
16 and 17.

Federal immigration officials began trying to deport Mr. McNicholl in 1995.
Their case was based in part on a 1990 charge that Mr. McNicholl lied on a visa
application by saying he had never been arrested.

The government's case was also based on testimony by British officials that was
intended to tie Mr. McNicholl to the Irish National Liberation Army and the
killing of the police officer in 1976. Mr. Courtney said grounds for deportation
had been established under federal rules because Mr. McNicholl was "suspected of
being involved in terrorism."

Mr. McNicholl denied any involvement in the 1976 shooting, and Mr. Orlow
produced court documents from Ireland that showed another man had been convicted
in the case, which he said absolved his client.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 25, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Haitians Are Held in U.S. Despite Grant of Asylum

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1186 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, July 23


Four months ago, immigration lawyers rejoiced after a federal judge granted
political asylum to two men who scrambled to shore with more than 200 Haitians
when their boat ran aground near this city last year. One man had left Haiti
after the killings of his brother and sister. Another had fled after a
pro-government mob attacked his house.

But the sense of celebration has given way to frustration and anguish.

Today, the two Haitian men are still behind bars, even though the judge
determined that their fears of persecution were legitimate. Federal prosecutors
have appealed that ruling and government officials have ordered the continued
detention of the two men until the appeal is decided, a process that could take
several months.

Candace Jean, the lawyer for the two men, has petitioned for their release on
humanitarian grounds pending the outcome of the government's appeal. She says
one of the men, Rochenel Charles, 55, suffers from severe chest and stomach pain
and is deteriorating rapidly. The other, Gabriel Joseph, 53, suffers from
depression and post-traumatic stress and his mental state is worsening, she
says.

Both men have been detained since Oct. 29, 2002, when they fled their boat along
with their compatriots in a frantic dash that was broadcast on national
television. A third Haitian who was detained for nearly six months after being
granted asylum was released last month after the detention center determined
that he was suffering from post-traumatic stress syndrome.

"America's supposed to welcome someone who is a refugee," Mr. Joseph said in a
telephone interview from the Krome detention center this week. "It's four months
ago that they gave me asylum and they still keep me in prison. I get so
discouraged. I feel no hope."

The detention of Mr. Charles and Mr. Joseph has heightened the debate over the
treatment of Haitian immigrants. Advocates say the decision to continue to
detain the men after they were granted asylum highlights what they describe as
the government's discriminatory stance toward Haitian asylum seekers.

Under Bush administration policy, Haitian asylum seekers are typically detained
until they are deported or, less frequently, granted asylum. Other immigrants
are usually allowed to remain with relatives in the community while their cases
or related appeals are decided.

Officials say they are trying to discourage Haitians from migrating illegally to
the United States. They say a mass migration of Haitians would require the Coast
Guard to focus on interdicting people at sea, diverting precious resources
needed to protect the United States in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of
Sept. 11, 2001.

In April, Attorney General John Ashcroft ruled that Haitians and other illegal
immigrants without links to terrorist groups could be detained indefinitely to
address such national security concerns. He said the State Department had
learned that Haiti had become a staging point for Pakistanis and Palestinians
hoping to enter the United States illegally, a charge that has been disputed by
advocates for immigrants.

Officials say they have treated the Haitians fairly and have made exceptions to
the detention rule when such exceptions were justified. Thirty-three of the
people who arrived on the boat last year have been released on humanitarian or
other grounds pending the outcome of their cases, officials say. Many were
pregnant women and small children who spent months in detention before they were
released.

The overwhelming majority of people who have been granted asylum have also been
released.

Ana Santiago, a spokeswoman for the Department of Homeland Security here,
declined to discuss the cases of Mr. Charles and Mr. Joseph. Departmental rules
bar officials from discussing asylum cases. But the judge who handled the two
cases described the concerns raised by immigration officials in her two separate
rulings.

In Mr. Charles's case, government lawyers said he had not been threatened
directly and questioned whether he had actually gone into hiding after his
siblings were killed. The judge, Sandra S. Coleman, said she found Mr. Charles's
description of his time on the run detailed and persuasive. She said it was also
reasonable for Mr. Charles to fear for his life after his brother and sister
were killed.

In Mr. Joseph's case, the government lawyers questioned inconsistencies in his
chronology. The judge noted that Mr. Joseph, a carpenter, could not read or
write. She said his testimony remained consistent during questioning and
attributed his confusion over dates to the confusion of an uneducated man.

All told, 93 have been deported and 32 remain in detention, including Mr.
Charles and Mr. Joseph. Six people have been charged with alien smuggling.

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department, which oversees the
nation's immigration courts, said the detention of the remaining Haitians is
necessary to ensure that they will appear in court.

"These are people who attempted to evade law enforcement," said Mr. Martinez,
noting that many of the Haitians fled the police when their boat ran aground
last year. "Why should we think these individuals are going to return for their
adjudication? The risk of flight is very real."

Advocates for the Haitians say they are no more likely to flee than other
immigrants applying for asylum.

A study released last month by Physicians for Human Rights and the Bellevue-New
York University program for survivors of torture found a steady deterioration in
the psychological well-being of asylum seekers over the months and years they
were held in detention centers, many of which offer little access to counseling
and other mental health services.

"This is not how the United States should be treating people who have been found
to merit refugee status in a federal court," Ms. Jean said of her clients. "This
kind of detention causes much unnecessary misery."

In January, Florida's Catholic bishops deplored the continued detention of the
Haitians as "indefensible and inequitable." In March, Senator Bob Graham,
Democrat of Florida, wrote to the Department of Homeland Security, calling for
the release of all Haitian minors. Officials say two teenagers remain in
detention.

In May, supporters of the Haitian detainees rallied at a federal immigration
building here. A month later, a group of local Republican and Democratic
lawmakers traveled to Washington to lobby government officials on behalf of the
Haitians.

Ms. Jean said she still hoped that her clients would be released. Mr. Joseph,
who was granted asylum on March 20, has relatives in New York, she says. Mr.
Charles, who was granted asylum on Feb. 13, has a brother who is an American
citizen living here in Miami.

She keeps in regular contact with the two men and tries to help them understand
what is happening in their cases. But that is not easy.

Mr. Charles, who was a farmer in Haiti, is still struggling to comprehend his
situation.

"I got saved," he said in a telephone interview from Krome detention center
where Ms. Jean served as his interpreter. "I got to America. I got asylum. Why
am I still in prison?"

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Stephen Baptiste, who lives in Miami, stood with protesters as
they demonstrated against administration policy on Haitians. They say most
Haitians who reach the United States are sent home or detained. (Getty Images)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 30, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

About New York;
Mexican, But the Dream Is American

BYLINE:  By DAN BARRY

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 728 words


WITH the weight of a day's labor in their step, they trudged along the baked
Bronx pavement, through the evening heat. They turned down a concrete alley at
one of those apartment buildings that loom over the Grand Concourse like
man-eating Gargantuas and followed its path to the dank coolness of the utility
room, where the meeting was to be held.

Water pipes and utility meters decorated their makeshift conference room, and
the furniture was more discarded than distressed. But the setting did not matter
as much as the agenda, which was:

We have been residents of New York City for many years, yet we are outsiders. We
are skilled laborers, yet we have little to show for our toil. We are proud men,
yet our employers take advantage.

We are Mexican. What now?

It is the defining question of the immigrant, one that echoes through the memory
of this city. We are Irish; we are Italian; we are Polish; we are Puerto Rican;
we are Korean; we are Jamaican. We are New Yorkers. What now?

As it did for others before them, the intimation of an answer is revealing
itself to some Mexican immigrants in the borough's Bedford Park section. The
answer may be in the chrysalis stage, but the men seem to sense the unfolding of
wings. Something about banding together, pooling resources, working by -- and
for -- themselves. Something like that.

People who come without governmental blessing to this city from Puebla, or
Guerrero, or Veracruz, often expect to return to Mexico after a few years. But
Brother Joel Magallan, the director of an outreach program for Mexicans in New
York, Asociacion Tepeyac, said that the rub of reality gradually erases those
dreams, until all that remains is the naked question: "What am I going to do in
Mexico?"

For a couple of years, the companion question -- what now? -- has vexed a few
dozen Mexican men who belong to Our Lady of Mercy parish. Recently they began to
meet outside the church to share desires that were like those of most other
people: better lives for their children.

They realized that their days of sweating in garment district factories were
behind them. Most of them were working in construction, with expertise in
certain jobs. The resulting thought was, "We could build or fix up a house,"
one, Pedro Galaviz, explained. "I work inside. He works outside."

A few weeks ago, three dozen men agreed to start a construction business.
Although they have not named the corporation or filed incorporation papers with
the state, they have appointed corporate officers.

German Flores, the president, carries a piece of paper with the names and
telephone numbers of his many partners. That they elected officers is a telling
step, he said. "It means that we have gained enough trust among ourselves."

TRUST is the glue. As treasurer, Maximo Mendoza has been charged with collecting
$25 each week from the members; he records payments in a spiral-bound book. He
is also researching which bank is worthy of receiving the group's deposits, a
decision that hinges in part on the conditions of loans that the men expect to
take out once they have credit.

Mr. Mendoza had worked all day for a New Jersey construction company whose owner
he has never met. Now he was talking enthusiastically about the future while
sitting behind a discarded desk in a Bronx utility room, as a fan propped on a
bucket stirred the tight air and two boys slurped juice boxes through straws.
The boys, the sons of the group's vice president, Rodolfo Baez, listened in
silence as adults around them gave voice to dreams.

"We have already had three meetings," said Mr. Mendoza, 30, who has lived in
this city 13 years.

"I need something better for my family," said Jesus Valbuena, 25, who has nine
years in this city.

"Now we're starting to work for ourselves: Mexicans!" said Mr. Galaviz, 34, who
has eight years in this city.

It is possible that reality will rub away their enthusiasm. Robert C. Smith, a
professor of sociology at Barnard College and an expert on the Mexican
experience in New York, said that their venture requires "confianza": deep
trust.

"There's a lot of things that could go wrong," he said. "What if the guy who's
supposed to do the plumbing doesn't come through? You really have to trust each
other."

So far, confianza remains intact in this corporation with no name. While two
boys watched, each man reached into his pocket and pulled out $25.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Slain Immigrant's Family Here Asking Why

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 326 words


Sali Mata Sanfo and Daouda Zongo faced a tight circle of reporters yesterday,
their second day ever outside Burkina Faso, in West Africa, and peered
quizzically at a translator who relayed questions. The answers were simple
enough, but they caused Ms. Sanfo to cry.

They had come, the wife and brother of Ousmane Zongo, who was fatally shot by a
police officer in May, to ask for justice in person, they said. They wanted to
see the place where Mr. Zongo, 35, died because they were having trouble
grasping that his death was real.

Many details of Mr. Zongo's death during a police raid at Chelsea Mini-Storage
remain a mystery. Mr. Zongo, who repaired African art and furniture sold at the
building, was not the target of the raid. He was unarmed,and the police officer
who shot him was in plain clothes.

That officer, identified by the Police Department as Bryan Conroy, has refused
to comment. He remains on desk duty. A grand jury that is expected to hear
evidence in the case has not yet been convened.

Sanford Rubenstein, a lawyer representing the family, said they would request a
Monday meeting with Robert M. Morgenthau, the Manhattan district attorney. A
spokeswoman for Mr. Morgenthau would not comment, saying it is not the office's
policy to discuss pending cases. An association of immigrants from Burkina Faso
had raised money to pay for Ms. Sanfo and her brother-in-law to visit New York,
Mr. Rubenstein said.

Mr. Zongo had two children, a 5-year-old son, Fataw, and a 3-year-old daughter,
Fadilatou, who live with their mother in Yako, a village in Burkina Faso. Mr.
Zongo supported 70 people in that village, his brother said.

The brother, dressed in a shiny crinkled brown African robe, said that local
dignitaries had come to the airport in Ouagadougou when Mr. Zongo's body had
arrived from the United States, and then had attended his funeral. "Everyone was
asking the same question, 'Why, why, why did this happen to him?' " he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daouda Zongo, whose brother Ousmane was killed during a police
raid at a Chelsea storage area, is visiting New York, along with Sali Mata
Sanfo, Ousmane's wife. Ousmane was not a target of the raid. (Photo by Marilynn
K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Man in the News;
A Concern for Cities -- Nicholas Anthony DiMarzio Jr.

BYLINE:  By IVER PETERSON

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 892 words

DATELINE: CAMDEN, N.J., Aug. 1


Nicholas A. DiMarzio grew up across the street from Sacred Heart Cathedral on
Ridge Street in Newark, and he said he wanted to be a priest before he was sure
what being one meant.

Now Bishop DiMarzio will be leading the Diocese of Brooklyn after four years as
bishop of Camden, which has 445,000 Roman Catholics. It is his first church
posting outside his native New Jersey.

"The Brooklyn Diocese is one city, and here in the Diocese of Camden, we have
the three or four different dioceses," Bishop DiMarzio said in an interview
today. "There is the shore, where the churches are crammed three months of the
year; the farms, where we have thousands of immigrants coming to work; and
suburbs, where we have to deal with all the growth. And, of course, this city."

The welfare of Camden, one of the poorest cities in the country, has been a
special focus for Bishop DiMarzio, but it has been only one of the three themes
of his work. The others were coping with the diocese's sexual abuse scandal and
ensuring the rights of immigrants.

He helped found the Greater Camden Partnership, aimed at breaking down the rigid
social and economic boundaries that define so much of New Jersey's demographic
landscape. Working with other churches and nonprofit groups, Bishop DiMarzio
brought private investment in housing and business into the city and frequently
argued Camden's plight to state officials.

"He has done a lot of good by bringing the Catholic Church to the table both in
the city and regionally," said the Rev. Floyd L. White III of Woodland
Presbyterian Church, located in one of Camden's poorest neighborhoods.

Bishop DiMarzio arrived in 1999 from Newark, where he was the auxiliary bishop.
One of his first tasks was to help settle the scandal over the sexual abuse of
minors by priests that became public a few years into his tenure. He arranged
payments totaling $880,000 to 23 plaintiffs in abuse cases in March, and has
continued to fight lawsuits by plaintiffs who would not settle.

Some of his responses struck parishioners as bold. In the spring of 2002, he
devoted all 32 pages of The Catholic Star, the diocesan newsletter, to the abuse
scandal. The issue included an interview with a victim of abuse. He devoted an
entire issue to the topic, the bishop said at the time, to be sure everyone
understood the church's policies.

Bishop DiMarzio also took the decisions about handling complaints of abuse out
of the hands of the diocese by installing a toll-free complaint line that would
connect callers to a lawyer, Laurence E. Rosoff, a former municipal court judge
who was instructed to deal directly with the police on any abuse that arose. It
was the bishop's policy that civil authorities, not the church, were best
equipped to investigate allegations of sexual abuse.

"He's not afraid to share power, and to take risks," said the Rev. Michael J.
Doyle of Sacred Heart Church in Camden.

Nicholas Anthony DiMarzio Jr. was born in Newark on June 16, 1944, when his
father, Nicholas Sr., was still in the military. His father, who worked as a
Newark city health inspector, has since died, but his mother, born Grace Grande,
lives near her son in suburban Camden. Bishop DiMarzio is the oldest of three
children. All four of his grandparents are from southern Italy.

Since his first day at his parish elementary school, Bishop DiMarzio has kept to
an all-Catholic educational path. He attended St. Benedict's Preparatory, earned
his bachelor's degree from Seton Hall, a Bachelor of Sacred Theology at Catholic
University in Washington, and his master's degree in social work from Fordham
University.

It was not untilhe began working toward his doctorate in social work at Rutgers
that he entered a secular academic environment. "It did me good," he said today.
"It gave me a chance to see things differently, to see different points of
view."

It was as a young priest in Jersey City, Bishop DiMarzio said, that he took up
the lives of immigrants, and he would lobby Congress for more lenient laws as
head of the Conference of United States Bishop's Office of Migration and Refugee
Services. When it comes to immigration law, he is not a strict constructionist.

"We're trying to prevent terrorism with all this security legislation, and yet
we've got five to eight million people living and working among us and we don't
even know who they are," Bishop DiMarzio said. "How can you have security that
way?"

Bishop DiMarzio has retained enough of his college Spanish to say Mass in the
fields for migrant workers every summer, and for the last few summers he has
brought five Mexican priests to New Jersey to expand the field Masses. The
experience, he said, has taught him the futility of labeling immigrants legal or
illegal.

"I know this is a subject of public opinion debate," he said. "But they are
already here, living among us. We should legalize them all."

PROFILE
Nicholas A. DiMarzio Jr.

BORN -- June 16, 1944; Newark

HOMETOWN -- Newark

EDUCATION -- St. Benedict's Preparatory, Newark, 1962; B.A., Seton Hall
University, 1966; bachelor of sacred theology, Catholic University, 1970; master
of social work, Fordham University, 1980; Ph.D., social research and policy,
Rutgers University, 1985.

CAREER -- Parish priest, various parishes in New Jersey, 1970-96; auxiliary
bishop Archdiocese of Newark, 1996; bishop for the Diocese of Camden, 1999.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Nicholas A. DiMarzio

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 2, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Advocates for Immigrants Say Suffolk Officials Foster Bias

BYLINE:  By BRUCE LAMBERT

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 573 words


Advocates for immigrants praised the Suffolk County police yesterday for
arresting four teenagers in the burning of a Mexican family's home on Long
Island, but they also accused some elected officials and local leaders of
fostering bias against immigrants.

A coalition of 24 advocacy groups made its criticisms at a news conference in
Farmingville, in front of the charred house that was set on fire in the early
morning of July 5. The immigrant family sleeping inside escaped after neighbors
yelled and banged on the doors.

The groups commended the Suffolk police, who charged the four teenagers with
bias crimes on Thursday. But the advocates said there was a deeper problem in
Farmingville, a community of about 16,000, where some residents have organized
in recent years to halt the arrival of hundreds of immigrants, many of them
illegal.

"These young men grew up in an atmosphere where adults claiming to be speaking
for the community depicted Latinos as criminals and terrorists," said Patrick
Young, chairman of the coalition, the Long Island Immigrant Alliance.

The fire "was not an isolated incident," he said. Three years ago, at the house
next door, two men picked up two Mexican immigrants on the pretense of hiring
them but instead took them to a warehouse and beat them nearly to death.

Opponents of illegal immigrants say they overcrowd housing, burden local
services, evade taxes and loiter while they wait to be hired.

Mr. Young accused Joseph Caracappa, a county legislator, of endorsing "the
legislative agenda of a hate group" in proposing an English-only law for
government agencies and of falsely suggesting there was an immigrant crime wave.
He said a former legislator, Michael D'Andre, had condoned violence.

Robert J. Gaffney, the county executive, failed "to help Farmingville heal" and
vetoed the Legislature's plan for a hiring hall for immigrant day laborers, Mr.
Young said. He also called a local group, Sachem Quality of Life, "a
contributing factor to tensions in the community."

In an interview, Mr. Caracappa dismissed the allegation that he endorsed a hate
group's agenda. "I love it, absolutely love it when they criticize me," he said.
"It shows the taxpaying residents I represent that I'm doing my job." He called
the fire "an obviously terrible, stupid mistake by a bunch of youths that went
horribly wrong" and said he had offered a reward for tips in the investigation.

Mr. D'Andre acknowledged once saying that if immigrants moved to his area,
Smithtown, "we would be waiting with baseball bats." Later he said that he had
spoken "figuratively" and apologized.

"Violence is not the way to go," he said today. He sympathizes with
Farmingville's original residents, he said, and he also welcomes immigrants,
"but they've got to be legal and obey the law."

Mr. Gaffney deplored the fire as "abhorrent and despicable," said his spokesman,
Tim Ryan. As for the hiring hall, "he does not believe it's appropriate to spend
taxpayer dollars for people who are not paying taxes and for those who are
hiring them who are also not paying taxes." He added, "Would a hiring hall have
prevented a bunch of possibly deranged people from throwing an incendiary device
into a house?"

A Sachem leader, Ray Wysolmierski, who calls illegal immigrants "terrorists,"
disputed the critics. "We're trying to save this neighborhood," he said, "and
they're saying we have to treat our invaders and occupiers with respect."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 4, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jailing Immigrants

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; William Safire is on vacation.;  E-mail:
bobherb@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: CONGERS, N.Y.


The Al Laghetto Restaurant on Route 9W is a well-regarded family operation that
until recently was run by Elizabeta Markvukaj, her fiance, Vaso Nikpreljevic,
and his brother Mario.

Ms. Markvukaj is a friendly, formidable woman from Albania who carries with her
the disturbing memories of her years in a Communist internment camp. Vaso, Mario
and other members of the close-knit Nikpreljevic clan settled in the U.S. after
fleeing Montenegro in the 1990's.

After the violence, hatreds and atrocities they witnessed in their homelands,
these refugees had managed to knit together a life in quiet upstate Rockland
County that seemed very good indeed. Elizabeta and Vaso had a baby girl 18
months ago and were making plans for their wedding. They belonged to a local
church, paid their taxes promptly, contributed to charity and participated in
Sept. 11 relief efforts.

It's hard to imagine a family that is less of a threat to the peace and
well-being of the United States. And yet everything the family has worked toward
is unraveling.

On Nov. 30, 2002, Mr. Nikpreljevic was pulled over for speeding on the
Connecticut Turnpike. A computer check revealed that his immigration papers were
not in order. A nightmare scenario ensued. He was handcuffed and arrested, and
has not been out of custody since. The government has ordered him deported. And
under current law he would be barred from any realistic chance of returning.

"He hasn't done anything wrong," said Ms. Markvukaj. Tears streamed down her
face during an interview on a large, covered patio behind the restaurant. She
described how she took the baby, Nina, to visit Vaso in prison ("She recognized
him!"), how business has fallen off in the restaurant and how the family is
fighting with everything it has to block Vaso's deportation.

Mr. Nikpreljevic's immigration history is complicated. His lawyers, Theodore Cox
and Joshua Bardavid, said that back in the early-90's when he first came to the
U.S., Mr. Nikpreljevic's mother submitted a petition on his behalf requesting
authorization to apply for a green card. That petition was approved. But Mr.
Nikpreljevic submitted a request for asylum. That was denied and he was
deported.

He returned to the U.S. illegally, through Canada. But, according to the
lawyers, he paid a $1,000 penalty and was permitted to apply for a green card
and remain in the U.S. pending a decision on his application.

As he had never been in trouble, and his relatives and fiancee had all been able
to secure citizenship or permanent residency status, he did not anticipate a
problem.

But times (and the treatment of immigrants) have changed since Sept. 11. After
his arrest in Connecticut, Mr. Nikpreljevic was told that his application had
been "terminated." No reason was given, his lawyers said. Mr. Nikpreljevic has
been held in a number of prisons in Connecticut and Massachusetts since then,
the latest being the Osborn Correctional Institution in Somers, Conn.

When he is being moved from one prison to another, his family said, officials
just show up in the middle of the night and take him away -- a very frightening
procedure. Thousands of men and women, many of them completely innocent, are
ensnared in this system, which is fundamentally uncaring and frequently cruel.
Many of the immigrants never even see an attorney.

In Mr. Nikpreljevic's case, the lawyers have challenged the decision by
immigration authorities to "terminate" his application for permanent residency
status. If their effort is unsuccessful he will be deported, and there is little
doubt his family will be devastated.

Mr. Nikpreljevic and his relatives are exactly the kinds of productive
individuals who help a society to thrive. They have been a boon to their local
community and are assets to the U.S. as a whole. But the law, especially in
times of great fear, does not always leave room for wise decisions. And where
immigrants are concerned, the system becomes more of a crapshoot than ever.

So the extended family that is anchored by the Al Laghetto Restaurant is holding
its collective breath, hoping for a merciful ruling from the courts.

The speeding charge, by the way, was dismissed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Indians Attacked on Street And the Police Call It Bias

BYLINE:  By PATRICK HEALY

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 633 words


Three men attacked a family of Indian immigrants outside the family's Queens
home on Sunday night, the police said. The victims said they were punched, spit
on and told "bin Laden family, go back to your country."

The police said bias may have motivated the attackers, who were described by the
victims as white men. One of the victims, 32-year-old Lakhvir Singh Gill, said
yesterday that he was sure prejudice and alcohol were behind the attack.

"They were drunk," Mr. Gill said yesterday of the attackers, as he rubbed his
back and pointed out his injuries -- a swollen lip and bruises all over his
body. "It's my whole body in pain."

The attack, in Woodside, happened little more than a week after another
suspected incident of bias in Queens. On July 26, a 12-year-old Hispanic girl
visiting the virtually all-white enclave of Breezy Point was assaulted by a
41-year-old Breezy Point woman, prosecutors charged. According to the
prosecutors, the woman assaulted the girl with a plastic wagon after telling the
girl and her mother that blacks and Hispanics did not belong in Breezy Point.

The victims in the latest attack -- a married couple and Mr. Gill, their cousin
-- were returning home on Sunday evening from an afternoon spent house-hunting
on Long Island. Too tired to cook, they had stopped at the Jackson Heights
Indian Market for take-out chicken curry and were walking toward their apartment
at 59th Street and 47th Avenue when the three men, who had been sitting in a
livery cab, began taunting one of the men, who was wearing a Sikh turban,
calling him "bin Laden," his wife said. She asked that she and her husband not
be identified for fear of retaliation.

The victims said they told the men, "Relax, relax," and explained that theywere
Indian immigrants from Punjab with no connections to Osama bin Laden or to the
Taliban who sheltered him in Afghanistan.

The woman, sensing a fight was imminent, told her 10-year-old son and 8-year-old
daughter to run into the apartment and call for help.

But the attackers started cursing the victims, spat on them, and grabbed Mr.
Gill by the neck, putting him in a headlock, he and the woman said. Then, the
attackers pushed and punched the victims, continuing to curse them as the woman
implored them to go away, the victims said.

Mr. Gill said the men shoved him to the ground, kicking and hitting him as he
curled into a fetal position to shield his head.

The attack lasted about four minutes before neighbors, hearing shouts, called
the police, and a pizza deliverer intervened and tried to get the attackers off
Mr. Gill.

"I was going to try to do whatever I could to get these guys off of him," said
the deliverer, Greg Hodge, 41, who had met the victims a few times earlier while
making deliveries for Woodside Pizza.

The three attackers ran off before the police arrived, the victims said.

Yesterday afternoon, the woman and Mr. Gill were recuperating at home while the
other victim, a taxi driver, was at work. All three declined to go to a hospital
for treatment.

Mr. Gill, who also drives a cab, said no one in Woodside had ever bothered or
harmed them before.

"It's the first time it's happened in my life," said the woman, a special
education teacher. "It's very insulting. We live in America. We are American
citizens."

Though Woodside was once almost exclusively Irish, Mr. Gill said his neighbors
are from many nationalities, including Greek, Colombian, Chinese, Arabic and
Spanish.

For the victims, the attack conjured memories of the Sikhs and Muslims who were
targeted after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Mr. Gill and the woman recalled
how some men shaved their beards and doffed their turbans to avoid reprisals.

But the woman said her husband would not trim his beard because of the assault.

"We are strong people," she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lakhvir Singh Gill described how three men attacked him and two
of his cousins on a street in Woodside, Queens, on Sunday night. (Photo by
Shannon Stapleton for The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 5, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant's Nightmare

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 100 words


To the Editor:

Bob Herbert's portrayal of one man's journey from Montenegro to an American jail
is telling ("Jailing Immigrants," column, Aug. 4).

As the disparity between rich and poor countries increases, so, too, will
political instability and the risk that people will be forced to move for purely
economic reasons.

Therefore, distinguishing between growing numbers of unauthorized economic
migrants and bona fide asylum seekers will pose an even greater challenge to
immigration authorities. It appears as though Vaso Nikpreljevic found this out
firsthand.

BEN WINIG
Madison, Wis., Aug. 4, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Census Finds More Americans Flee Than Find California Dream

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 541 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 5


Though immigrants kept California's population rising in the latter half of the
1990's, for the first time more people left the state than moved in from other
states, the Census Bureau says.

Four reports being released on Wednesday offered the most comprehensive look so
far at domestic migration in 2000.

Only New York, which lost 874,000 more residents to other states than it took
in, had a bigger net decline than California, which lost 755,000. Illinois, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania also lost more than they gained.

The figures count only gains and losses between states. California had a big
gain when foreign immigrants were counted.

The longtime retirement destination of Florida had the biggest net increase,
with 607,000 more people coming in than leaving. Warm-weather states with
fast-growing economies in the late 1990's rounded out the top five: Georgia,
North Carolina, Arizona and Nevada.

William Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution in Washington, said
the California exodus could be a sign that residents were fed up with high
housing prices and sprawl.

Analysts also noted that although the San Francisco Bay area's economy boomed in
the late 1990's, Southern California's economy slumped.

The biggest destination for Californians was neighboring Nevada, where 199,000
settled.

"People are leaving urbanism and wanting to move where there is more space or
more affordable housing," Mr. Frey said.

Over all, California drew about 1.4 million residents from other states from
1995 to 2000 but lost 2.2 million of its residents.

Spurred by immigration, however, the state population still rose 14 percent, or
4.1 million people, from 1990 to 2000 to nearly 33.9 million. Its foreign-born
population rose by more than one-third to almost 8.9 million.

The state lost more residents than it gained for the first time since the
government started keeping track of domestic migration statistics in 1940, a
Census Bureau analyst, Jason Schachter said.

The trend may be in large part because of immigrants using California as a
springboard to find work in other parts of the country, said Dowell Myers, a
demographer at the University of Southern California.

The 2000 census showed Hispanic population growth in large cities as well as
small towns and rural areas across the country, especially in the Midwest and
South.

"California has been the recipient of much of the nation's immigration," Mr.
Myers said. "The only way you can balance that is by exporting people out of
state. These numbers should in no way be attributed as a setback to California."

The report was based on people's responses to the 2000 census long-form
question, which asked if the respondent had lived in the same address five years
earlier. Those who responded "no" were then asked to say from where they had
moved.

Over all, of the 262 million people 5 and older in 2000, 120 million, or 45.9
percent, had moved in the previous five years. That is down slightly from the
46.7 percent of people in the 1990 census who moved.

Mr. Schachter said people in their 20's and early 30's are the most apt to move.
Rates decline until retirement age, then increase especially after age 85, when
many people either are moved to nursing homes or closer to family members.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Women Get Jail for Forcing Girls Into Brothels

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 7


Their words, relayed through an interpreter, were halting and disjointed. But
the poignancy of their stories was magnified by the fidgeting and sobbing of the
three teenage Mexican girls, as they told a nearly full courtroom today how they
had been lured to the United States from poor villages and forced to work as
prostitutes in two New Jersey brothels.

The girls' account came during the sentencing today of two sisters, also Mexican
immigrants,who confessed to virtually enslaving the young girls and forcing them
to perform sex acts seven days a week for customers at brothels in Plainfield
and Elizabeth.

The two women, Antonia Jimenez-Calderon, 40, and her sister Librada
Jimenez-Calderon, 43, were sentenced to 17 1/2 years in prison by a visibly
angry Judge Faith S. Hochberg of Federal District Court who called the crimes
among "the most depraved" she had seen.

The sentence, the first under a 2000 law intended to curb the trafficking of
children for sex, was the maximum that the two women could have received. The
girls, who were all under 18 when forced into the brothels, were identified only
by their initials.

The girls walked one by one to the well of the courtroom, where they expressed
their anger and indignation at the hunched, manacled figures who had been their
captors.

"You have fallen into your own trap," said one of the girls, identified as
M.R.H., as she looked at the two sisters.

Another of the girls said she did not like it when they had called her stupid,
and added, "but now you can see that I am not stupid and can do things."

The third girl said, "It is your fault that I lost my friends, my parents."

In a news conference after the sentencing, Christopher J. Christie, the United
States attorney for New Jersey, said that this sort of crime is among the most
difficult to prosecute because its victims are usually beaten, intimidated and
brainwashed into fearing law enforcement. The girls in this case, he said, bore
all the "physical and psychological scars" of such treatment.

A routine raid of the Plainfield brothel by the local police and persistent
questioning by investigators eventually uncovered an organized ring that
trafficked in such unworldly girls.

At the heart of the scheme, investigators said, were the two brothers of the
women sentenced today. The men, Delfino Jimenez-Calderon and Luis
Jimenez-Calderon, would romance and in some cases rape girls in Mexican towns
like San Puebla, Oaxaca and Hidalgo.

They would promise to marry the girls. But first, the girls were told, they
would have to be smuggled into the United States to stay with the men's sisters
and earn some money until their fiances could join them.

Once the girls arrived, the sisters would beat them and force them to work as
prostitutes at $35 per customer. They were isolated from one another and
forbidden to talk to the adult prostitutes in the brothel, who were free to come
and go as they pleased, investigators said.

The two Jimenez-Calderon brothers remain at large. Three other defendants -- a
social worker who helped the girls get false birth certificates, and the owners
of the houses where the girls were kept -- have pleaded guilty to additional
charges in the case.

Judge Hochberg rejected arguments that the sisters were themselves victims of
poverty and lacking in education.

"You exploited the most vulnerable -- sexually naive young girls -- lied to
them, using the same dreams of the good life that you had for yourself," Judge
Hochberg said. They were enslaved by you just as if they were caged animals."

Mr. Christie said the teenagers would have a right to seek legal residency in
the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 11, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Mom's Cooking, 2,200 Miles Isn't Too Far

BYLINE:  By ANDREA ELLIOTT

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1392 words


In the back of a small shop in Queens, hundreds of packages are stacked to the
ceiling. They hold a feast of fragile things: freshly-baked bread, homemade
candy, and in one plastic bag, Florencio Sosa's favorite mole sauce, cooked by
his mother-in-law 48 hours earlier in a tiny village 2,200 miles away.

"There's nothing like the flavor of a mother's cooking," said Mr. Sosa, 31, a
factory worker who left Mexico for New York in 1990 and never returned. "It's a
way of going back."

Week after week, the packages make their way from Puebla, Mexico, to Tulcingo
Travel in Jackson Heights, part of a thriving underground of cross-border
couriers who fly back and forth between the New York area and Latin America,
transporting the sorely missed pleasures of home to the city's immigrants with
an immediacy that is changing their way of life.

The service is simple: Mr. Sosa calls his mother-in-law, orders some mole and
she drops her chocolate-flavored chili sauce at a satellite office in her town,
Huamuxtitlan. One or two men pick up the package and hundreds more and stuff
them into suitcases. Some are shipped on cargo planes and others travel with the
couriers aboard commercial flights.

United States customs officials began noticing the couriers two years ago at
Kennedy and Newark Liberty International Airports and now see them daily, coming
off flights from Ecuador, Costa Rica, Colombia, Mexico and other Latin American
countries.

"Those are a headache for us," said a laughing Robert Redes, director of cargo
operations for agriculture inspection with United States Customs and Border
Protection at Kennedy Airport. "It's almost like Christmas, where we have to
open up every one of these things to see what we have."

The operation is legal, Mr. Redes said, as long as the packages inside contain
no meat or fresh produce.

Known in Spanish as paqueterias, the courier services tap into the nostalgia
market, filling an aching void between New York's poorer immigrants, many not
legal residents, and the people they left behind. Often faster, cheaper and more
connected to the remote corners of Latin America than larger shipping companies
like Federal Express, the services sustain a transnational culture unthinkable
to the waves of immigrants who braved the move to New York even 20 years ago.

Tucked in plastic bags and Tupperware containers, an array of things -- legal
and illegal -- cross the border every day: cooked guinea pigs (an Ecuadorean
delicacy), videotapes of missed baptisms and weddings, goats baked in cactus
leaves, bundles of ripe chili peppers, letters sent by those impatient with the
pace of regular mail and tall stacks of totopos, 10- to 15-inch-wide tortillas.

"When I finish them, I make a call and they send me more," Luis Pavia, 35, of
Manhattan, said with a shrug as he tore open his 10-pound bag of totopos -- sent
by his mother in Zapotitlan, Mexico -- and broke off a piece to chew while
paying the $45 fee at Tulcingo Travel. Also in his package: Triatop, an
anti-dandruff shampoo. "The shampoo here is bad for me," he explained.

The shipments exchange the best of both worlds. From the United States, people
send home packages of sneakers, televisions, CD players and other comforts that
are luxuries to many in Latin America.

Back to the United States come less expensive things deemed equally priceless by
the recipients.

For example, in New York, a city that is now home to a reported 300,000
Mexicans, Mr. Sosa could have walked a block from the small house he shares with
nine relatives to buy mole sauce from a Mexican grocer. When asked why he shells
out roughly $25 of his $350 weekly salary for packages from Mexico when he could
make or buy the food here, he replies with the words echoed by many others: "No
es lo mismo." -- "It's not the same."

The difference is felt or tasted in everything from the flavor of certain
dishes, to the way they are made by grocers here versus mothers at home, to less
obvious oddities.

"The guinea pigs here are different," said Jose Ludizaca, owner of Ecuatoriana
Multi Business Service in Hackensack and Trenton, N.J., which ships packages to
and from Ecuador and Colombia. "They are raised on grass in Ecuador. Here they
taste different." (Cooked guinea pigs are allowed through customs.)

Though Mexican bakeries abound in New York, the well-traversed packages of pan
dulce (sweet bread) continue to filter in.

"Here there's bread you can buy for 50 cents," said Carmelo Maceda, 45, a
Mexican immigrant advocate in Manhattan who asks his brother in Tulcingo to send
him bread from time to time. "The one from my town can cost me $8, but it's made
from my town."

The owner of a Mexican bakery in Queens, Gerardo Torres, shakes his head at the
feat of pleasing Mexicans with one kind of bread. "These are very complicated
customs we are talking about," said Mr. Torres, who makes bread in the style of
his hometown, Cholula. "Some people use more cinnamon, others use more orange."

For Mr. Sosa, it is not about tasting the right combination of ingredients in
his beloved mole so much as "tasting home," as he puts it. His
immigrant-to-homeland exchange is made possible only by cheaper telephone rates,
expanded air routes and classic immigrant entrepreneurship.

The owners of paqueterias in the New York area tend to be from the countries the
businesses serve.

Juan Luna, a Mexican immigrant, opened Tulcingo Travel on Roosevelt Avenue in
1996 after he saw a growing need for a package service between Puebla State and
New York. His couriers deliver the packages to five offices in the Puebla
region, and sometimes directly to a person's home, with the help of his brother,
who manages the business from Mexico.

Such direct access is not often the forte of larger shipping companies. For
example, if someone wanted to send a 20-pound package of clothes to
Huamuxtitlan, with Federal Express, the recipient would have to travel roughly
125 miles to retrieve it, at the nearest office in Acapulco. It would cost the
sender $125.36 (not including taxes or duties), compared to $90 at Tulcingo
Travel (which also pays taxes and duties) and would take three days to arrive,
said Pam Roberson, a spokeswoman for Federal Express.

"It's the transnationalization of local life," said Robert C. Smith, a
sociologist at Barnard College who has extensively studied New York's Mexican
population. "They're quite able to maintain certain kinds of links despite the
fact that they are 2,500 miles apart, because of technology. Time and space
don't define our social lives in the way they did before."

The packages strive to feed fading memories, and bridge generational gaps. "This
you can't make here," smiled Silvia Anzures, 30, and originally of Puebla state,
as she pointed to her newly arrived plastic packages -- which cost $10 each --
filled with candies reminiscent of peanut brittle. "I don't even know how you
make it."

There have been a few paqueterias in New York for decades, but the number
increased in the last five to 10 years, with Mexican packaging services as the
latest addition. While they generally charge less than more established shipping
services, the costs can be steep for families that earn little. Tulcingo Travel,
for example, charges $4.50 per pound for packages sent to Mexico ($5.50 if they
include electronics), and $3.00 per pound for packages sent from Mexico to the
United States.

Business is flowing: every week, the company, which also has offices in Staten
Island and Brooklyn, sends two 500-pound shipments of packages to Mexico, and
brings back a shipment weighing an average of 6,000 pounds, Mr. Luna said.

The company warns customers not to ship meat or produce, but sometimes such
items are caught by customs officials, which leads to fines.

Cornelio Cielo, who irons clothes at a dry cleaner in Queens, does not question
the wisdom of spending part of his $350-weekly salary on shipments to and from
his parents in Cholula. He left the town and illegally crossed the border to the
United States seven years ago, he said. He has not been back.

"I send my parents clothes and videos of what the life is like here, the
trains," said Mr. Cielo, 22, who lives in Queens. "I love both countries very
much. Mexico, because I grew up there and love my parents. Here, because there's
money and it's pretty. And there is no great hardship. Everything is good."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Marilu Arroyo and Fernando Garcia handle it all, from tortillas
to cooked guinea pigs, at a Queens package center. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The
New York Times)(pg. A1); Members of the Sosa family enjoyed lemon-roasted
pumpkin seeds in their Queens apartment last week. The treat was shipped to them
from relatives in Mexico, through Tulcingo Travel in Queens. Luis Pavia of
Manhattan, left, was at Tulcingo Travel recently to pick up a package of
tortillas sent by his mother in Mexico. The business, called a paqueteria,
handles packages sent to and from immigrants from Latin America. (Photographs by
Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 13, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Legislators in Florida Criticize Bush on Cuba

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1067 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Aug. 12


A song enjoying frequent airtime on a Spanish-language radio station here
crystallizes the deepening discontent of Cuban-Americans with the White House.
It ends, "All together, let's sing: Bush is betraying us."

Bombastic D.J.'s are not the only ones complaining, especially after President
Bush sent back to Havana 12 Cubans accused of hijacking a government mapping
boat and whom the Coast Guard caught on July 16 off the Bahamas. For exile
leaders who had been grumbling about what they saw as unfulfilled promises by
Mr. Bush, the repatriation was a trigger point.

On Monday, 13 Republican state legislators, including 10 Cuban-Americans, sent
the president a warning. In a pointed letter, they wrote that if Mr. Bush did
not make "substantial progress" toward fulfilling four Cuban-American demands,
"we fear the historic and intense support from Cuban-American voters for
Republican federal candidates, including yourself, will be jeopardized."

The implicit threat to Mr. Bush's ability to take Florida next year cannot be
underestimated, political consultants here say. Cubans are the sole immigrant
group who vote solidly Republican, and the 833,000 Cuban-Americans in Florida
were crucial in Mr. Bush's victory over Al Gore in 2000. Mr. Bush won the state
by 537 votes, and more than 80 percent of the immigrants from Cuba who voted
supported him. The state has 25 of the 538 electoral votes, fourth after
California, New York and Texas.

"Our community wants to support him all the way," a signer, Representative David
Rivera of Miami, said. "But when the administration keeps talking about actions
that are forthcoming, people expect them, and when they don't come, people get
frustrated."

In particular, the letter urges Mr. Bush to revise the "wet foot, dry foot"
policy that President Bill Clinton negotiated with Fidel Castro in 1994. The
policy allows Cubans who land in the United States by boat or other means to
stay, but requires those intercepted at sea to return to Cuba.

The lawmakers wrote that Cuban-Americans in southern Florida, where virtually
all Cubans who flee to the United States by water arrive, were "firmly opposed"
to the policy.

The Coast Guard intercepted 931 Cubans at sea last year. The figure for this
year is almost 900.

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Bush said he would thoroughly review the
immigration policy and all other Clinton policies on Cuba. In May 2002, months
before his brother Jeb Bush's re-election as governor of Florida, the president
told cheering Cuban-Americans here that he would ease travel and trade
restrictions only if Mr. Castro instituted changes like releasing political
prisoners and holding "free and fair" elections.

Instead, Mr. Castro has cracked down on dissidents in recent months, executing
three who hijacked a ferryboat and arresting dozens in the most severe instances
of political repression in Cuba in decades. That is a big part of why exile
leaders were so upset at the administration's decision to repatriate the 12
aboard the government mapping vessel, the Gaviota 16. They were returned on the
condition that they not be executed or receive prison sentences longer than 10
years, a tradeoff that the lawmakers who wrote the letter called "misguided and
offensive."

Six of the 12 were freed when they returned. The trial of the other six was on
Monday, with prosecutors asking for sentences of 7 to 10 years.

Other incidents that have stirred resentment about the wet foot, dryfoot policy
include the return of seven Cubans who tried to reach Florida in a pickup truck
mounted on oil drums. They were caught 40 miles south of Key West, just over
half the 90-mile distance from Cuba.

Another case was the interception of 19 Cubans, including some dissidents, on a
boat just off Cuba.

A professor of international relations at Florida International University,
Damian Fernandez, said the lawmakers' letter put the White House in a
predicament. It was sent as the Republican Party has begun to splinter on Cuba,
Professor Fernandez, a Cuban-American, said, with lawmakers from Midwest
agricultural states and many businessmen lobbying for lifting the trade ban.

"There is a distinct split, whereas in the past there has been a monolithic
consensus," he said. "Caught between all these competing interests, he doesn't
have much wiggle room, and it becomes a zero-sum game at some point."

In addition to revising the immigration policy, the letter writers asked Mr.
Bush to indict Mr. Castro, who turns 77 on Wednesday, for shooting down two
planes flown by Cuban-Americans, and to find a way for Cubans to watch TV Marti,
American government broadcasts which Havana censors. The lawmakers also asked
for added financial and technical assistance for the Cuban opposition.

The White House referred a call about the letter to the National Security
Council, which did not respond to telephone messages.
Although the administration has hinted that it will announce changes in its Cuba
policy soon, Professor Fernandez predicted that at most it would tinker around
the edges of the wet foot, dry foot policy. Representative Rivera said that for
now the tinkering might be enough for many Cuban-Americans, as long as Mr. Bush
has a good explanation and stops making promises he cannot keep.

"If more can't be done right now," he said, "I would think the community would
be accepting of it."

But Representative Manuel Prieguez, the Miami Republican who heads the Hispanic
Caucus in the Florida House, suggested otherwise.

"In good conscience," Mr. Prieguez asked, "am I going to let myself support the
president of the United States if he doesn't do anything? Of course not."

Mr. Prieguez said that state lawmakers were crucial to get-out-the-vote efforts
in presidential campaigns and that he was encouraged to hear that several
signers of the letter had received conciliatory calls from Mr. Bush's aides. But
Mr. Prieguez also praised Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, the
Democratic presidential hopeful who has condemned the return of the 12 accused
hijackers.

Joe Garcia, executive director of the Cuban American National Foundation, the
most prominent exile group, said that the letter signers were among "the base of
the party, Jeb Bush's strongest allies."

"A lot of people like to say, 'If Caesar had only known,' " said Mr. Garcia,
whose group sent Mr. Bush its own critical letter last week. "Well, now Caesar
knows."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mijail Suarez, left, and Yosvel Daniel Chavez, two of six
people on trial on Monday in Camaguey, Cuba, in the hijacking of a government
boat. The Coast Guard seized a group on the boat in July and returned it to
Havana. (Photo by Agence France-Presse); The Coast Guard seized Cubans on a
floating truck 40 miles from Key West last month and took them to Cuba. The
craft was sunk as a hazard. (Photo by Gregory Ewald/U.S. Coast Guard)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

False Identity Yields Sentence Of Six Months

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 341 words


A Chinese immigrant who assumed the identity of a dead man to reap the benefits
of his American citizenship was sentenced to six months in prison yesterday by a
federal judge in Manhattan who described his fraud as elaborate and carefully
planned.

The defendant, Shi Tian Wu, who was convicted in May, took on the identity of
the dead American, Havelock Woo, who died in New Jersey in 1988. Prosecutors
told the jury that Mr. Wu began to petition the Immigration and Naturalization
Service to allow family members in China to come to the United States as
relatives of an American citizen, which would accelerate the process.

In court yesterday, Mr. Wu's lawyer, Steven M. Statsinger, asked the judge to
allow his client to avoid prison, saying such a sentence would be "unduly
harsh." He noted that Mr. Wu was over 70, had a "host of medical problems" and
acted only to help his family get out of China.

But the judge, Thomas P. Griesa of Federal District Court, rejected the request.
"Regardless of the motive," the judge said, "regardless of the country involved,
when there is that kind of fraud against the United States government and the
immigration service, that is a serious interference with the enforcement of our
legitimate laws."

Mr. Wu was convicted of making false statements on passport and immigration
documents, and of obtaining a passport to which he was not entitled. His story
was that he was born Havelock Woo in New York some 75 years ago, moved to China
as a young boy, and lived there before returning to this country in 1992.

The government has not said how it believed that Mr. Wu, who was born in 1931 in
the Chinese province of Guangdong, chose the dead man and carried out such a
sophisticated scheme. Mr. Wu had a passport, for example, with his photograph,
but the name, birth date and place of birth of the actual Havelock Woo, evidence
showed.

Mr. Wu did not speak in court, and Mr. Statsinger said later that his client
would appeal the case. Mr. Wu could have faced one year in prison under
sentencing guidelines.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Treasure Hunt For Lost Memories

BYLINE:  By SAMUEL G. FREEDMAN

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1187 words

DATELINE: MONTEVIDEO, Uruguay


Twenty years ago, an anthropologist named Teresa Porzecanski placed an
advertisement in a Jewish newspaper serving this distant compass point of the
Diaspora. She was looking for the residue of an unrecorded history, the letters
and snapshots of tens of thousands of immigrants from Eastern Europe and the
Ottoman Empire.

Mystified about why a scholar would care for the contents of their closets and
bottom drawers, the aging immigrants or their offspring warily came forward, not
only with mail and photographs but also with silverware, ritual candlesticks,
samovars. Ms. Porzecanski and her students then set out, notebooks and tape
recorders in hand, to interview family elders.

Those memories and donations began an unlikely boomlet in scholarship and
literature chronicling the Jewish experience in a nation that espoused and
largely practiced an American-style commitment to the melting pot. Uruguay's
Jewish population has dwindled from 40,000 after World War II to an unofficial
estimate of 15,000 now, primarily because of economic woes in this country of
3.4 million. But it has produced a stream of memoirs, academic treatises, oral
histories and novels. The most commercially successful to date, Mauricio
Rosencof's autobiographical novel "The Letters That Didn't Come" ("Las Cartas
que no Llegaron"), will be released in English translation in the United States
in 2004 by the University of New Mexico Press.

"It was like they discovered something that had been invisible," Ms. Porzecanski
said of her interviewees. "They didn't give importance to their own lives. There
was a sense of being ashamed of their own history, of being pursued and
persecuted in their homelands. And they didn't realize the importance of what
they'd done here -- form a bank or a charity or an organization."

Miguel Feldman, a leading historian of Jewish life in Uruguay, sees the recent
outpouring as a kind of desperate act. "The Jewish community is becoming smaller
and smaller, and the eldest people realize the knowledge of our origins is
getting lost," said Mr. Feldman, 74, speaking in Spanish through an interpreter
at a Montevideo hotel. "The first generation is already gone. I'm an immigrant's
son and I'm already old."

The body of Uruguayan Jewish writing points to a broader demographic truth, the
shrinking of the Diaspora itself. Today Israel and the United States account for
more than 80 percent of the world's Jewish population, 10.3 million of 12.5
million, said Steven Bayme, the national director of contemporary Jewish life
for the American Jewish Committee.

In 1939 fewer than one-third of Jews lived in the United States and what was
then Palestine -- 5.2 million of 17 million. Even after the Holocaust, fewer
than half the world's Jews lived in those lands.

Yet Uruguay is also distinctive in its neighborhood. Unlike Argentina and many
other Latin American countries, Uruguay has been a liberal, secular democracy
for much of its history. It became a republic in 1830 and has remained one, with
the exception of right-wing dictatorships in the periods of 1932-38 and 1973-85.
It separated church and state in 1917. And by 1890, it had enacted a "policy of
the open door," encouraging immigration by issuing visas free of charge and even
providing a hostel for new arrivals.

Although the earliest Jewish immigrants to Uruguay hailed primarily from Ottoman
Turkey, the majority ultimately came from Eastern Europe, Hungary and Germany.
Thousands arrived in the middle and late 1930's, when the United States largely
refused to accept Jewish refugees from Hitler's Europe, and Latin American
nations like Cuba, Mexico and Argentina set similar barriers.

The experiences of the first generation of Uruguayan Jews now fill such
scholarly works as Mr. Feldman's "Difficult Times" ("Tiempos Dificiles") and Ms.
Porzecanski's "History of the Lives of Jewish Immigrants in Uruguay" ("Historias
de Vida de Imigrantes Judios al Uruguay"). In a more personal vein, Esther
Cukierman's "Immigrant" recounts her father's journey from Poland to Uruguay in
the 1920's, while Raul Jacob explores the belongings of one German Jewish
refugee to depict a life in "Uncle Hugo's Suitcase" ("La Valija del Tio Hugo").

By the mid-1990's, the books had begun to attract attention among Uruguay's
other ethnic groups, which include Spaniards and Italians. The incomparably
titled "From Matza to Mate" ("Entra la Matza y el Mate") -- mate being the
national drink, a kind of tea brewed from a local tree -- was written by Jewish
and gentile authors. It received a full-page review in the Montevideo newspaper
El Pais under a headline that translated as "Fiddler on the Roof."

"It is a happy sign that the multicultural mosaic is seeking to give a space to
its parts," said Ilan Stavans, a professor at Amherst College who is an expert
in Latin American Jewish literature. "Jews, no longer pariahs, are recognized as
playing a crucial part in the nation's puzzle."

The encounter of Jews and Uruguay has yielded both humor and poignancy. The
quintessential immigrant worked as a peddler known by the Spanish-Yiddish term
"cuentenik." The "cuente," meaning bill or check, referred to the handwritten
records that the peddlers used to keep their accounts. A really successful
"cuentenik" hired underlings called "klappers," from the Yiddish word for
knocking, who went door to door soliciting orders. A customer who failed to pay
his bill was called a "tshvok," the Yiddish word for "nail," alluding to a
Uruguayan idiom that an unpaid debt is as irritating as a nail.

Research by Mr. Feldman and Ms. Porzecanski has also resurrected the heroism of
an Uruguyan diplomat named Florencio Rivas. While serving as consul general in
Germany, Rivas harbored more than 150 Jews on embassy grounds during
Kristallnacht in 1938, when Nazi-inspired mobs attacked synagogues and Jews. He
then issued them all passports and visas ensuring passage to Uruguay.

So far, however, no book has matched the phenomenon of Mr. Rosencof's "Letters
That Never Came." This stream-of-consciousness narrative traverses 60 years of
Uruguayan history, from the immigrant pluck of the author's father to the deaths
of the author's Polish grandparents in the Holocaust to the author's own
imprisonment for 11 years during the 1970's and 1980's because of his leadership
of the revolutionary Tupamaros group. "Las Cartas," which has gone through 10
printings in South America and two printings in Spain, is being adapted for the
stage in Uruguay and translated into English by Louise Popkin. (Mr. Rosencof's
American publisher has already released English versions of two novellas by Ms.
Porzecanski, "Sun Inventions" and "Perfumes of Carthage.")

"It's a work that touches on the relationship between parents and ancestors,"
Mr. Rosencof said in a recent telephone interview. "We all have in our ancestry
someone who came on the boats." His own parents belonged to a generation of poor
Jews. "They worked all day," he said. "They didn't talk much about the past. We
never had the chance to ask, how was the music in your village, what was the war
like, what was life like."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mauricio Rosencof, right, became a memoirist of the Jews in
Uruguay. (Photo Courtesy Mauricio Rosencof); Teresa Porzecanski researched the
unrecorded history of Jews in Uruguay by interviewing many of the few who still
remain. (Photo by Mariana Suarez for The New York Times)(pg. A15); The author
Mauricio Rosencof, whose "Letters That Didn't Come" will be released in English
next year, at the Holocaust Memorial in Montevideo. (Photo by Mariana Suarez for
The New York Times); Miguel Feldman, historian of Uruguay's shrinking Jewish
community. (Photographs by Mariana Suarez for The New York Times)(pg. A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 18, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Company Loyalty and America's Loss of Jobs

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 102 words


To the Editor:

Paul Krugman (column, Aug. 15) describes the loss of 50,000 American jobs every
month and the need to create 110,000 new jobs every month just to keep up with
population growth.

So why are we compounding the problem and making economic recovery more
difficult by continuing to take in millions of immigrants every year and
acquiescing in about 12 million illegal immigrants remaining in our country?

Importing workers is worse than exporting jobs because those immigrants and all
their descendants are added to our skyrocketing population growth.

THOMAS P. MCKENNA
Montpelier, Vt., Aug. 15, 2003

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 22, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Metro Briefing New York: Manhattan: Deportation For Club Owner

BYLINE:  AP; Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 125 words


Peter Gatien, former owner of the nightclubs the Limelight and the Tunnel, has
been ordered to leave the country. At a hearing on Wednesday, Judge Elizabeth
Lamb of the Executive Office of Immigration Review, part of the Justice
Department, ordered Mr.

Gatien deported. Mr. Gatien, who pleaded guilty in 1999 to tax evasion, was born
in Canada. He was ordered removed under a clause in immigration law that says
any immigrant convicted of an aggravated felony can be deported. His lawyer,
Benjamin Brafman, did not return repeated telephone calls. Mr. Gatien was
acquitted in 1998 of charges that he turned his nightclubs into drug dens. But
he and his wife pleaded guilty in January 1999 to state tax evasion charges. The
clubs were sold in 2001.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

'A Little United Nations' Reduced to Ashes

BYLINE:  By COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 820 words


The four-alarm fire that swept through a commercial strip on Queens Boulevard on
Thursday left many businesses in charred ruins and their owners calling
insurance adjusters.

The fire ravaged the block in Sunnyside, a strip that had come to embody the
diverse ethnic mix of those who live and shop in the neighborhood. Several
immigrant merchants watched their dreams go up in flames, and they were left
wondering if their businesses would ever be in a position to return.

On the block between 41st and 42nd Streets, which is lined with one-story
businesses, there stood a Korean church, nightclub and grocery, a Chinese-owned
cleaners, an Indian-owned Dunkin' Donuts, a Hispanic calling center and an Irish
bar, butcher and travel agency: All of these businesses were either destroyed or
damaged in the fire.

"You had a little United Nations on this block," said Councilman Eric Gioia, who
visited the site yesterday but, in the sweltering heat, could only manage to
keep his blazer on while speaking in front of news cameras.

Mr. Gioia said, "I hope the city and the insurers move quickly on this so the
rebuilding can start, because a delay could really harm this neighborhood."

Prabir Mitra, 55, an Indian immigrant who owned the Dunkin' Donuts in the middle
of the block, stared at the burnt-out stretch of former businesses.

"It's one thing to destroy stores, they can be rebuilt, but this was a beautiful
mix of people," he said. "Look, you had Korean, Indian, Irish, Spanish, Chinese:
This is the way New York is now."

"Sure, I have insurance, so it's just a small hole in my pocket," he said. "It's
not going to kill me, but it might destroy the ethnic mix. I'm afraid they're
going to bulldoze it and raise the rent."

If that happens, said Luke Adams, executive director of the Sunnyside Chamber of
Commerce, there is a good chance the site could be rented to a big-box or
drugstore franchise, which he said would damage the fabric of the community.

"These merchants all supported the neighborhood," he said. "It's not like the
big chains, which don't care about the community. If we lose the block, we lose
a lot."

Kiho Nam, 41, of Sunnyside, looked forlornly at the corner grocery he opened
three years ago, Nam's Sun Market. The tin ceiling lay crumpled on the floor,
along with charred timbers and soggy ash.

"This is our only business. We have nothing else," he said. "I don't know what
we get from insurance, or when they pay. I'm sorry, I don't speak much English.
They don't tell us anything yet."

His fruit, displayed on outdoor sidewalk displays, seemed like the only thing on
the block yesterday untouched by the fire.

He and his wife went to buy a pizza and then they walked home in silence.

Queens Boulevard in Sunnyside is lined with shops, places to eat and bars that
hold a mirror to the community's ethnic and cultural diversity. There are older
German, Irish, and Czech businesses and the more recently established Indian,
Latino, and Korean ones.

Yesterday the smell of burnt lumber pervaded the neighborhood for blocks, and so
did the confusion and frustration among merchants who hoped their insurers and
the city could help them regenerate their businesses.

The owners of those businesses stared at ash heaps, stores gutted by flames and
turned into charred timber, and heaps of molten tar from the collapsed roof.

The largest business on the block, a popular Irish bar and restaurant called
Blooms Public House, was known for its wide variety of tap beers and whiskeys,
and live bands and readings.

Andrew Breslin, a co-owner, said that renovations in the past several years had
cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, including installation of expensive
antiques and ornate woodwork.

Yesterday, Blooms was in ruins, and Mr. Breslin stared at the smashed-in front
window where an antique banjo and a Irish drum lay covered in broken glass and
soot.

As for initial reports that the fire started in Blooms's kitchen, Mr. Breslin
said, "It's terrible however it started, but our guys said it did not start in
our place."

A Fire Department spokesman said yesterday, "The origin is still being
investigated, but it is not considered suspicious at this time."

Also in ashes was The Butcher Block, which sold Irish sausages, tea and other
products.

"I'm from Long Beach, and I know people there who come all the way to shop
there," said John Noonan, a representative for Budweiser who handles bars in
Sunnyside. He was sitting in a nearby Irish bar, The Courtyard.

The bartender there hung up the phone and said, "That was a girl who worked at
Blooms. She said 80 people lost jobs because of this."

Much of the dry cleaning still hung undamaged on the movable racks at Wu's
Cleaners, but the rest of the store was in shambles. A local man peered in the
doorway.

"Who are you?" demanded a Fire Department official.

"I got a pair of pants in there," the man said.

"Not anymore," the official said and moved the man back.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Business owners and fire officials yesterday inspected buildings
on Queens Boulevard in Sunnyside that were destroyed in Thursday's fire. (Photo
by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 25, 2003 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Old ID Card Gives New Status to Mexicans in U.S.

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1632 words

DATELINE: INDIANAPOLIS


For nearly a decade, Reynaldo Montes De Oca Suarez strived to be invisible. He
melted in and out of crowds, ducking police officers and city officials. He
flourished in the bustling anonymity of restaurant kitchens here, building a
life as a cook amid the clattering plates and spitting frying pans.

But in recent months, Mr. Montes de Oca and other undocumented immigrants from
Mexico have begun stepping out of the shadows. This summer, Indianapolis and
seven other Midwestern cities started accepting an identity card issued by the
Mexican government, offering Mexicans who are here illegally a startlingly new
sense of legitimacy.

In East Chicago, Ind., immigrants with the Mexican identification card, known as
the matricula consular, can now borrow library books and arrange city water
services. In Cincinnati, police officers accept the card from crime victims,
witnesses and suspects.

In Indianapolis, immigrants carrying the matricula card can apply for building
licenses and permits to drive taxis and operate vending carts.

The card has been issued by the Mexican government for more than 100 years to
keep track of its citizens in the United States. But across this country cities
and states are increasingly recognizing the card, too, as officials seek ways to
identify residents in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001,
and try to better serve immigrants.

Many bankers, merchants and politicians have also embraced the card, whose name
translates to consular registration, hoping to appeal to the growing number of
Hispanic consumers and voters.

The shift has been accompanied by a rising outcry, particularly among some
Republicans in Congress, who argue that the widening acceptance of the card is
creating a de facto amnesty for illegal immigrants.

In March 2002, only a handful of cities and banks recognized the matricula card,
Mexican officials say. Today, more than 100 cities, 900 police departments, 100
financial institutions and 13 states, including Indiana, New Mexico and Utah,
accept the cards, which carry the bearer's photo, name and address and are
issued by Mexican consulates to Mexicans regardless of their immigration status.

Emboldened by the changing climate, Mr. Montes de Oca recently carried his card
into the red brick offices of National City Bank, which started wooing
undocumented immigrants with matricula cards last year.

Within minutes, he had his first checking account and debit card.

"It makes me feel good to see the matricula accepted in so many places," said
Mr. Montes de Oca, 29, who was rejected when he tried to open a bank account
last year because he lacked a Social Security number. "This makes me feel
welcome."

Illegal immigrants who carry the matricula card still risk deportation and are
still barred from working by federal law. They cannot use the card to register
to vote, change their immigration status or to obtain Social Security numbers or
work permits. But they often live more freely in cities that recognize the card.
And in several states, possession of a matricula card is the first step toward a
driver's license.

Officials at the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Homeland
Security say this is worrisome because they believe the card is vulnerable to
fraud and misuse by criminals and terrorists, a contention that Mexican and some
American officials dispute.

In July, the House approved a measure that would authorize the State Department
to regulate all consular identification cards issued by Mexico and other
countries, requiring such countries to supply the names and addresses of
everyone issued a card, among other things. That same month, four Republicans in
Congress wrote to the Department of Homeland Security to express their concern
about the proliferation of the matricula card. They said they feared other
countries might issue similar cards.

"Any federal government acceptance of unreliable identification cards from
persons resident in the United States compromises our homeland security," wrote
the four Republicans, including F. James Sensenbrenner Jr. of Wisconsin,
chairman of the House Judiciary Committee.

The Bush administration and Congress remain deeply divided over the issue, with
some moderate Republicans and some officials from the State and Treasury
Departments offering support for the Mexican card.

Senator Richard G. Lugar,Republican of Indiana and chairman of the Foreign
Relations Committee, has defended the matricula card.

"These cards pose no risk to our antiterrorism efforts," Mr. Lugar said in June.
"In fact, cards that simplify identification of immigrants and facilitate their
contact with Americans and our institutions are a benefit to public safety, not
a liability."

Also in June, the Treasury Department issued regulations that gave banks the
option of accepting the matricula card as identification, but the department
agreed to reconsider after Mr. Sensenbrenner and other Republicans objected. A
final decision on the matter is expected soon.

The White House has yet to take a formal position. And while federal officials
debate, cities are changing their policies one by one.

In June, the mayors of the Indiana cities Fort Wayne, East Chicago, Columbus and
Indianapolis announced they would accept the matricula card. In July the State
of Indiana and the cities of Madison, Ind., and Cleveland and Columbus in Ohio
recognized it.

This month, Cincinnati followed suit. Officials say the move would be a boon to
local economies, encouraging Mexican immigrants to pour money into banks and
businesses. They also say immigrants with bank accounts will be less vulnerable
to criminals who prey on people who carry cash or keep money at home.

Some places have chosen to buck this trend. This year, Colorado barred the use
of the matricula card, citing concerns about its reliability. Last year, New
York City Police Department officials said they had declined to accept the card,
and officials in New Jersey and Connecticut expressed similar reluctance.

But Gov. Frank L. O'Bannon of Indiana said he remained convinced that the cards
were secure. Governor O'Bannon said they provided what many officials need in
the post-Sept. 11 era: a reliable means of identifying people who might
otherwise be unidentifiable.

Albert G. Huntington, the mayor of Madison, Ind., agreed. Mr. Huntington said he
could not ignore the needs of the Mexican workers who were increasingly filling
jobs in his small town. Recognition of the matricula card, he said, was simply a
reflection of the demographic changes rippling across the Midwest.

"They're coming, one way or another," said Mr. Huntington, who has decided to
offer city services to Mexican immigrants in his town of 12,500 people. "So you
have a choice. You can recognize them or you can ignore them and allow problems
to develop."

Mexico began distributing the matricula consular in the 1870's as a means of
identifying and registering its citizens in the United States, officials say.

For more than a century, the card was used to ensure that Mexican immigrants
could receive consular assistance in dealing with American employers and police
and help in shipping belongings home or relatives back for burial. The card was
not typically used for dealing with American authorities.

That changed after Sept. 11, 2001, as possession of a photo ID became a
prerequisite for entering many office buildings and hospitals, for buying train
tickets and wiring money and as states began considering barring illegal
immigrants from obtaining driver's licenses.

Talks between the United States and Mexico about an amnesty for the estimated
four million Mexican illegal immigrants living here stalled. And Mexican
diplomats began lobbying for acceptance of the matricula card.

These days, the Mexican consul here, Sergio Aguilera, drives from city to city,
making his pitch. This week, he shuttled between East Chicago, where he met with
the mayor, and Indianapolis, where he tried to persuade credit union executives
to join the businesses that accept the card.

"In this past it was not so important," Mr. Aguilera said. "Now we have
increased our efforts. I have been traveling like crazy, talking to mayors,
police departments and city councils. We need their understanding and their
support."

Applicants for the card must apply in person at their local consulate and
provide supporting documents like birth certificates, Mexican passports and
voting cards. In March 2002, the Mexican government introduced an advanced
matricula card with security features, including invisible coding that can be
read only with special detectors.

The F.B.I. estimates, however, that more than 90 percent of matricula cards
belong to an earlier generation that lacks such security features. Even the
newer card can be forged, officials say, along with the supporting documents.
The F.B.I. also warned that Mexico's outdated databases allowed multiple cards
to be issued with the same name, address and photograph.

Mexican officials counter that the older cards are being phased out as people
renew their cards. They say their computer databases will soon be updated and
that additional security features are in the works.

The officials also note that criminals successfully counterfeit most
identification cards, including American driver's licenses, Social Security
cards and green cards. They say the benefits of the matricula card are clear to
police officers, businesses and immigrants who can already feel the difference.

Ricardo Mondragon, a 41-year-old cook, presented his matricula card at a store
here two weeks ago as he bought sneakers with his debit card. He said he
marveled when the cashier accepted the card without a second glance.

"All of us, we try to get the card," Mr. Mondragon said. "It really helps a
lot."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michel Trahyn handing out identification cards to immigrants
outside the Mexican consulate in Indianapolis. (Photo by Tom Strattman for The
New York Times)(pg. A1); Luis Parodi, left, of National City Bank in
Indianapolis helping Reynaldo Montes De Oca Suarez, a Mexican immigrant, conduct
a transaction.; Sergio Aguilera, the Mexican consul in Indianapolis, encourages
acceptance of the matricula card.; A matricula consular, in a photograph altered
to obscure some personal information. Increasingly, cities and states are
recognizing the card, issued by Mexico, to identify residents and to better
serve immigrants. (Photographs by Tom Strattman for The New York Times)(pg. A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 28, 2003 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Schwarzenegger Is Pressed for His Views on Social Issues

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 924 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 27


Facing aggressive questioning, Arnold Schwarzenegger, the
actor-turned-candidate-for-governor, found himself having to lay out his
positions today on a range of contentious social issues that he had so far
avoided in the hectic California recall election.

Mr. Schwarzenegger, a Republican who is trying to rally all factions of his
party around him, was pushed by conservative radio interviewers to define
himself on matters he had so far sidestepped in his nascent campaign to take the
place of Gov. Gray Davis.

Hit with a barrage of tough questions by Sean Hannity, the radio and television
commentator, Mr. Schwarzenegger spelled out his support for abortion rights and
said he favored the legalization of marijuana for medicinal purposes.

But he voiced more conservative positions on other issues, opposing gay
marriages and the granting of drivers' licenses to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Schwarzenegger was a call-in guest on Mr. Hannity's syndicated radio show,
which was also broadcast live on the Fox network.

Later on another call-in show, Mr. Schwarzenegger, who starred in a number of
blood-drenched action films, said he supported a ban on assault weapons and
endorsed the 1994 Brady bill, one of the toughest gun-control measures ever
passed by Congress.

He told Larry Elder, a syndicated talk radio host, "I support the Second
Amendment that people have the right to have arms." But he also said that he
supported the Brady bill, which required a five-day waiting period for buying
handguns, and that he wanted to close loopholes about purchases at gun shows. He
added, "Sometimes under certain circumstances we should have trigger locks on
our guns."

Mr. Schwarzenegger has been running a carefully controlled campaign, dribbling
out appearances and doing much of his campaigning on talk radio.

Mr. Schwarzenegger's camp said today that the tenor of the interviews was
unexpected, but that the interviews showed that the actor, who has never run for
public office, was candid and could handle unscripted events.

"He did a great job," said George Gorton, Mr. Schwarzenegger's chief strategist,
who said of Mr. Hannity: "He didn't tell us he was going to hit Arnold with a
barrage. But Hannity kept throwing hardballs, and Arnold hit them out of the
park."

California voters go to the polls on Oct. 7 to decide whether to recall Governor
Davis, a Democrat, and to pick a replacement if the recall succeeds. Mr.
Schwarzenegger is the best known of 135 candidates on the replacement ballot.

Some of Mr. Schwarzenegger's responses to the questioning today, like his
support for prayer in school, denying illegal aliens driving privileges and his
opposition to gay marriage, are sure to solidify his standing in conservative
circles.

Many social conservatives in California have expressed misgivings about Mr.
Schwarzenegger's more moderate views, particularly on abortion and gay rights.
Many are supporting State Senator Tom McClintock, who has portrayed himself as
the only true conservative in the race.

In Sacramento today, 20 of the 32 Republican members of the State Assembly
announced their support for Mr. Schwarzenegger. The group includes a number of
outspoken conservatives, but also a handful of moderates.

Assemblyman Keith Richman, the assistant minority leader who describes himself
as moderate, said that many of the Republican officials who voiced their support
for Mr. Schwarzenegger today disagree with him on a number of social issues.

"Clearly Arnold has support across the political spectrum in the Republican
Party," Mr. Richman said. "It's not that we agree on 100 percent of the issues,
but we agree that philosophically Arnold is a Republican and that he can help
turn California around."

In today's radio broadcasts, Mr. Schwarzenegger staked out some middle ground on
social issues, taking positions that might alienate conservatives in his party
but that match the views of a majority of Californians.

He said he supports a state law that legalizes the medical use of marijuana,
popular among Californians but rendered illegal by the United States Supreme
Court.

He did not take a position on Proposition 54, an initiative that would bar the
state from collecting racial data. The initiative measure will appear on the
same special election ballot as the recall.

Mr. Schwarzenegger said today that while he opposed granting legal recognition
to gay marriages, "I do support domestic partnerships" that provide some legal
and financial protections to gay men and lesbians.

Mr. Schwarzenegger said he was in favor of parental notification when a minor
seeks an abortion, with exceptions. "In some cases," he said, "when there is
abuse in the family or problems in the family, then the courts should decide."

John Stoos, the deputy campaign director for Mr. McClintock, said Mr.
Schwarzenegger was trying to appeal to moderates and liberals while maintaining
support on the right. He predicted the strategy would fail.

"The Arnold camp looks like it doesn't know which direction to go," Mr. Stoos
said. "If he says he's a fiscal conservative and a social liberal and thinks
it's going to appeal to the right, then he doesn't know California politics."

In San Francisco, Governor Davis took his campaign to the floor of the Pacific
Stock Exchange, where he was asked by a reporter whether Mr. Schwarzenegger
would make a good governor. Mr. Davis said, "He meets the minimal
qualifications." He added: "He exceeds the voting age, and he is a resident of
California. Sometimes people want a little more. Like a little experience."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

2 Gatherings Reflect U.S. Muslims' Divide

BYLINE:  AP

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Aug. 30


More than 50,000 American Muslims are gathering in Chicago this weekend, but not
all will be attending the same meeting.

Black Muslims and immigrant Muslims are holding separate conventions three miles
apart, underscoring a divide that leaders have been struggling to bridge for
years.

The split is a significant, highly sensitive issue. Islam teaches unity among
all believers, and blacks represent about one-third of the nation's observant
Muslims.

Leaders on both sides say they can ill afford a rift as the war on terrorism
enters its third year. American Muslims have been striving to present a positive
image of their religion and protect their civil rights under scrutiny by law
enforcement.

"We're different culturally and we're different ethnically, and that creates
some difficulties in terms of communication and understanding," said Imam Earl
Abdulmalik Mohammed, a national representative of the black Muslim leader Imam
W. Deen Mohammed of the American Society of Muslims.

Sayyid M. Syeed, secretary general of the Islamic Society of North America --
which was founded by immigrants -- said the two groups enjoyed "total comfort
and cooperation" regardless of the separate conventions, which each has held for
years. Participants in the American Society of Muslims meeting will be
automatically registered at the Islamic Society gathering, Mr. Syeed said.
Leaders will speak at both assemblies, which started today.

But Imam Abdulmalik Mohammed said "it's a matter of concern" that no joint
events had been scheduled.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 3, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Islamic Cleric Gets Mixed Verdict In Indonesian Trial for Terrorism

BYLINE:  By RAYMOND BONNER

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

DATELINE: JAKARTA, Indonesia, Sept. 2


An Indonesian court this evening acquitted the radical Islamic cleric Abu Bakar
Bashir, widely identified as the spiritual leader of Al Qaeda's Southeast Asia
affiliate, of charges that he ordered a series of terrorist attacks in
Indonesia, and of plotting to assassinate the Indonesian president.

The court also said the prosecutors had not proved that Mr. Bashir was the head
of Jemaah Islamiyah. He was, however, found guilty of aiding and abetting
treason, apparently based on his support of the organization's goal to establish
an Islamic state. The court also found him guilty of minor immigration
violations.

Mr. Bashir, who turned 65 two weeks ago, was sentenced to four years and said he
would appeal; the prosecution, which under Indonesian law also has the right to
appeal, had asked for 15.

The verdict was a serious setback for the Bush administration, as well as
Australia and regional governments, which had a hard time advancing their view
to the Indonesian government that Mr. Bashir, who runs an Islamic boarding
school that preaches vitriol against the West and Jews, and Jemaah Islamiyah
were serious terrorist threats.

"It's obviously very disappointing," said a senior Western diplomat here.

Today's verdict will reinforce the view of many Indonesians, including senior
political leaders, that the United States has exaggerated the terrorism problem
here. The majority of Indonesians, who are moderate Muslims, view the campaign
against terrorism as a war on Islam, and the war in Iraq has fueled those views.

Courts here are not known for being independent, and several Indonesians --
analysts, and ordinary citizens -- voiced the opinion that the judges had acted
in accordance with what the Indonesian government wanted. The
government-appointed judges had also expressed concern about their safety if
they convicted Mr. Bashir on the terrorism charges.

Mr. Bashir has denied he engaged in terrorism, but he has expressed unabashed
admiration for Osama bin Laden. He accused the United States and other
"infidels" of pushing the Indonesian government to file the charges against him.

At the end of today's marathon session, he took the microphone, and warned his
supporters to be on guard for "American provocateurs."

The judges commended Mr. Bashir for his politeness during the trial, suggesting
that this, and his age, might have contributed to the lighter sentence.

It took the panel of five judges, including one woman, nearly seven hours to
read their decision, which included a recitation of evidence. Several men who
are on trial in connection with the Bali bombing testified against Mr. Bashir,
and suspected terrorists being held by Singapore in connection with a plot to
blow up the American Embassy there testified by a video linkup. Jemaah Islamiyah
has been linked by investigators to both of these plots.

By the time the judges had finished their summary and delivered their verdict,
they had sown considerable confusion among nearly everyone, from courtroom
spectators to Indonesian lawyers to diplomats.

"On the one hand, the judges acquit him on charges of being a mastermind of
terrorist acts, but on the other hand, they say that he was involved in
treason," said Adnan Buyung Nasution, a member of Mr. Bashir's legal team.

At one point, the judges -- who acted as jury -- said Mr. Bashir was not guilty
of treason, later that he was. They threw out the charge that contained the
allegations that he was responsible for a series of bombings of churches in
Indonesia in December 2000.

The American Embassy here declined to comment. Asked at today's State Department
briefing about the court's ruling, Richard A. Boucher, the department's
spokesman, noted that Mr. Bashir was convicted on three charges. He declined to
say whether the department was satisfied with the outcome. "At this point, it's
still an ongoing matter in front of the Indonesian courts," he said, noting the
possible appeals.

The Indonesian government long denied that Jemaah Islamiyah even existed.
Attitudes changed after the terrorist attacks in Bali last October that killed
more than 200 people.

Indonesian antiterrorism officials have criticized the United States for not
helping enough to prosecute Mr. Bashir. Much of the evidence came from Omar
al-Faruq, a senior Qaeda operative who was picked up here in June 2002, and
turned over to the C.I.A.

During interrogation, according to intelligence officials, Mr. Faruq said that
Mr. Bashir was the mastermind of a plot to blow up American embassies in
southeast Asia, including Singapore, and that he had provided men and materiel
from Jemaah Islamiyah for the bombings here in December 2000.

The Bush administration would not allow Indonesian authorities to interrogate
Mr. Faruq. They were allowed to submit questions, which the Americans then
asked.

Mr. Bashir, who has Yemeni ancestors, became active in Islamic politics in
Indonesia in the mid-1950's, when he was the leader of a moderate Islamic
student organization. A primary objective was the establishment of an Islamic
state, but through peaceful means.

In the early 1970's, Mr. Bashir was co-founder of an Islamic boarding school in
Ngruki, in central Java, which has been, and remains, a breeding ground for
radicals. Nearly all of the men who have been charged in connection with the
Bali bombing graduated from that school.

In the 1980's, the Indonesian dictator Suharto, who had used the Islamists
against the Communists, began to crack down on them. Mr. Bashir was sentenced to
nine years in prison for treason.

He fled to Malaysia, along with several others, including Riduan Isamuddin,
better known as Hambali, who was arrested by the C.I.A. last month in Thailand.
The two were among a very small community that lived quietly in a rural village.

It was during this time that Mr. Bashir appears to have made contact with Osama
bin Laden, according to Western intelligence agencies. Mr. Bashir and Hambali
spoke at mosques and in homes, raising money and encouraging young men to go off
to fight first against the Soviets in Afghanistan, and then to Qaeda training
camps.

In early 1990, there was a split within the movement to establish an Islamic
state in Southeast Asia. Mr. Bashir founded Jemaah Islamiyah, a military
organization, according to Western governments and an authoritative report on
Jemaah Islamiyah by Sidney Jones, an expert on the organization; her report was
released last week by the International Crisis Group.

Mr. Bashir eventually became the amir, according to witnesses in his trial, as
well as the report.

He returned to Indonesia in 1998, after Suharto was toppled. His base was the
Ngruki boarding school.

With a population of 220 million, Indonesia is the world's largest Islamic
country. But it is a secular state, and the overwhelming majority of Muslims are
moderate.

Political leaders had been reluctant to criticize Mr. Bashir, fearing that it
would appear to be a broad attack on faithful Muslims. Even after Western and
Asian governments linked him to terrorist activities, he was defended and even
feted by some top government leaders.

The Bali bombing changed attitudes, and Mr. Bashir was arrested a few weeks
later. Lately, however, political leaders have been noticeably reluctant to
mention Jemaah Islamiyah.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Islamic cleric Abu Bakar Bashir yesterday after his trial.
(Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)(pg. A1); Abu Bakar Bashir, at
microphone, asked shouting supporters in a Jakarta courtroom yesterday to be
calm. (Photo by Agence France-Presse/Getty Images)(pg. A6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 3, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Inspectors to Be Trained for Several Jobs

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW L. WALD

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 2


The Department of Homeland Security plans to train thousands of inspectors at
airports, seaports and highway border crossings so that each can conduct
immigration, customs and agriculture checks, functions now performed by three
different people, the department secretary said today.

The secretary, Tom Ridge, also said that 5,000 law enforcement officers who work
at immigration and customs would be trained to work as federal air marshals so
they could be shifted to airliner duty when the department believed that the
hijacking threat was high.

The cross-training will help the department respond better to intelligence tips,
Mr. Ridge said.

"You've got to be as adroit and flexible as the enemy," Mr. Ridge said in a
speech at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative think tank here.

He said he was trying to wring full advantage out of moving the various agencies
into a single department and rationalizing their work.

Some inspectors at Dulles International Airport outside Washington, Los Angeles
International, Kennedy International in New York and Houston Intercontinental
have already been trained in all three functions, said Gordon Johndroe, a
spokesman for the department. All inspectors will be retrained within a year.

The other cross-training, taking law enforcement officers from the Bureau of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and teaching them to operate in an airliner
cabin, will more than double the number of people available to work as air
marshals, people familiar with the program said. (The exact number of air
marshals is secret.) It was not clear what effect this would have on the number
of marshals on duty in airliner cabins at any given time.

"In the past, if we wanted to cover a certain array of flights, that potentially
could mean a federal air marshal would have to be moved from one flight he was
covering to another, leaving the original flight uncovered," Mr. Johndroe said.

But with a large and geographically diverse pool of federal officers to work in
cockpits, that problem will be solved, he said.

The marshals will be moved from the Transportation Security Administration to
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, both part of the Department of Homeland
Security.

Mr. Ridge said that establishment of the department also allowed for combining
the three border inspection services: immigration, customs and agriculture.
Sending travelers through a single inspector at the border instead of a sequence
of three will provide for better screening, he said. The first inspector will
evaluate travelers based on their "demeanor or actions," according to the
department, and refer them for more detailed screening if the traveler raises
suspicions.

"We will have the potential, based on threat information, based on need, to send
more people to secondary screening and have more people there to interrogate
them properly," Mr. Ridge said.

The department has also installed secure phone and video links to the emergency
operations centers of all 50 states, two territories and the District of
Columbia, Mr. Ridge said, which will allow for the prompt sharing of classified
information.

Mr. Ridge said he had invited every governor to name five state officials to
apply for security clearances so they could be given more information about
terrorist threats. He said he hoped that at some point information would flow in
the other direction, with the states providing help to the federal government.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chris DeMuth, left, of the American Enterprise Institute, as Tom
Ridge discussed security training yesterday. (Photo by Paul Hosefros/The New
York Times)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2003 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

FILM REVIEW;
Fresh Off the Boat From India And He's Yearning to Be Cool

BYLINE:  By DAVE KEHR

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg.
10

LENGTH: 509 words


"Where's the Party Yaar?" is a scruffy independent feature that carries on the
tradition of the immigrant comedy, a form born early in the last century when
waves of Jews, Italians, Irish and Germans arrived on these shores just as the
new medium of motion pictures was getting under way.

Back then these movies taught immigrants how to handle life in the strange new
country of America. (One brilliant example, though from the more dramatic side,
is Reginald Barker's "Italian" (1915), which was recently named to the National
Film Registry.) Now the point of view tends to be an already Americanized one,
and the recent arrivals -- invariably, if anachronistically, referred to as
F.O.B.'s, for "fresh off the boat" -- are figures of fun, absurdly tied to the
manners and customs of the old country.

Such a figure in "Where's the Party Yaar?," which opens today in Manhattan, New
Jersey, Los Angeles, Houston, Chicago and San Jose, Calif., is Hari Patel (Sunil
Malhotra), a gangly, geeky young Indian who has just arrived in Houston, where
he is to study computer science at a local college while living with an old
friend of his father's who immigrated many years before. The old friend, who
lives in a garish split-level in a Houston suburb, has a son Hari's age, Mohan
(Kal Penn), who was born in the United States and is as American as apple pie.
Mohan is a big man on campus and a popular party organizer, whose challenge is
to organize an end-of-the-year blowout for the cool Indian students without
letting his country-mouse house guest find out about it.

Hence the title, as Hari gets word of the big blast and asks around to find out
where it is being held. (Yaar, apparently, is the Hindi word for dude.)
Meanwhile, Mohan has fallen in love with Janvi (Serena Varghese), a happening
Indian-American woman who is making a documentary on the Indian experience.

"Where's the Party Yaar?" delves into a few areas, like differing standards in
personal hygiene, that the immigrant comedies of the past couldn't touch. But
for the most part it plays out in the old tradition: Hari learns how to comb his
hair and wear pants without suspenders, while Mohan learns that the old country
values of family solidarity and respect for one's elders still have some value.

The direction, by Benny Mathews, is often awkward and amateurish, and the sound
recording is occasionally so bad that dialogue is unintelligible. But this film
clearly understands its target audience of first-generation Indian-Americans and
has its pleasures to provide.

WHERE'S THE PARTY YAAR?

Directed by Benny Mathews; written by Sunil Thakkar, Mr. Mathews and Soham
Mehta; director of photography, Anthony Fennell; edited by Shimit Amin;
production designer, Randy Cole; produced by Mr. Thakkar; released by Music
Masala Films. At the U.A. Union Square 14, 13th Street at Broadway. Running
time: 110 minutes. This film is not rated.

WITH: Kal Penn (Mohan Bakshi), Sunil Malhotra (Harishkumar Patel), Prem Shah
(Ray), Serena Varghese (Janvi Valia) and Tina Cherian (Priya Varghese).

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Constitutional Anachronism

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 403 words


America is a nation of immigrants. Immigrants have shaped our politics and
diplomacy, run our government and defended us in wartime -- more than 700
recipients of the Medal of Honor have been immigrants. Yet no matter how great
their contributions or sacrifices, immigrants remain ineligible for the nation's
highest office because of a provision in the Constitution that bars naturalized
American citizens from becoming president. The provision has long since outlived
its usefulness, if it had any in the first place.

Orrin Hatch, a Senate Republican, and Vic Snyder, a House Democrat, are pushing
amendments to rid the Constitution of the requirement that "No Person except a
natural born Citizen . . . shall be eligible to the Office of President." The
stipulation does not appear to threaten the eligibility of citizens born abroad
of American parents but is aimed at foreign-born people who became Americans
after immigrating here. This encompasses an ever-expanding universe of more than
12 million Americans and includes two former secretaries of state, Henry
Kissinger and Madeleine Albright; two cabinet members, Elaine Chao and Mel
Martinez; and Michigan's governor, Jennifer Granholm. Mr. Hatch's amendment
would make anyone who has been a citizen for 20 years, and a resident for 14,
eligible for the presidency, while Mr. Snyder's would require a 35-year waiting
period.

Some historians are puzzled about what the Founding Fathers had in mind. No
similar restrictions were imposed on eligibility for other high offices. The
common explanation is that as custodians of a young and fragile nation, the
founders were determined to prevent a foreign power from insinuating someone
into the country and contriving to have him elected chief executive. As Mr.
Hatch observes, that threat has long since evaporated.

Congress often has trouble enough dealing with real threats, let alone remote
ones. Thus the Hatch and Snyder amendments face that greatest of legislative
enemies: inertia. Amending the Constitution is also a cumbersome process,
requiring a two-thirds' vote in the House and Senate and the approval of
three-fourths of the states. At issue here, however, is the fact that the
Constitution creates, at least in regard to eligibility for the nation's highest
office, a level of second-class citizenship wholly inconsistent with American
values. This is a lingering wrong that needs to be set right.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 6, 2003 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Little but Language in Common;
Mexicans and Puerto Ricans Quarrel in East Harlem

BYLINE:  By ALAN FEUER

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1050 words


In Spanish, "No me gusta" means "I don't like." If you are Mexican or Puerto
Rican, the phrase is the same.

"I don't like the Mexicans," said George Ortiz, 52, who was born in Puerto Rico.
"They think they can live in the neighborhood and not obey the laws."

"I don't like the Puerto Ricans," said Javier Morales, 31, who moved north
recently from Mexico. "They forgot where they came from after they started
living in New York."

They call East Harlem El Barrio -- the neighborhood -- but it is not so
neighborly these days. In the last 10 years, Mexican immigrants have been
arriving in a huge influx to the crowded streets of what has long been a Puerto
Rican enclave. While the two groups share a language, a common tongue does not
ensure a common bond. As far as ethnic rivalries go, the friction between the
Mexicans and the Puerto Ricans of El Barrio is hardly open war, but it can be
felt in the angry looks, muttered slurs and numerous complaints that are heard
on East 116th Street, the neighborhood's main road.

The Puerto Ricans accuse the Mexicans of stealing jobs and cheating the tax man,
and staying in the city as illegal immigrants. The Mexicans, in turn, accuse the
Puerto Ricans of crowding them out of apartments, businesses and parks.

The two groups are in a classic immigrant struggle over bragging rights, real
estate and money. It seems they will even grumble about a sports field. Last
week, for instance, Mr. Ortiz, a building superintendent, was playing softball
with friends on a baseball diamond in Thomas Jefferson Park, near the East
River. The field was old, sad, dirty, filled with weeds.

Meanwhile, not a hundred yards away, Mr. Morales, who works for a construction
firm, was playing soccer in the same park with his friends. The soccer field was
brand new, clean and well maintained.

While some may see the discrepancy between the fields as a fluke, a matter of
construction schedules, or even evidence that city money is tight in trying
budgetary times, others see it as an indication that the neighborhood has
changed.

"They spent all that money fixing up the soccer field, and Puerto Ricans don't
even play soccer," Mr. Ortiz said. "That field was built for all the Mexicans in
town."

There are now about 200,000 Mexicans in New York City, according to the 2000
census, making them the city's third-largest Hispanic group after Puerto Ricans
and Dominicans. The Mexican population has nearly tripled in size since the
early 1980's. Most have come from the Mixteca region of Mexico, which includes
the states of Puebla, Guerrero and Oaxaca. They were pushed from home by natural
disasters and financial crises and drawn to New York City by the opportunity for
work.

At the same time, the city's Puerto Rican population, nearly 800,000, according
to the last census, has declined by more than 10 percent since 1990.

The man responsible for managing this change is Philip Reed, the city councilman
for District 8, which covers much of eastern Harlem.

On a Tuesday, Mr. Reed might take a call from a Mexican vendor complaining he
was chased off the streets by a Puerto Rican shopkeeper. On a Wednesday, he
might take another call from an angry Puerto Rican who has heard a rumor that
116th Street -- also known as Luis Munoz Marin Boulevard, for Puerto Rico's
first elected governor -- was going to be changed to a Mexican politician's
name.

"It's a thicket," Mr. Reed explained.

The thicket is perhaps thorniest on 116th Street between Second and Third
Avenues, where Mexican tacquerias now stand side by side with Puerto Rican
cuchifrito shops. Walking the block one hears salsa and merengue intermixed with
mariachi. Puerto Rican guayaberas are sold next door to Mexican futbol jerseys.
On the corner, a travel agency advertises trips to San Juan, P.R. Down the
block, another promotes Mexican excursions to Cancun.

So far, the Mexicans have not been able to transform their growing numbers into
political clout, although they are slowly waking to the notion that to solidify
their status, they will need Mexican politicians and police officers.

"Right now, they're not involved in the formal structure of the city in any
way," said George Reagan, director of programs for Asociacion Tepeyac de New
York, which works with the Mexican population. "They want to have political
power. They want to have a real say in their schools. But they're just getting
here. It takes time."

Still, the Mexicans may not have time. El Barrio is gentrifying rapidly as
wealthy whites and Asians are moving in, attracted by inexpensive rents. While
many Puerto Ricans with family roots in the neighborhood have started moving
back, the Mexicans -- often illegal, poor and unaware of tenant rights -- are
starting to be shut out, even as they arrive.

"They're being priced out as gentrification occurs," Mr. Reagan said. "Because
so many are undocumented and because they just don't understand the system that
exists, it's very easy for a landlord to simply say, 'Get out.' "

Complicating matters even more is a schism that has developed between Mexicans
who are established in the neighborhood and those who have only recently
arrived.

This summer, for example, tensions worsened when several Mexican restaurants
complained to the police about a group of Mexican women selling tacos and
empanadas on the sidewalks in front of their doors. The women, they said, were
stealing customers. The women, in turn, have said that selling street food is
the only way they can survive.

"Many of the businesses allow these women to use a piece of their property,"
said Flor Bermudez, a staff lawyer for Esperanza del Barrio, which is
representing the vendors in their dealings with the courts.

"Many of the more established Mexican businesses started off as street vendors.
So I think they have a certain amount of sympathy for what they're going
through."

Sympathy, perhaps, say the restaurateurs. But patience, no.

"I can understand these women need to make a living," one proprietor said. "But
I pay taxes. They don't pay taxes. I'm here legally, and they are not."

He asked that his name be withheld, wanting to avoid upsetting fellow immigrants
from home. "It's hard enough to be here with the problems we already have,
mainly from Puerto Ricans," he said. "We don't need more from picking on our
own."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a music store's display, the flag of Puerto Rico can be seen
on drums.; Mexican stores along East 116th Street. Until recently, East Harlem
was an area overwhelmingly Puerto Rican in population. (Photographs by Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B1); A new soccer field in Thomas Jefferson
Park could be a signal of change in East Harlem, where a nearby baseball diamond
is filled with weeds. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 7, 2003 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Many Chinese, America's Allure Is Fading

BYLINE:  By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1130 words

DATELINE: CHANGLE, China


His older brother was the pioneer, more than a decade ago. His son followed
three years ago. As recently as last year, his daughter planned to join this
exodus of thousands from Fujian Province who have gambled that the life of a
smuggled immigrant in America would eclipse that of an impoverished native in
China.

But she lost interest after her brother's experience.

"Life is much more difficult than he expected, so I regret sending him to
America," said the father, Mr. Wang, who -- like some others interviewed for
this article -- spoke on the condition that only his surname be used. "He is
miserable. He says to me, 'Why am I working so hard in America? I can get rich
at home.' It's very different from the way it used to be."

Ten years ago this summer, human smuggling exploded into international
consciousness when the Golden Venture, a decrepit freighter stuffed with 286
Chinese, most from the Changle area in southern China, ran aground off Queens,
New York. Ten people died in the cold and pounding surf, and soon, the name
Golden Venture became shorthand for a cruel world of exploitation of desperate
people.

Today, the smuggling trade continues, though perhaps at a slower clip, people
here say, costing $60,000 per head. But for the first time, many Fujianese feel
less urgency about venturing abroad.

They have more options at home, with jobs available in small businesses, steel
factories or construction sites. It is far more convenient and less troublesome,
some people say, to make small money in the comfort of familiar surroundings,
instead of relatively big money in the clutches of a lonely and inhospitable
land.

Some smuggled Chinese are even leaving America as soon as they pay their debts,
and without gaining permanent residency, because they want a less stressful life
at home.

"America is no paradise," said one man surnamed Zheng, who returned to the
village of Shengmei a few years ago. He described a seven-year odyssey that
started in New York but took him to many other places. "It was the same routine
every day for six or seven years," he droned. "Get up. Work for 16 hours. Go to
bed. Get up again. I was a fool. A machine."

America is still in people's thoughts here. Of dozens of people interviewed in
half a dozen villages around Changle, nearly everyone claimed to have at least
one relative overseas, most in New York.

In small fishing villages like Houyu, where jobs are scarce, the urge to leave
remains strong.

But in many places, that desire is now muted by considerations such as
economics, family and safety. Some people attribute their reluctance to tighter
security in China and America after the Sept. 11 attacks.

"The Golden Venture has defined the discourse for years, and people still have
the same ideas about Chinese and smuggling," said Peter Kwong, director of the
Asian-American studies program at Hunter College. But things have changed, he
said, adding, "The economic incentive is no longer absolute."

The woman accused of being the chief smuggler, or "snakehead," behind the Golden
Venture, Cheng Chui Ping, is on trial in New York. The lawyer who represented
many of the immigrants, Robert E. Porges, is in jail, after admitting that he
helped many of them concoct false stories of persecution to bolster their asylum
cases. The ship itself is being used as an artificial reef about a mile off the
coast of Boca Raton, Fla.

Changle, a county of about 650,000 people, has changed, too. Several years ago,
the county seat, also named Changle, was a dusty, lethargic town with bleak
prospects, said Mr. Kwong, who collaborated on a documentary film about
Fujianese emigrants in the mid-1990's. Now, it is a bustling city crowned by new
high-rise apartments, stylish new stores and a new boulevard, North Shiyang
Street.

Changle is full of people, like Zhou Xueqing, whose attitudes toward emigration
have changed. More than a decade ago, her husband went to New York to work as a
cook, and he sends home a few hundred dollars a month. But he is depressed, and
his health is deteriorating.

His hard life deterred their son from going to America. He went to Shanghai
instead. He now runs a mobile phone business and earns $12,000 a year, a good
income there.

"The average person doesn't want to be smuggled into America anymore," said Ms.
Zhou, who works at a new bedding store. "The economy is so terrible there."

That view can also be heard on the busy streets of Jinfeng, another longtime
starting point for illegal emigration. At her family's fashionable Wei Wei
wedding store, Chen Meicun described a conundrum of yearning and conflict, risk
and reward.

Ms. Chen, 21, said she once thought of joining her brother, who left 10 years
ago for Peru. But she is loath to give up her job and the comforts of an
upwardly mobile life.

"It's dangerous to go -- look at what happened in England," she said, referring
the deaths three years ago of 58 Chinese who were being smuggled in the back of
a truck. "Every country has its good and its bad, so why should I leave?"

In village after village, people outlined the same choices. If they got a good
job here, they would stay. If not, they would try to borrow enough money to
leave. Not one person talked about politics or human rights here, or China's
one-child policy. The issue was money.

In a small store in Tingjiang, across the Min River in Lianjiang County,
questions about smuggling people into America prompted a lively discussion.

The owner, a 28-year-old woman surnamed Lin, said she wanted her only child, a
4-year-old boy, to study hard and get a job close to home. She could not bear
the thought of him going to America. "Everyday life here is not too bad," she
said. "Our country is developing very quickly."

One customer, playing cards with some underemployed friends under a creaky
ceiling fan, disagreed. "Not everyone can afford to go, but everyone wants to
go," he said.

The nearby town of Shengmei is the hometown of Ms. Cheng, the alleged Golden
Venture mastermind, and she is revered there as a benevolent patron.

But it is also the home of Mr. Zheng -- the man who called himself a fool for
having gone to America. Mr. Zheng, 50, who holds a degree in marine biology from
Xiamen University, said he had a miserable existence overseas. Though he was
able to send home about $2,000 a year, he said he never laughed or smiled when
he was in America.

His life now is not carefree. He has found only sporadic work, mainly in
construction. But at least he can have tea with his friends, go for leisurely
strolls and watch his son mature, day by day.

"You don't have to climb too high up the mountain -- just climb to a place in
the middle that's more suitable," he said. "If you make a lot of money but don't
have the time to enjoy it, what's the point? Money isn't everything."

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Changle, which used to be a sleepy town, apartment buildings
now line bustling North Shiyang Street. (Photo by David W. Chen/The New York
Times) Map of China highlighting Changle: Job opportunities are growing in
Changle, a once-poor county seat.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 16, 2003 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

THREATS AND RESPONSES: A MICHIGAN CASE;
U.S. Deports Charity Leader In Visa Dispute

BYLINE:  By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 441 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 15


The founder of a Muslim charity accused of funneling money to Al Qaeda has been
deported, Justice Department officials said today. His lawyer said he was
returned to Lebanon late last night.

The man, Rabih Haddad, 41, was the chairman of the Global Relief Foundation, a
charity based in Bridgeview, Ill. The government froze the assets of the charity
on Dec. 14, 2001, saying it was a financial pipeline to terrorists.

Mr. Haddad, a Lebanese citizen who had lived in Ann Arbor, Mich., was arrested
that day for overstaying his tourist visa. He was detained for a year and a
half, and his case created a furor because he was well-known among Muslims and
because the Justice Department initially barred the public from his immigration
hearings.

Representative John Conyers Jr., Democrat of Michigan, and several newspapers
sued the government and won a court order requiring the government to open the
hearings. Mr. Conyers and others called for Mr. Haddad's release, saying he was
being unfairly targeted because he was a Muslim cleric.

"The fact is he has nothing to do with terrorism, nothing to do with Sept. 11,"
Mr. Conyers said today.

Jorge Martinez, a spokesman for the Justice Department, said Mr. Haddad had been
deported, but declined to comment further.

Mr. Haddad was never charged with a terrorism-related crime. But in November
2002, an immigration judge ruled that he and his wife and three children should
be deported, describing him as a threat to national security. Mr. Haddad's
lawyer, Ashraf Nubani, said he was deported to Lebanon late last night, four
days after an appellate court declined to review his deportation order.

Mr. Haddad, who had unsuccessfully applied for political asylum in the United
States last year, was taken into custody by the authorities in Lebanon when he
arrived there today, Mr. Nubani said. His family still lives in Ann Arbor, but
also faces outstanding deportation orders.

"The government never established, other than with smoke screens and innuendo,
that he was linked to terrorism," Mr. Nubani said.

The government said Mr. Haddad had been seen in places affiliated with the Qaeda
terrorist network. It noted that federal agents confiscated a shotgun and stacks
of cash from his apartment when he was arrested.

Mr. Nubani said his client traveled, mostly to Pakistan, to take part in relief
efforts. Mr. Haddad said the shotgun was for hunting birds. As for the cash, Mr.
Haddad said he received an income from donations from mosques and Islamic
centers and also received money from his wife's family.

Prosecutors said they were keeping some evidence secret to protect terrorism
investigations.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabih Haddad has been returned to Lebanon, his lawyer said.
(Associated Press)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 353 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2003 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

National Briefing Washington: Board Rules For Detainees

BYLINE:  By Rachel Swarns (NYT)

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 111 words


Ruling against the government, the nation's immigration appeals board ruled for
three Haitians who were detained after their boat ran aground last year near
Miami.

The board upheld a judge's decision to grant asylum to one Haitian, Gabriel
Joseph, 53, who was released last week. The board granted a new asylum hearing
for Mr. Joseph's nephews, David and Daniel, who were denied asylum a few months
ago. Acting earlier this year in David Joseph's case, Attorney General John
Ashcroft directed that asylum seekers could be detained on national security
grounds while their cases were being considered, even if they had no links to
terrorism.   Rachel Swarns (NYT)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company
