
                               1 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

Gingrich Aims to Turn Immigration Issue on Foes

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 612 words



HIGHLIGHT: Gingrich warns his opponents that attacking him on immigration may
hurt them.


HILTON HEAD ISLAND, S.C. -- Newt Gingrich sought to turn the fractious issue of
illegal immigration from an Achilles heel of his campaign into a spear aimed at
opponents. He attacked both the Obama administration for failing to control the
Mexican border, then pivoted in an interview to warn his Republican rivals Mitt
Romney and Michele Bachmann that they would pay a price for distorting his
position.

Campaigning in South Carolina, Mr. Gingrich assailed the Obama Justice
Department for filing a lawsuit against the state's new immigration law that
would require police to check the legal status of people they stop.

"Instead of coming down here and having him apologize for the absolute failure
of the federal government'' to stop illegal immigration at the border, Mr.
Gingrich said Monday evening, "the Obama administration filed a lawsuit against
the state.''

Reading off a list of 16 Latin American and Caribbean countries that have filed
friend of the court briefs, Mr. Gingrich questioned whose side Mr. Obama was on.
"No American president has the right to side with foreigners,'' he said at a
town hall-style event at the College of Charleston.
The foreign countries believe that the new law, which goes into effect Jan. 1,
would lead to racial profiling of their citizens.The Justice Department has said
the law, like those in Alabama and Arizona, undermines the federal government's
role.

Last week Mr. Gingrich's call for "humane" immigration policies lead Republican
presidential rivals to sharply attack him. It has exposed his vulnerability on
an issue of great visceral power with many voters. Asked about his policies, as
he invariably is at campaign stops, he says he would unceremoniously deport
recent illegal immigrants. But for those who have been in the country 25 years
and put down family and community roots, he favors a system of legal status,
which he says is not "amnesty" because it does include voting rights or
citizenship.

Asked how many of the estimated 11 to 12 million illegal immigrants now in the
country would be eligible for this status, Mr. Gingrich is imprecise. "I think
the number that will effect is relatively small, but it is not non-existent,''
he said Monday.

Both Mr. Romney and Mrs. Bachmann have accused him of favoring a form of amnesty
that will serve as a magnet to more illegal immigrants.

Mrs. Bachmann told Fox News last week, "He's saying that all people who are here
as illegal workers would be given that status, that's over 11 million people who
are here.'' Mr. Romney used the word "amnesty" repeatedly in attacking Mr.
Gingrich's position last week in Iowa, where the issue is playing a central role
in the shifting terrain leading up to the state's caucus on Jan. 3.

Mr. Gingrich, who plans to visit Iowa on Thursday, said on Tuesday after a
fund-raising event in Hilton Head that Mr. Romney's and Mrs. Bachmann's
criticism would backfire. "Candidates who decide to use things that are
factually false run a real risk of being repudiated by people because people are
sick of negatives and they're sick of politicians who can't be candid,'' he said
in the parking lot of the Crazy Crab restaurant.

"So I think they're both making a strategic mistake,'' he said.  "I"ll  be in
Iowa tomorrow night.  I'm going to deal with it very directly. These things are
not true. I don't mind debating anybody any time.  Lincoln said if you can't get
someone to agree that 2 plus 2 equals 4, you can't win the argument because
facts have no meaning. It is impossible to look at what I've said and conclude I
am for amnesty for 11 million people. And anyone who says I am is simply saying
something that is false.''

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               2 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trust but E-Verify

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 840 words


The Arizona immigration law was controversial from the beginning. Critics said
it was ripe for abuse, implicitly discriminatory and probably unconstitutional
as well. Business groups and liberal activists joined forces to oppose it.

But now that it's been implemented, it might just be a model for nationwide
reform.

No, I'm not talking about the Arizona law that empowers local police to check
the immigration status of anyone they detain, which generated a wave of boycotts
and a surfeit of Gestapo analogies last spring. I mean the 2007 Arizona law
requiring businesses to confirm their employees' legal status with the federal
E-Verify database, which was upheld last week in a 5-to-3 decision by the United
States Supreme Court.

The E-Verify law was never as polarizing as last year's police-powers
legislation, but it still attracted plenty of opposition. Arizona business
interests called it unfair and draconian. (An employer's business license is
suspended for the first offense and revoked for the second.) Civil liberties
groups argued that the E-Verify database's error rate is unacceptably high, and
that the law creates a presumptive bias against hiring Hispanics.

If these arguments sound familiar, it's because similar critiques are always
leveled against any attempt to actually enforce America's immigration laws. From
the border to the workplace, immigration enforcement is invariably depicted as
terribly harsh, hopelessly expensive and probably racist into the bargain.

Not to mention counterproductive: advocates for ''comprehensive'' reform, the
holy grail of liberal Democrats and moderate Republicans alike, have long
implied that it's essentially impossible to prevent illegal immigrants from
finding their way to eager employers. Instead, they argue, we have no choice but
to ratify the status quo -- i.e., mass low-skilled immigration from Mexico and
Central America -- by creating a vast new guest-worker program and offering
citizenship to illegal immigrants already here.

So far, though, Arizona's E-Verify law seems to be providing a strong
counterpoint to this counsel of despair. According to a recent study from the
nonpartisan Public Policy Institute of California, the legislation reduced
Arizona's population of working-age illegal immigrants by about 17 percent, or
roughly 92,000 people, in just a single year. (This effect was entirely distinct
from the Great Recession's broader impact on immigration, the study argues.) And
the swift attrition was mainly achieved through voluntary compliance: the number
of employers prosecuted under the law can be counted on one hand.

These results suggest that maybe -- just maybe -- America's immigration rate
isn't determined by forces beyond any lawmaker's control. Maybe public policy
can make a difference after all. Maybe we could have an immigration system that
looked as if it were designed on purpose, not embraced in a fit of absence of
mind.

At least in the short term, there's no good reason for such a system to include
any kind of amnesty. This was a dubious idea even during the last decade's
economic boom. It would be folly (and a political nonstarter) in this economic
climate, which has left Americans without high school diplomas (who tend to lose
out from low-skilled immigration) facing a 15 percent unemployment rate.

But eschewing amnesty doesn't require shutting down immigration. Quite the
opposite: With increased enforcement (to date, only a few states have
Arizona-style E-Verify laws on the books, though the Obama White House seems to
be stepping up prosecutions of employers), the United States could welcome as
many immigrants as we do today. But instead of shrugging as low-skilled workers
jump the border to compete with the struggling American working class, our
immigration policy should focus on recruiting well-educated migrants, opening
the door to greater legal immigration from Asia, Africa and Europe.

As it happens, a system along these lines exists right now -- in Canada. A
recent report from the Manhattan Institute found that the United States still
assimilates immigrants more successfully than many Western European countries.
But culturally and economically, we lag well behind our northern neighbor when
it comes to integrating new arrivals.

In part, this is because Canada fast-tracks immigrants to citizenship. But it's
also because Canada does more to recruit highly educated emigres than the United
States -- and the Dominion's more international, geographically diverse
immigrant population probably discourages balkanization and self-segregation.
(No single country or region dominates Canada's immigration numbers to the
extent that Mexico and the rest of Latin America dominate immigration to the
United States.)

The result is a system that welcomes newcomers but serves the national interest
as well. America isn't close to that sweet spot at the moment, but it's what we
should be aiming for. By learning from Arizona, and becoming more like Canada,
we might finally have an immigration policy worthy of the U.S.A.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Dismal Ruling in Alabama

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 395 words


A federal judge has upheld most of Alabama's new immigration law, the nation's
harshest and most radical attempt to harness a state's power to find and punish
illegal immigrants. The consequences for Alabamans will be serious -- not just
for the undocumented, but for their blameless citizen children, for those who
are mistaken for unauthorized immigrants and for farmers and other business
owners ensnared in the law.

The statute cracks down on everything from traffic stops to apartment rentals to
elementary school enrollment. It was passed in June and promptly challenged by
three lawsuits -- from the Obama administration, from civil rights groups and
from church leaders. Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn of Federal District Court
in Birmingham blocked some provisions, like one that made it a crime to harbor
or transport illegal immigrants and another that barred illegal immigrants from
public universities. And she enjoined a section that sought to prevent day
laborers from seeking work.

But her mixed ruling was most discouraging for what survived. Judge Blackburn
upheld the ''papers, please'' section, an echo of Arizona's notorious attempt to
require state and local law enforcement officials to check a person's
immigration status during traffic stops if they have ''a reasonable suspicion''
that someone is here illegally.

She upheld a section that criminalized the ''willful failure'' of an illegal
immigrant to carry federal immigration papers. And she left untouched a section
that requires elementary and secondary schools to collect data on the
immigration status of incoming students and their parents, a clearly unlawful
attempt to frighten families into keeping their children out of school.

In the absence of a broad federal reform of immigration laws, states have been
trying to outdo one another in such crackdowns. Their zealotry will now be
encouraged further, as will the racial-profiling, discrimination and other ills
that accompany it. Federal courts in other states have struck down many of the
same provisions that survive, for now, in Alabama, a split that ensures this
sprawling national mess of laws will land in the Supreme Court.

The Justice Department -- which chose to challenge noxious laws in Arizona and
Alabama but not Utah, Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina -- needs to press on
with an emergency appeal of the Alabama ruling.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday

Are Children of Illegal Immigrants Entitled to a Public Education?

BYLINE: SUSANNAH L. GRIFFEE

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 293 words



HIGHLIGHT: What is your take on the school-registration provision of Alabama's
new immigration law?



A New York Times editorial, "Alabama's Shame," argues that the Alabama
immigration law is cruel and counterproductive:

School superintendents and principals across the state confirm that attendance
of Hispanic children has dropped noticeably since the word went out that school
officials are now required to check the immigration status of newly enrolled
students and their parents.

That rule is part of the law's sweeping attempt to curtail the rights and
complicate the lives of people without papers, making them unable to enter
contracts, find jobs, rent homes or access government services. In other words,
to be isolated, unemployable, poor, defenseless and uneducated.

The education crackdown is particularly senseless and unconstitutional. In 1982,
the Supreme Court found that all children living in the United States have the
right to a public education, whatever their immigration status. The justices'
reasoning was shaped not by compassion but practicality: it does the country no
good to perpetuate an uneducated underclass.

Students: Tell us what you think about Alabama's immigration law, including the
school registration provision. What are the arguments for and against the
provision? Which do you most strongly agree and disagree with? Does the law
unfairly keep children from attending school? Or does it ensure that illegal
immigrants cannot take advantage of services meant for American citizens?

Students 13 and older are invited to comment below. Please use only your first
name. For privacy policy reasons, we will not publish student comments that
include a last name.


     ·    Of Coyotes, Crossings and Cellphones
     ·    100 Years Later: Examining the Impact of the Triangle Shirtwaist
          Factory Fire
     ·    A Dream Deferred
     ·    Test Yourself | History, Nov. 12, 2010


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               5 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 9, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Suit Fights Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 100 words


Civil rights groups filed a class-action lawsuit on Friday against a new state
law that cracks down on illegal immigration, saying it would violate the
constitutional rights of United States citizens. The law, which supporters
described as the toughest of its kind in the nation, requires public schools to
report students' immigration status, makes it a crime to give a ride to an
illegal immigrant and bars all contracts with those immigrants. ''This law
revisits the state's painful racial past,'' said Mary Bauer, legal director of
the Southern Poverty Law Center, one of the groups bringing the suit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Challenges Alabama Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 361 words


MONTGOMERY, Ala. (AP) -- The Obama administration is challenging a new Alabama
law that would let the police detain people stopped for traffic offenses who are
suspected of being in the country illegally, a law described as one of the
toughest of its kind nationwide.

The Justice Department filed a complaint on Monday in federal court in
Birmingham stating that the state law conflicts with federal law and undermines
federal immigration priorities. The lawsuit argues that the state law also
expands the opportunities for the police to push immigrants toward incarceration
for various new immigration crimes.

The law, set to take effect Sept. 1, makes it a crime to knowingly give a ride
or shelter to an illegal immigrant. It requires schools to report the
immigration status of students. Alabama employers also would now be required to
use a federal system called E-Verify to determine if new workers are in the
country legally.

The Justice Department, in its filing, says a state cannot set its own
immigration policy and cannot enact laws that conflict with federal immigration
laws.

''To put it in terms we relate to here in Alabama, you can only have one
quarterback in a football game. In immigration, the federal government is the
quarterback,'' said Joyce Vance, United States attorney for the Northern
District of Alabama.

The law is facing opposition on other fronts.

On Monday, Roman Catholic, United Methodist and Episcopal bishops filed a
lawsuit, saying the law ''makes it a crime to follow God's command to be Good
Samaritans.''

Last month, a coalition of civil rights and immigrant rights groups also filed
suit, seeking to bar the law from taking effect. A hearing is scheduled for Aug.
24.

The law's sponsor, Representative Micky Hammon, a Republican, defended it on
Monday.

''The Obama administration and the federal bureaucrats have turned a blind eye
toward the immigration issue and refuse to fulfill their constitutional duty to
enforce laws already on the books,'' he said. ''Now, they want to block our
efforts to secure Alabama's borders and prevent our jobs and taxpayer dollars
from disappearing into the abyss that illegal immigration causes.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

Opinion Report: Alabama's Immigration Law

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 123 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



President Obama will nominate Marilyn Tavenner to head the federal agency that
runs Medicare and Medicaid. She has decades of experience, and deserves
confirmation from Senate Republicans.

A growing number of Alabamans think the cost of the state's new immigration law
will be too high.

The number of people dying from AIDS around the world declined in 2010 for the
third year in a row, but the ability to prevent new infections has stagnated.

A researcher from Cornell University has just identified 11 new bee species,
four from New York City and its immediate environs.


     ·    Gingrich Says the Right Thing! Film at 11
     ·    D.H.S. Responds on Deportation
     ·    Will They Stay or Will They Go?
     ·    Opinion Report: Civil Rights in Alabama
     ·    Oppression Is Not a State's Right


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                               8 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 3, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Georgia: Suit Challenges Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 121 words


Several civil rights groups filed a class-action lawsuit on Thursday against a
new Georgia law that authorizes the police to inquire about the immigration
status of anyone they stop and in practice requires everyone in the state,
including United States citizens, to carry documents verifying their status. The
federal suit was brought by the American Civil Liberties Union and the Southern
Poverty Law Center, among other organizations, against the law, which is
scheduled to take effect July 1. One plaintiff, Paul Bridges, a Republican who
is mayor of the small farming town of Uvalda, said he feared he could be
criminally prosecuted for transporting residents who are illegal immigrants to
the doctor or the grocery store.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Indiana: Immigration Law Blocked

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 131 words


United States District Judge Sarah Evans Barker granted a request for an
injunction blocking provisions of Indiana's new immigration law, which was
approved this year by Republicans who control the Statehouse. Judge Barker
called the provisions ''seriously flawed.'' The American Civil Liberties Union
of Indiana and the National Immigration Law Center sued the state in May,
contending that the law gives the police sweeping arrest powers against
immigrants who have not committed crimes. The state attorney general's office
had argued such fears were exaggerated and were based on a misunderstanding of
the law. ''Today's ruling can be seen as an indictment of the federal government
on their failure to enact and enforce immigration policy,'' Attorney General
Greg Zoeller said Friday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Parts of Georgia Immigration Law Blocked

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON; Robbie Brown contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 476 words


ATLANTA -- A federal judge has blocked the most controversial parts of a tough
new Georgia immigration law that was to have taken effect Friday, but left most
of the law's provisions intact.

The judge, Thomas W. Thrash Jr. of Federal District Court, issued a temporary
injunction against two sections, saying the state was attempting to write
immigration laws that would pre-empt federal statute.

One would require law enforcement officers to check the immigration status of
suspects who cannot provide identification. The other would punish suspects who
intentionally transport or house someone in the country illegally.

''Those were definitely the provisions most devastating to our plaintiffs and to
many Georgia residents,'' said Azadeh Shahshahani of the Georgia chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union, one of the parties that brought the suit. ''This
is a very important decision and an important day.''

Gov. Nathan Deal, a Republican, said the state would appeal, arguing in a
statement from his spokesman that the ruling underscored an essential problem
facing many states: ''Beyond refusing to help with our state's illegal
immigration problem, the federal government is determined to be an obstacle.''

Georgia lawmakers trying to stop the flow of immigrants who have moved to their
state illegally said the ruling would give them time to fine-tune the law to
make it more palatable to the courts.

''I'm pleased that he just didn't put an injunction against the whole law,''
said State Senator Jack Murphy, a Republican. ''We'll call it a partial
victory.''

Parts of the law that remain include a provision requiring businesses and
government agencies to use a federal system to check the immigration status of
new workers and imposes fines of up to $250,000 and 15 years in prison for
people who use fake identification to get a job.

Another provision, which will require people applying for food stamps or public
housing to provide specific forms of identification, will go into effect in
January.

Georgia now joins several other states, including Arizona, Indiana and Utah,
facing similar legal challenges to new immigration laws. The A.C.L.U. says it
plans to contest an immigration law in Alabama and one in South Carolina, which
Gov. Nikki Haley signed Monday.

Whether the injunction will soften the fear among immigrants in Georgia or help
farmers who say the law has sent their workers to other states remains to be
seen.

Juan Garcia, 48, an assistant manager at a Mexican restaurant in a northeastern
Atlanta suburb, heard about the ruling while he was picking up supplies. He ran
into the restaurant and delivered the news. People were excited, he said, but
many customers and workers are still considering moving out of state.

''We're still waiting,'' he said. ''We don't know what will happen, but after
today, we will keep waiting some more.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 30, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Judge Delays Tough Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 93 words


A federal judge in Birmingham has temporarily halted a tough state immigration
law from taking effect on Sept. 1, saying she needed more time to consider
challenges to it. The judge, Sharon L. Blackburn, ordered a stay until Sept. 29,
saying she would rule by then on a longer suspension that opponents of the law
are seeking. Alabama's law to crack down on illegal immigrants has been
described by supporters and opponents alike as the toughest in the nation. Among
others, the Obama administration and four Alabama bishops have brought lawsuits
to stop it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Immigration Law To Stay in Place During Appeal

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 127 words


A federal judge has refused to block Alabama's strict new immigration law while
the Obama administration appeals a ruling last week that upholds major portions
of it. Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn of United States District Court had
upheld provisions allowing the police to ask for immigration papers during
routine traffic stops and requiring schools to learn the immigration status of
students when they register, as well as making most contracts with illegal
immigrants unenforceable. The Obama administration and other groups oppose the
law, and the administration sought to block enforcement during appeals. Judge
Blackburn said that the Justice Department had not shown that the government was
''likely to prevail'' on appeal, a standard for issuing a stay.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

South Carolina: Groups Sue Over Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 117 words


Civil rights groups led by the American Civil Liberties Union filed suit on
Wednesday to prevent the state's new illegal immigration law from taking effect
in January. The federal lawsuit names Gov. Nikki R. Haley and state Attorney
General Alan Wilson as defendants along with Charleston County's sheriff and a
state prosecutor. The challengers say the law is unconstitutional because
regulating immigration is a function of the federal government. The law requires
police officers to check suspects' immigration status and mandates that all
businesses check their hires through a federal online system. It is similar to
those the A.C.L.U. is challenging in Alabama, Arizona, Utah, Indiana and
Georgia.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Critics See 'Chilling Effect' in Alabama Immigration Law

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1280 words


ALABASTER, Ala. -- The champions of Alabama's far-reaching immigration law have
said that it is intended to drive illegal immigrants from the state by making
every aspect of their life difficult. But they have taken a very different tone
when it comes to the part of the law concerning schools.

''No child will be denied an education based on unlawful status,'' the state
attorney general, Luther Strange, argued in a court filing.

The man who wrote the schools provision says the same thing, that it is not
meant as a deterrent -- at least not yet. It is, however, a first step in a
larger and long-considered strategy to topple a 29-year-old Supreme Court ruling
that all children in the United States, regardless of their immigration status,
are guaranteed a public education.

The provision, which is known as Section 28, requires primary and secondary
schools to record the immigration status of incoming students and their parents
and pass that data on to the state.

Critics say it is a simple end in itself, an attempt to circumvent settled law
and to scare immigrants away from school now, not at some point in the future.
Weeks of erratic school attendance figures and a spike in withdrawals show that
this has worked, they argue. And indeed, a federal appeals court on Oct. 14
blocked the provision pending an appeal by the Justice Department, though the
court did not rule on the merits.

Michael M. Hethmon, general counsel for the Immigration Reform Law Institute in
Washington, who wrote the provision, insists that its goal is much more
ambitious.

The eventual target, he said, is the 1982 Supreme Court decision Plyler v. Doe.
The case concerned a Texas statute that withheld funds for the education of
illegal immigrants and allowed districts to bar them from enrollment, as well as
one Texas school district's plan to charge illegal immigrants tuition.

The court ruled that this violated the Constitution's equal protection clause,
saying that the statute ''imposes a lifetime hardship on a discrete class of
children not accountable'' for their immigration status. In the decision, the
court also said that the state had not presented evidence showing it was
substantially harmed by giving these children -- as distinct from any other
children -- a free public education.

Over the ensuing decades, measures have been passed in defiance of this ruling,
most notably California's Proposition 187, but they have been repeatedly struck
down in the courts. Mr. Hethmon said the problem with these challenges is that
they have not taken the trouble to gather the evidence the court found missing
in Plyler.

''The toughest question has been obtaining reliable -- and I mean reliable for
peer-reviewed research purposes -- censuses of the number of illegal alien
students enrolled in school districts,'' he said. ''That information could be
compared with other sorts of performance or resource allocation issues.''

The Alabama law directs schools to ascertain the immigration status of incoming
students, through a birth certificate, other official documents or an affidavit
by the child's parents (the law also directs schools to determine the
immigration status of an enrolling child's parents, but gave no mechanism by
which to do so).

That information is then passed on to the State Board of Education not only to
prepare an annual report with the data but also to ''contract with reputable
scholars and research institutions'' to determine the costs, fiscal and
otherwise, of educating illegal immigrants.

Because no one is actually barred from attending school and the data is not
passed on to law enforcement, the provision passes constitutional muster, Mr.
Hethmon said.

But it also potentially enables a fresh challenge to Plyler v. Doe, and the idea
that schools are obligated to provide a free education to illegal immigrants.

Critics dismiss this as a ruse.

They say that the law instills such fear in immigrant families with
schoolchildren, leading predictably to such erratic attendance figures, that it
belies any claim that the state is seriously attempting an accurate measurement.

''This seems to be really a transparent attempt at a pretext to try to justify
discriminatory law,'' said Lucas Guttentag, a professor of immigration law at
Yale Law School and senior counsel of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the
American Civil Liberties Union. ''The idea that they're somehow going to collect
this data and show anything that's conceivably relevant is a fantasy.''

In Plyler v. Doe, Professor Guttentag said, the court found that the state's
actions were unconstitutional on a number of grounds. The state's failure to
show the impact of illegal immigration on schools was only a part of the
decision, he said, and a nuanced one at that. The likelihood that the data
collected by this law would lead to that decision's being overturned, Professor
Guttentag said, was extremely low.

Though there has not been a direct census, there are estimates of illegal
immigrants in Alabama schools. According to American Community Survey data, a
little less than one-half of 1 percent of the 800,000 children in Alabama
schools are in the country illegally; of the 34,000 Hispanic children in Alabama
schools, according to Pew Hispanic Center estimates, roughly two thirds are
American citizens.

The law also requires schools to track the enrollment of illegal immigrants in
remedial English programs (though this part, too, was ignored in the state's
actual execution of the law). There is existing data about the national origin
of such students, at least at the district level.

Here in Shelby County, which has one of the fastest-growing Hispanic populations
in the state, there are about 1,400 remedial English students, out of roughly
18,700 statewide. They came into the schools here speaking 52 languages,
including Chinese and Arabic, though the majority came in as Spanish speakers,
said Leah Dobbs Black, the English as a Second Language program supervisor for
the county.

Ten years ago, she said, as many as 9 out of 10 students in need of remedial
English were born outside the country, a fact students already report on
language assessment forms. Now, she said, ''It's at least 50-50.''

Ms. Black added that Shelby schools spend about $4 million on the program out of
an annual budget of $281 million, though she acknowledged that parents tend to
complain more about the money spent on that program than others.

Whether the critics are correct in arguing that the law has created a ''chilling
effect,'' inducing families to pull their children out of school, is harder to
measure than it may seem.

While daily absences by Hispanic students ranged as high as 5,143, or 15 percent
of the Hispanic student population, they had dropped to 1,230 the day before the
provision was blocked, said a spokeswoman for the state Department of Education
(on a normal day, she said, around 1,000 absences can be expected). Statewide
data has not been compiled as to how many students have fully withdrawn, though
interviews in several districts suggest that number could be in the hundreds.

Several parents in Shelby County who are in the country illegally said in
interviews that they were less frightened about Section 28 than about other
parts of the law. Their children were all United States citizens by birth, they
said, and school officials had so far been reassuring.

The antagonism in schools now, they said, is mainly coming from other children.

''A little girl in my daughter's class asked when she was going to go to Mexico
because she was illegal,'' said a 27-year-old woman who gave her name as Arelly,
the mother of a fourth grader. ''I think they hear their parents talking.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michelle Power, an English as a Second Language teacher at
Valley Elementary School in Pelham, Ala., helps Fernando Cruz, right, and Antony
Guzman, left. (A14)
 Alabama schools, including Valley Elementary in Pelham, collect immigration
data on students. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY  RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 6, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Standing in the Schoolhouse Door

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 514 words


Surely Alabama's attorney general, Luther Strange, did not mean to summon the
memory of Gov. George Wallace when he picked a fight with the Department of
Justice last week over the state's new immigration law.

Surely no law-enforcement official of his stature would have responded to a
fact-gathering request by challenging the federal government's ''legal
authority'' to investigate reports of civil rights abuses. Could there be an
attorney general in the South -- or anywhere -- who is not acutely aware, and
mindful, of the Civil Rights Act of 1964?

The federal inquiry was prompted by the state's new immigration law, which took
effect in September, part of which requires schools to check the immigration
status of schoolchildren and their parents. The Justice Department has already
sued Alabama over the law, the nation's cruelest collection of immigration
enforcement schemes and punishments. After receiving reports that students were
being harassed and bullied, and that frightened parents were keeping children
out of school, the department asked 39 school superintendents for data on
student absences and withdrawals since the school year began.

Instead of acknowledging that the Supreme Court has upheld every child's right
to a public education regardless of immigration status, and that the new law
requires schools to collect the information that the government was seeking, Mr.
Strange sent Thomas Perez, head of the Civil Rights Division, an ultimatum.

''I was perplexed and troubled to learn that you have personally written to
Alabama's school superintendents demanding information related to the pending
litigation,'' he wrote. ''Your letter does not state your legal authority to
demand the information or to compel its production. If you have such legal
authority, please provide it to me by noon Central Standard Time on Friday,
November 4, 2011. Otherwise, I will assume that you have none and will proceed
accordingly.''

Mr. Perez's reply, sent Friday, was to the point. He cited Title IV of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, and the Equal Educational Opportunities Act. He also
reminded Mr. Strange of an array of other laws that federal agencies would be
considering when investigating possible violations in Alabama: the Fair Housing
Act, the Safe Streets Act, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act,
the Fair Labor Standards Act and Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, ''among
others.''

Alabama has seized from the federal government the job of controlling
immigration within its borders. The law's architects and supporters proclaim
that their goal is to catastrophically disrupt the lives of illegal immigrants
and their families. With reports of harassment and panic, and of a mass exodus
of immigrants fleeing the state, the potential for civil rights abuses is
acutely obvious.

That Alabama's attorney general would not welcome a federal inquiry, but bristle
instead, with an implicit appeal to state's rights -- with all the defiant
history of intolerance and minority oppression those words suggest -- says
volumes. All Americans should feel ashamed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Alabama, Calls for Revamping Immigration Law

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1245 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- An increasing number of state lawmakers say they are willing
to consider critical changes to Alabama's sweeping anti-immigration law, part of
which appears to make proof of citizenship or legal residency a requirement even
for mundane activities like garbage pickup, dog licenses and flu shots at county
health departments.

As they learn more about the breadth of the law, which was already described as
the most far-reaching of the state-level immigration laws when it went into
effect on Sept. 29, some political leaders have gone beyond acknowledging a
general need for ''tweaks'' to openly discussing specific changes, which in some
cases are as substantial as getting rid of certain provisions in their entirety.

''The longer the bill has been out, the more unintended consequences we have
found,'' said Slade Blackwell, a Republican state senator. ''All of us realize
we need to change it.''

Changing this law is not as easy as it may appear. For one thing, it is still
very popular. Those open to changes are quick to emphasize that they do not want
to dilute the law's purpose: to deter illegal immigrants from working in the
state and to prevent them from benefiting from taxpayer-financed services.

''Eighty percent of the population of the state thinks it's a good bill, so
politically you're kind of careful to say anything negative about it,'' said
Judge James V. Perdue, president of the Alabama Probate Judges Association.
''Those that passed it don't want to admit that there's anything wrong with
it.''

But as lawmakers hear complaints from business leaders and constituents, several
have become more willing to discuss changing, clarifying or in some cases
scrapping sections of the law governing schools, government transactions and
several of the law's stiff penalty provisions.

Outside of farmers and poultry plant operators, who have complained of severe
labor shortages, the most pointed criticisms concern a legally vague provision
that requires proof of immigration status for ''any transaction between a person
and the state or a political subdivision of the state.''

The law lists three examples of such transactions: renewing driver's licenses,
business licenses and car tags. In a court filing in August, the state argued
that the United States Justice Department, which is challenging the law, was
exaggerating the law's reach.

''Its fear that Section 30 would prohibit such aliens from having running water
or sewer services, for example, has little basis,'' the filing said.

But lawyers across the state are concluding that this section could be
interpreted, in the words of Birmingham's city attorney, Thomas Bentley, to
apply to ''almost everything that we do.''

Utilities that are run directly by municipalities, like Huntsville Utilities,
which provides electricity, water and gas to 164,000 customers, are indeed
barred by the law from providing any services to illegal immigrants. Other
utilities, those that are public corporations like Alabama Power, are not. Some
exist in a legally complicated territory in between.

''One afternoon, we sat down and we had the county directory and we went through
and made a list of every county department that interfaces directly with
citizens,'' said Julian Butler, the attorney for Madison County, which includes
the City of Huntsville.

Some already required some form of identification, Mr. Butler said, but many did
not. He and his colleagues are still discussing whether people can rent a
pavilion at a county park, enroll children in a Little League team or sign up
for a membership at the county swimming pool without first proving that they are
citizens or legal residents. Paying property taxes might require a trip to the
courthouse with documentation. Architects, nurses, hair stylists, plumbers, real
estate agents and a host of other professions will have to demonstrate their
legal status every time their licenses are renewed.

''There are a lot of frustrated citizens that are being inconvenienced by the
implementation of the law and who didn't think it was going to impact them,''
said State Senator Paul Sanford, the only Republican senator to vote against the
law and the author of two bills that would amend it.

To enable online transactions and thus shorten the long lines that have formed
at some courthouses, the state created a database of everyone with a current
Alabama driver's license, a document the state has deemed acceptable proof of
immigration status.

But there are some transactions that require more than that. And people with
out-of-state licenses or military ID's will in many cases have to produce some
other documentation in person at government offices.

''I had a military guy who came back from Afghanistan and went to get him a tag
for a new truck and he couldn't, he needed to show his birth certificate,'' said
State Senator Gerald Dial, who voted for the law but said he would not have if
he had known of some of its ''unintended consequences.''

As the law is written, the stakes of wrong interpretation are high. Agencies or
officials that do not carry out the law to its fullest extent could be liable
for civil or criminal penalties. Observing a violation of the law and failing to
report it is a crime. A clerk who violates Section 30 could be facing a felony
charge.

''If it's a borderline case, you're going to err on the side of caution,'' Judge
Perdue said. ''I talked to people who wrote the law and they said, 'That's not
what we meant.' But if you say 'felony' I've got to assume that's the way it
is.''

The breadth of the law has, in some ways, flipped the political script. The
Huntsville Times, in an editorial, derided the Republican sponsors of the law
for teaching ''a lesson about the ills of big government.'' More than a few
officials have disparaged it as an unfunded mandate.

In an e-mail message, State Senator Scott Beason, a Republican who sponsored the
law, rebuffed this criticism, pointing out that ''providing identification is a
common practice when dealing with the state and many private entities.'' He also
added that he has long been open to ''ironing out any administrative
difficulties or ambiguities.'' Gov. Robert Bentley has also recently said that
the law was ''complicated'' and needed to be simplified.

Senator Sanford, who said he was fully supportive of the law's intent,
acknowledged the political difficulties of making changes he considered
necessary.

''If you put too many issues out there that need to get fixed,'' he said, ''it
looks like you passed a totally flawed bill, and that's why you hear words like,
'Well, we just want to tweak it.' ''

The proposed changes range in scope, and until the Legislature meets in January,
are largely in the discussion stages.

For his part, Senator Dial said he wanted to change the section covering
government transactions, but to completely drop the provision that requires
schools to ascertain immigration status of new students, a section that has been
temporarily blocked by a federal appeals court. He also said he would insert a
''good Samaritan'' provision for anyone trying to help illegal immigrants in
emergencies.

In the meantime, the Alabama Department of Homeland Security has been inviting
state and county officials to regular meetings in Montgomery so that they can
arrive at a uniform interpretation of the law, said John Schremser, a spokesman
for the department.

For now, he said, ''We're asking them to do the best they can with what they've
got.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Newly required proof of immigration status for government
transactions has meant lines outside the Jefferson County Courthouse in
Birmingham, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BUTCH DILL/BLOOMBERG NEWS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Setback For Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 112 words


A federal judge in Montgomery has stopped state officials from using Alabama's
tough new immigration law to prevent immigrants from renewing required permits
on manufactured homes. The judge, Myron H. Thompson of United States District
Court, issued a temporary restraining order Wednesday evening that allows
Alabama residents to renew registration of manufactured homes without requiring
that they prove that they are in the country legally. The deadline for renewing
the registration without being fined is Nov. 30. Lawyers for a coalition of
civil rights groups said earlier that by refusing to renew the permits, state
officials could force people to abandon their homes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            November 8, 2011 Tuesday

Oppression Is Not a State's Right

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 554 words



HIGHLIGHT: In our time, the great fight against racist policies is over
immigration reform.


Stop me if you've heard this one: Elected officials in Southern states barring
the schoolhouse door, shaking their fists at the federal government over civil
rights, the Constitution and their right to oppress minority groups without
Washington's meddling.

In our time, the great fight against racist policies is over immigration reform.
Moderate Americans want it - to resolve the problem of tens of millions of
illegal immigrants coming to do jobs Americans don't want and do better
themselves. Extremists do not want it, and they seem to be willing to do
anything to stop it.

Arizona has been one battleground. Now it is Alabama, which has the most
outrageous anti-immigration laws in the nation - including the requirement that
schools check the immigration status of students and their parents.

The Justice Department has sued Alabama, just as it sued Arizona over its
anti-immigrant laws. And after reports of bullying and harassment and of
terrified parents keeping their children home from school, Justice asked 39
school superintendents for data on absences and withdrawals.

Alabama's attorney general, Luther Strange, responded with the absurd
declaration that Washington had no legal right to do that. Actually it does,
under the Civil Rights Act and the Equal Educational Opportunities Act. The Fair
Housing Act, the Safe Streets Act, the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement
Act, and the Fair Labor Standards Act, also apply to aspects of Alabama's
crackdown on Hispanic immigrants.

So Senators Jim DeMint of South Carolina, David Vitter of Louisiana and Jeff
Sessions of Alabama decided to avoid all those annoying laws and introduce
legislation barring the use of federal money to sue over a state's immigration
policies.

Lawrence Downes, who covers immigration for the editorial board, said this is a
bitter example of what has happened since federal immigration reform died during
the administration of President George W. Bush, who supported reform, by the
way. Lawrence said:

In the absence of federal immigration reform, states are going rogue, passing
laws designed to terrorize vulnerable populations.

Justice has already sued Arizona, Alabama, and South Caroline, charging that
their homegrown immigration schemes, designed to force undocumented immigrants
out of state and underground, are an unconstitutional intrusion onto federal
turf.

They are that. But to Mr. Vitter, Mr. DeMint and Mr. Sessions, this is none of
the federal government's business.

"We're working to stop these politically driven lawsuits by cutting off the
ability for the Obama administration to use taxpayers' money to pay for them,"
Mr. Vitter said in a news release.

It's interesting isn't it? Republican politicians oppose states' rights to
provide marriage equality under the law for all Americans and to investigate
illegal gun trafficking from other states. But oppress minorities, and they're
suddenly all gung ho about states' rights.

The Times editorial board will continue monitoring the situation in Alabama. We
wrote about the fight over the schools last Sunday. Coming up, we'll examine the
ways the crackdown is harming American citizens, and damaging the state's
economy.

No state has the right to violate sacred Constitutional guarantees of equality
and due process. Our country settled that issue long ago, the hard way.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              19 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday

Contrarian Common Sense

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 810 words



HIGHLIGHT: Liberals and conservatives defied conventional wisdom this week and
did the right thing.


In politics, certain things are not supposed to happen: Liberals never reject a
tax increase.  Conservatives always favor the strongest anti-immigration leader.
And big corporations can't really buy an election because voters see through
them.

They are not supposed to happen, that is, until they do. In Tuesday's election,
three voter choices showed that people will throw off the strait-jacket of
conventional wisdom if properly persuaded. On a night when voters rejected
extremism in its mostly far-right forms (the Mississippi "personhood" amendment,
Ohio union-busting), they also defied the mold in a trio of actions out West.

First, the heat went out of Arizona.  It's been simmering for some time with the
hateful back-and-forth on immigration, a polarization that prompted the Mormon
Church to call for a return to sanity. In ousting Russell Pearce, the Republican
president of the State Senate and the architect of the show-me-your-papers
immigration law in 2010, voters in his conservative district listened to less
strident voices, including influential Mormons.

Pearce was voted out of office  - the first state legislator to be recalled in
Arizona history - and replaced by another Republican, Jerry Lewis, who had
compared the state to "1964 Alabama."  He promised to bring  "a civil tone" back
to the immigration discussion.

On one side were all the heavyweights behind one of the nation's most draconian
anti-immigration measures, a law now largely suspended by the courts. Governor
Jan Brewer and the sheriff of Maricopa County, Joe Arpaio, stood with Pearce.

On the other side were Mormon moderates and an immigrant rights group that took
an early stand against Pearce.  Party lines were blurred.  "The political
jerseys came off," said Petra Falcon, who led much of the effort against Pearce.

At the other end of the political spectrum, in Seattle, residents overwhelming
turned down a tax increase that was billed as a boost for transit.  The vote was
another slap at Mayor Mike McGinn, a feckless social engineer who, on behalf of
his dwindling constituency of bicycle riders, promoted an increase in the fee
for renewing vehicle registrations.

The chances of Seattle voting down a tax increase are about the same as those of
the Mariners winning a pennant. In fact, Seattle voters strongly favored another
tax increase on Tuesday, on behalf of education. But the car tab measure was a
bridge too far and would not have fixed many bridges, either. It was another of
the mayor's nutty schemes to turn the city into Amsterdam-with-hills, the idea
being that every car owner would pay an additional $60 toward things like more
bike lanes and the "planning" of future trolley lines.

The fact that new taxes for an ostensibly progressive cause can be rejected by a
60 to 40 margin in a city where Republicans have trouble getting 20 percent of
the vote says more about voter fatigue with poorly-thought-out ideas than it
does about shifting political loyalties.

The last lesson in unusual politics comes from Costco, longtime home of the
$1.50 hot dog and gummy bears by the barrel.  Using its newfound powers as a
corporation-as-a-person granted them by the Supreme Court, Citizen Costco spent
about $20 million on an initiative to persuade Washington voters to privatize
the liquor business.  No corporation, or individual, had ever spent so much
money in the state on any voter measure.

Opponents hammered away at the spectacle of a big corporation buying an election
- which is exactly what happened.  Costco bought its 20-point majority with
nonstop ads. How could this be? In last year's race for governor of California,
the Republican billionaire Meg Whitman spent $141 million of her own money
trying to buy the state's highest office and still lost.  Voters were repulsed
by big money, the pundits said.

But people can be bought, as Costco showed, if voters like the buyer.  Costco is
a home-grown Washington institution, known as the anti-Wal-Mart for its good
wage-and-benefit packages.  That $1.50 hot dog has not gone up in price since
Costco gave birth to it circa 1985.  Opponents from both parties conceded that
Costco's good reputation in the state played a major role in its victory.

Costco also learned from the defeat of a similar measure last year.  It changed
the language for this year's ballot so that the state would get more net
revenue, while still getting out of the liquor business. And the measure limited
liquor sales to larger stores (like Costco!), preventing mini-marts from selling
booze on the fly.

When those crates full of Jack Daniels start to appear in warehouses next June,
a toast to defiance of political hard truths may be in order.


     ·    Other Stops: Talks About Iraq Must Involve Iran
     ·    The Middle Ground
     ·    Other Stops: Comparing Health Care Plans
     ·    Other Stops: You Say You Want a Revolution ...
     ·    Getting to Know Them


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              20 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 18, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 93 words


The Sports of The Times column last Monday, about the muted opposition to Major
League Baseball's decision to keep its All-Star Game in Phoenix after the
passage of Arizona's immigration law, misstated the date that the executive
director of the players union, Michael Weiner, issued a statement expressing
opposition to the law but not calling for a player boycott of the event. The
statement that was quoted was made on April 30 -- not on July 8, when a similar
statement was also issued, noting that portions of the immigration law had been
judged unlawful.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Hispanics Stage Protest

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 168 words


At least a half-dozen poultry plants shut down or scaled back operations on
Wednesday and many other businesses closed as Hispanics skipped work to protest
the state's tough immigration law. The work stoppage was aimed at demonstrating
the economic contribution of Alabama's Hispanic immigrants. It was unclear
exactly how widespread the protests were, but a poultry company spokesman said
that officials were reporting unusually high absences at plants in the northeast
of the state, where much of Alabama's chicken industry is based. In the
northeastern town of Albertville, numerous businesses along Main Street that are
owned by Hispanics had the lights off and signs that said they would not be
open. Mexican restaurants, a bank that caters to Hispanics, small grocery stores
and supermarkets were all shuttered. The law allows police officers to detain
people indefinitely if they are suspected of being in the country illegally, and
it requires schools to check the status of new students when they enroll.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           November 26, 2011 Saturday

Bachmann Renews Attack on Gingrich Over Immigration

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 658 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michele Bachmann called Mr. Gingrich "the most liberal G.O.P.
candidate on the issue of immigration reform.''


Representative Michele Bachmann renewed her attack on Saturday of Newt Gingrich
over illegal immigration, saying once again that he favored "amnesty" for the 11
million illegal immigrants in the United States.

As evidence, Mrs. Bachmann released a letter that Mr. Gingrich co-signed in 2004
supporting a proposal by President Bush for a guest-worker program that would
have let undocumented workers already holding jobs apply for special status,
giving them employee benefits and the ability to come and go across the border.

Mrs. Bachmann called Mr. Gingrich "the most liberal G.O.P. candidate on the
issue of immigration reform'' in a statement.
The issue, which arose after a debate on Tuesday night in which Mr. Gingrich
called for a "humane" solution for illegal immigrants who after many years had
put down roots in American communities, is posing the greatest test so far to
his resurgent candidacy.

The Republican base has moved sharply to the right on the issue since Mr. Bush
floated his guest-worker program, which he dropped as too politically risky
before his 2004 re-election campaign.

Republican primary voters strongly disapprove of any program suggesting amnesty
for illegal immigrants. That is exactly how Mrs. Bachmann and Mitt Romney
characterized Mr. Gingrich's proposals to allow some illegal immigrants to
attain legal status.

On Wednesday Mr. Romney attacked Mr. Gingrich for arbitrarily tying legal status
to the length of time someone has been in the country.
"How about someone who has been here 20 years?'' he said.  "How about 12 years?
How about 10? 5? 3?"

He, too, labeled Mr. Gingrich's proposal "amnesty.''

Mr. Gingrich said Friday at a campaign appearance in Naples, Fla., that his
Republican rivals were twisting his position. "Some of my friends decided they
would articulate alternative versions of what I said, which wasn't what I said,
but that's partially the nature of politics,'' he said.

He repeated his support for a system to give legal status to some who have long
been in the United States, stating the minimum would be 25 years. He would leave
the choice to grant legal status (which would not include voting rights) to
local community boards.

"I am not for amnesty for anyone,'' he said Friday according to news reports. "I
am not for a path to citizenship for anybody who got here illegally."

Mr. Gingrich appears to be in a difficult position in trying to sketch a nuanced
policy for the millions of illegal immigrants in the country. He said he would
secure the Mexican border by Jan. 1, 2014, and fine businesses that hired
undocumented workers.  But in  suggesting anything less than deporting all 11
million illegal immigrants currently in the country, he opens himself up to
charges of "amnesty.''

Mrs. Bachmann, who has made a hard line on illegal immigration a signature of
her campaign, repeated that Mr. Gingrich favors amnesty for all 11 million.

"You don't come into this country illegally and get a special pathway to stay
here,'' she said in her statement.  "This type of amnesty will only encourage
other illegals to enter our country illegally.''

The February 2004 letter that she circulated, printed in The Wall Street
Journal, was an indication of how conservative opinion has shifted on the issue.
Among its 15 signatories, besides Mr. Gingrich, was Ed Goeas, who earlier this
year was an adviser to Mrs. Bachmann.

A spokesman for Mr. Gingrich, R.C. Hammond, said, "Nothing Mr. Gingrich has put
forward or proposed is in any way amnesty.''

"The only people who don't seem to get it are politicians,'' he added.  "Newt is
offering real leadership, how to solve a complex problem.  It's unfortunate that
Mitt Romney and Michele Bachmann are instead looking to confuse and lie.''


     ·    Gingrich Assesses the Republican Field
     ·    2008: Immigration and the Trail
     ·    2008: G.O.P. Rumble in Columbia
     ·    2008 Like It's Today: Tancredo In (Illegal Immigrants Out?)
     ·    2008 Like It's Today: Politics and Friendship


LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              23 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Crackdown On Employing Illegal Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words


TUCSON -- Obama administration officials are sharpening their crackdown on the
hiring of illegal immigrants by focusing increasingly tough criminal charges on
employers while moving away from criminal arrests of the workers themselves.

After months of criticism from Republicans who said President Obama was relaxing
immigration enforcement in workplaces, the scope of the administration's
strategy has become clear as long-running investigations of employers have
culminated in indictments, convictions, exponentially increased fines and jail
sentences. While conducting fewer headline-making factory raids, the immigration
authorities have greatly expanded the number of businesses facing scrutiny and
the cases where employers face severe sanctions.

In a break with Bush-era policies, the number of criminal cases against
unauthorized immigrant workers has dropped sharply over the last two years.

Among the employers who have felt the impact of the administration's tactics are
two owners of Mexican restaurants in the Chuy's Mesquite Broiler chain, which
are popular for their laid-back Margaritaville mood and their broiled mahi
tacos. On April 20, immigration agents descended on 14 Chuy's restaurants in
coordinated raids in Arizona and California, detaining kitchen workers and
carrying away boxes of payroll books and other evidence.

But at the arraignment days later in federal court here, no immigrant workers
stood before the judge. The only criminal defendants were the owners, Mark
Evenson and his son Christopher, and an accountant who worked with them, Diane
Ingrid Strehlow. If the Evensons are convicted on all charges against them of
tax fraud and harboring illegal workers, they each could face more than 80 years
in jail.

Of 42 illegal immigrants caught in the Chuy's sweep, only one was charged with a
crime, and it was not related to the raid. Thirteen workers were processed for
immigration violations -- which are civil offenses -- and detained or deported.
The others remained in this country as witnesses or to seek legal status through
the immigration courts.

Under President George W. Bush, immigration agents frequently conducted
high-profile factory raids, leading away scores of unauthorized workers in
handcuffs, often to face jail time for document fraud or identity theft before
being deported. After a raid in Postville, Iowa, in 2008, nearly 300 immigrant
workers went to federal prison.

The Chuy's prosecution contrasted with the application by state and county
authorities of a law that Arizona adopted in 2007 to punish employers who hire
illegal immigrants; the measure was upheld by the Supreme Court on Thursday.
Despite the political furor over that law, only a handful of cases have been
brought against employers under its terms, which provide mainly for civil
penalties. But state authorities have continued to bring criminal cases against
illegal immigrant workers, leading to their deportations.

The Obama administration's record on workplace enforcement has been fiercely
debated in Washington since President Obama announced that he would try, against
steep odds, to pass an immigration overhaul this year. Administration officials
say that their audits and investigations of employers have laid the groundwork
for a system that would dissuade companies from hiring illegal immigrants.

''We have steadily increased our efforts to investigate and prosecute employers
who violate the law on a serious and grand scale,'' said John Morton, the
director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, also known as ICE. The next
step, administration officials said, is to open a pathway that would allow
millions of illegal immigrants in the country to live and work here legally.

Republicans, pointing to the decline in arrests of unauthorized workers, say the
administration is failing to remove those immigrants from the work force just
when Americans are grappling with high rates of unemployment.

''While President Bush's so-called get-tough strategy clearly did not do enough
to remove illegal workers, President Obama's strategy is much worse,'' said
Representative Elton Gallegly, Republican of California, who is chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee.

Secretary Janet Napolitano of the Homeland Security Department halted the
flashier raids in 2009. Until this year, ICE's leading tactic was ''silent
raids,'' audits of companies' hiring documents. If immigration inspectors found
irregularities suggesting that immigrant workers' identity documents might be
false, managers had to dismiss the workers or risk prosecution.

Last year, according to government figures, the enforcement agency started 2,746
workplace investigations in addition to the audits, more than double the number
in 2008, the last full year of the Bush administration. Fines totaling about $43
million, also a record, were levied on companies in immigration cases.

Department of Homeland Security officials, speaking anonymously in order to
discuss internal policy, said immigration officers were no longer authorized to
carry out workplace raids unless they cooperated with federal prosecutors to
prepare criminal cases against the employers. Last year, 119 employers were
convicted.

In March, Rick M. Vartanian, the president of a furniture company in California,
was sentenced to 10 months in prison for hiring illegal immigrants. A federal
investigation is also under way into hiring practices at the Chipotle chain of
Mexican fast-food restaurants.

Dennis K. Burke, the United States attorney for Arizona, who led the Chuy's
prosecutions, called them a ''game changer'' for the state. During a lengthy
inquiry, investigators, including undercover operatives, discovered that the
Evensons were keeping two sets of books: one for waiters and cashiers, Mr. Burke
said, and another for Mexican kitchen workers.

According to the indictment, a customer complained to Mark Evenson that he was
employing illegal immigrants. ''I need to hide you in the kitchen,'' Mr. Evenson
is said to have told one Hispanic employee he knew to be undocumented.

Mr. Burke said prosecutors saw that they could accuse the Evensons under the
severe penalties of the tax code -- ''the hammer,'' as he put it. Charged with
evading more than $400,000 in taxes on wages for some 360 unauthorized immigrant
workers, the Evensons together face more than $10 million in fines if convicted
on all counts. They have pleaded not guilty, and their lawyers declined to
comment, saying they awaited evidence from prosecutors.

Unusually, even immigration lawyers who represented Chuy's workers spoke
favorably of the federal handling of the case.

''ICE was nice,'' said Delia Salvatierra, a lawyer in Phoenix who represents two
workers who were in the process of gaining legal status when they were detained.
''It was as benign as it can get,'' she said. Officers released the two workers
so they could pursue their cases in immigration court.

The two of them, who are brothers, said they came to the United States from
Mexico in the 1990s. Both had worked most of the time since in Chuy's
restaurants. The eldest, Alejandro Diaz Ojeda, 36, learned to cook the Chuy's
menu. Then he taught his brother, Javier, who is 30.

The brothers said they had been treated well. ''I became very fond of the
company,'' Javier said.

Their experience, however, suggests how the Evensons kept their menu prices
famously low. The brothers said they were paid an hourly wage -- Javier made
$9.50 after 14 years -- by payroll check for the first 40 hours a week. Any
overtime was paid with a different check, with no taxes deducted and no higher
rate, they said. Both brothers said they often worked 70 hours a week.

The severe charges against the Evensons registered broadly with Arizona
executives, business leaders here in Tucson said. But they said the case was
mainly a cautionary lesson for managers who knowingly hire unauthorized
immigrants.

''If companies are paying workers under the table,'' said Glenn Hamer, president
of the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry, ''we encourage the federal
government to throw the book at them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, a raid on a branch of Chuy's Mesquite Broiler in
Phoenix. The Chuy's owners are accused of tax fraud and harboring illegal
workers like Javier Diaz Ojeda, far left, and his brother Alejandro.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM TINGLE/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday

Perry Walks Back on Heartless Remark

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 316 words



HIGHLIGHT: Rick Perry retreats from the wording and tone, if not the substance,
of his remarks on granting some children of illegal immigrants in-state tuition
at Texas public universities.


Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Wednesday that it was "inappropriate" of him to
have branded as heartless those who oppose tuition breaks for the children of
illegal immigrants.

In an interview with Newsmaxx.com, Mr. Perry said that his remarks during last
week's debate were "inappropriate" and that he had been "overpassionate" in his
answer to the question.

"I probably chose a poor word to explain that," Mr. Perry said in the interview.
"For people who don't want their state to be giving tuition to illegal aliens,
illegal immigrants in this country, that's their call, and I respect that."

In the debate, Mr. Perry had been asked about the program in Texas, in which the
children of illegal immigrants receive tuition discounts when they attend
universities in the state. He defended the program and criticized those who
disagree.

"If you say that we should not educate children who have come into our state for
no other reason than they've been brought there by no fault of their own, I
don't think you have a heart," Mr. Perry said. "We need to be educating these
children, because they will become a drag on our society."

His retreat, which came after a week of being slammed by conservatives who back
tough treatment for illegal immigrants, signals how much Mr. Perry's campaign
was worried about the political repercussions. On Tuesday night, for instance,
he was criticized by Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey for his remarks.

But Mr. Perry did not back away from his support of the policy.

Perhaps mindful of flip-flopping on a key issue, Mr. Perry said he stood by his
support of the legislation, which he noted again was backed by the vast majority
of lawmakers from both parties in his state.

"I was probably a bit overpassionate by using that word. And it was
inappropriate," he said. "But here's what I do believe: That it is a state's
sovereign right to decide that issue for themselves."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              25 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Stance on Immigration May Hurt Perry Early On

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 974 words


With a single phrase implying his opponents are heartless, Gov. Rick Perry of
Texas plumbed a profound divide between his views on illegal immigration and
those of many grass-roots conservatives, who up to now have been the core of his
support for the Republican nomination.

Mr. Perry summoned the phrase in a debate on Thursday night to justify a Texas
law that lets some children of illegal immigrants pay in-state tuition at public
colleges. If you oppose it, he said, ''I don't think you have a heart.''

His remarks were instantly seized upon by rivals, none more so than Mitt Romney,
who vetoed a similar bill as Massachusetts governor.

''I think if you're opposed to illegal immigration, it doesn't mean that you
don't have a heart,'' he said Friday to a group of conservative activists. ''It
means that you have a heart and a brain.''

And so the deeply visceral issue of illegal immigration has shown that geography
sometimes trumps ideology in politics: as governor of a border state with a
large Hispanic population and entwined cultural identities, Mr. Perry has a more
moderate, nuanced position than his rivals.

The governor shepherded, with bipartisan support, the 2001 legislation in Texas
letting the undocumented children of illegal immigrants pay in-state tuition for
higher education, and he has been opposed to a fence the length of the
Texas-Mexico border.

But these issues are potentially treacherous for Mr. Perry in early-nominating
states -- Iowa, New Hampshire and South Carolina -- where the populations are
largely non-Hispanic but keenly aware of a growing number of immigrants.

''We just looked so much like each other for so long, some people see new faces
and it scares them,'' said Eric Woolson, the communications director in Iowa for
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota, who called for a fence ''on every
mile, on every yard, on every foot'' of the border during Thursday night's
debate.

Illegal immigration scarcely registers as a top concern in polls of Republican
voters, and candidates rarely bring it up in their stump speeches. But at nearly
every campaign rally an audience member or two, grumbling about ''anchor
babies,'' asks what a candidate plans to do. What many are looking for is to be
thrown a side of beef: fence the border, check workers' identifications, deport
the law-breakers.

In this context, Mr. Perry, who on almost all other issues has strong Tea Party
credentials, is a Lone Star anomaly.

He has called building a 1,200-mile fence the length of the border ''idiocy''
and opposes requiring businesses to use the federal E-Verify program to check an
employee's immigration status.

The legislation making Texas the first state to allow high school graduates who
are not here legally to attend public colleges on in-state tuition was passed
with the endorsement of business groups.

''The future of the business community is having a well-educated work force,''
said Charles C. Foster, chairman of immigration issues for the Greater Houston
Partnership, a business coalition that supports the law. ''We realize the
trajectory of Texas is no longer going to be an industrial, steel-age state.
It's going to be based on brain power.''

The law inspired other states to imitate it, including California and New York.
In Texas about 22,700 students benefited from the tuition discount through 2010,
according to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board.

''Any governor of a border state always sees things differently,'' said Lionel
Sosa, who was a consultant on Hispanic media to the campaigns of two earlier
Republican presidential candidates, George W. Bush and John McCain, each
border-state moderates on these issues.

''Somebody like Perry already has a record with immigration, and it's hurting
him now,'' he said. ''If he happens to make it all the way to the end, it'll
help him with the Latino vote'' in the general election.

In the meantime, though, he is being flayed by rivals. Mr. Romney calls the
tuition discount a ''subsidy'' worth as much as $100,000 to a four-year student
and a ''magnet'' to illegal residents.

Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, called Mr. Perry ''soft on
illegal immigration'' during the debate, in Orlando, Fla., and framed the issue
as a burden to taxpayers. ''Why should they be given preferential treatment as
an illegal in this country?'' he said to cheers from the audience.

The issue is clearly hurting Mr. Perry, said Larry Sabato, director of the
Center for Politics at the University of Virginia. ''He was sold as the
conservative alternative to Mitt Romney. Now Romney has gotten an immigration
baton to use on Perry's head. It's manna from heaven for Romney. He's hitting
him from the right.''

Political analysts in Texas noted that in the last couple of years, as the
Republican Party nationally has marched rightward on immigration, Mr. Perry has
also. This year he tried to have the Legislature prohibit ''sanctuary cities''
that restrain the police from asking detainees about immigration status, but the
measure failed after Republican business leaders opposed it.

Although Mr. Perry's opponents are vying to define themselves as hard-liners on
illegal immigration, there is danger for an eventual nominee who has alienated
Hispanic voters in the process.

They are a crucial voting bloc in an increasing number of swing states, from
Florida to Colorado to New Mexico. If Republicans cannot attract around 40
percent of the Hispanic vote, they will be in trouble, Mr. Sabato said.

''Like most Americans, the No. 1 issue to Latinos is jobs and the economy,''
said Alfonso Aguilar, executive director of the Latino Partnership for
Conservative Principles in Washington.

''If you say something that antagonizes Latino voters during the primary and
become the nominee, you're going to have a hard time. Latinos are not going to
forget.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama's Shame: A harsh immigration law spreads fear and punishes the
vulnerable

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 508 words


Only about 3.5 percent of Alabama's population is foreign-born, according to the
Census Bureau. Undocumented immigrants made up roughly 4.2 percent of its work
force in 2010, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. But the drafters of
Alabama's harsh immigration law wanted to turn their state into the country's
most hostile territory for illegal immigrants. They are succeeding, as many of
Alabama's most vulnerable residents can attest.

The law went into effect over the weekend, after being largely upheld by a
federal district judge. Volunteers on an immigrant-rights group's hot line said
that since then they have received more than 1,000 calls from pregnant women
afraid to go to the hospital, crime victims afraid to go the police, parents
afraid to send their children to school.

School superintendents and principals across the state confirm that attendance
of Hispanic children has dropped noticeably since the word went out that school
officials are now required to check the immigration status of newly enrolled
students and their parents.

That rule is part of the law's sweeping attempt to curtail the rights and
complicate the lives of people without papers, making them unable to enter
contracts, find jobs, rent homes or access government services. In other words,
to be isolated, unemployable, poor, defenseless and uneducated.

The education crackdown is particularly senseless and unconstitutional. In 1982,
the Supreme Court found that all children living in the United States have the
right to a public education, whatever their immigration status. The justices'
reasoning was shaped not by compassion but practicality: it does the country no
good to perpetuate an uneducated underclass.

Officials in Alabama -- some well meaning, others less so -- insisted that
nothing in the new law is intended to deny children an education. School
districts, they noted, are supposed to collect only numbers of children without
papers, not names.

''I don't know where the misinformation's coming from,'' Alabama's interim state
school superintendent, Larry Craven, told NPR. ''If you have difficulty
understanding the language anyway, then who knows what they're being told?''
With comments like that, it's not surprising that any of ''them'' would be
frightened.

The Obama administration was right to sue to try to stop the Alabama law. It
needs to press ahead with its appeal of the ruling and challenge similar laws in
Utah, Georgia, Indiana and South Carolina.

President Obama needs to show stronger leadership in defending core American
values in the face of the hostility that has overtaken Alabama and so many other
states. He can start by scrapping the Secure Communities program, which
encourages local immigration dragnets and reinforces the false notion that most
undocumented immigrants pose a threat to this country's security.

As for Alabama, one has to wonder at such counterproductive cruelty. Do
Alabamans want children too frightened to go to school? Or pregnant women too
frightened to seek care? Whom could that possibly benefit?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 28, 2011 Tuesday

A Second Try on Immigration Act

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 447 words



HIGHLIGHT: Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois will try again to win passage
of the Dream Act, which would help the children of some illegal immigrants.


Senator Richard J. Durbin spoke to a crowd of capped and gowned young people,
pumping then up with encouraging words as sustenance for their journey ahead.
"When I look around this room, I see America's future," he said.

But the remarks of Mr. Durbin, an Illinois Democrat, were not delivered to a
crowd waiting to hear "Pomp and Circumstance." Instead, he was speaking Tuesday
to an overflowing audience of students and supporters at a hearing of the Senate
Judiciary Committee's immigration subcommittee to discuss bringing the
legislation known as Dream Act back before Congress.

Mr. Durbin has long championed the measure, which provides a six-year path to
permanent residency for some children of illegal immigrants. Under the act, the
specifically defined group of people can attain full United States citizenship
if they keep their criminal record clean, graduate high school and attend
college or join the military.

The measure was sidelined by a Senate filibuster in September, but Mr. Durbin is
hoping it can be passed this year with help from key members of the Obama
administration, including Janet Napolitano, secretary of Homeland Security, and
Arne Duncan, education secretary, both of whom testified in support of the bill
Tuesday.

Without the act, many of the high school graduates attending the hearing will
not have a shot at a college commencement.

"It goes against our national interest to deny these students a college
education," Mr. Duncan said, predicting that their personal enrichment will help
supply America's need for citizens who can out-innovate competitors. Citing
figures provided by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Mr. Duncan
added that legalizing some of the children of illegal immigrants could add $1.7
billion to the economy over 10 years.

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, pressed Ms. Napolitano on a
stipulation in the act that would give her the authority to waive educational
requirements for some Dream Act applicants on a case-by-case basis.

He said he was uncomfortable with that stipulation, as well as another that
allows participants to be convicted of two misdemeanors before being expelled
from the program. "In New York, sexual assault of a minor in the third degree is
a misdemeanor," he said.

She responded by telling Mr. Cornyn that, given the limits of her department's
budget, deporting teenagers who have spent much of their lives in the United
States and hope to enroll in college "does not fall within our enforcement
priorities."

     ·    Senate Democrats Reintroduce Dream Act
     ·    Napolitano Backs Immigration Bill
     ·    Reid Trying Again on Immigration Bill
     ·    New Senate Leadership, a Lot Like the Old
     ·    Sunday Breakfast Menu: Aug. 9


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              28 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Will They Stay or Will They Go?

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 407 words



HIGHLIGHT: Homeland Security will focus deportations on illegal immigrants with
criminal backgrounds-but also plans to keep the removal rate steady. How is that
possible?


Back in June senior officials in the Department of Homeland Security announced a
new deportation policy: They would encourage prosecutors to use more discretion,
to focus on removing illegal immigrants who'd committed serious crimes. This was
a good thing, but hardly an epic breakthrough, since they should have been doing
that all along.

Now comes an article in The Times, which says that, on Thursday, the
administration will actually start enacting this policy with an "accelerated
triage of the court docket." It's about time, especially for the many foreigners
whose only transgression is being present in the United States without legal
status-a civil violation.

But I have reason to think the administration isn't being totally
straightforward here. The Obama team has deported nearly 400,000 immigrants in
each of the last three years. And according to The Times, Homeland Security
Secretary Janet Napolitano said that, even with the new policy, those numbers
would not decrease.

I suppose that's theoretically possible -- scale back the removal of
non-criminals, ramp up the removal of those who pose a security risk by the same
degree. But here's the issue: As the American Prospect noted in April, 60
percent of deportations between October 2008 and February 2011 were of
non-criminals or low-priority criminals (such as those arrested in the distant
past for a misdemeanor). Also in April, Manhattan Borough President Scott
Stringer wrote in a Times Op-Ed that only about half of the thousands of
immigrants detained on Rikers Island in New York have a criminal record.

See the problem? I'm not terrific in math, but how is Homeland Security going to
remove an extra 240,000 immigrants (60 percent of 400,000) with criminal
backgrounds ? How will they find these people?

So there are two possibilities, as I see it. Homeland Security has no intention
of keeping the number of removals at 400,000 annually, and Secretary Napolitano
is trying to appease hard-line anti-immigration conservatives. (Whom she will
never succeed in appeasing and who, by the way, are never going to vote for her
boss in 2012.) Or, Homeland Security has no intention of truly focusing its
efforts on criminals.

It's a little strange for me to say I'm hoping the Secretary of Homeland
Security is just blowing smoke for political reasons, but I am. Because Option B
is an extremely bad idea.


     ·    Opinion Report: Civil Rights in Alabama
     ·    Oppression Is Not a State's Right


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              29 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Are Focus Of Harsh Bill In Alabama

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 622 words


Alabama has passed a sweeping bill to crack down on illegal immigrants that both
supporters and opponents call the toughest of its kind in the country, going
well beyond a law Arizona passed last year that caused a furor there.

The measure was passed by large margins in the Alabama Senate and the House,
both Republican-controlled, in votes on Thursday. Governor Robert Bentley, a
Republican, is expected to sign the bill into law.

''Alabama is now the new No. 1 state for immigration enforcement,'' said Kris
Kobach, a constitutional lawyer who is secretary of state in Kansas. He has
helped write many state bills to curtail illegal immigration, including
Alabama's.

''This bill invites discrimination into every aspect of the lives of people in
Alabama,'' said Cecillia Wang, director of the immigrants' rights project of the
American Civil Liberties Union, which has brought legal challenges against
several state immigration-control laws. Calling Alabama's bill ''outrageous and
blatantly unconstitutional,'' Ms. Wang said, ''We will take action if the
governor signs it.''

The Alabama bill includes a provision similar to one that stirred controversy in
Arizona, authorizing state and local police officers to ask about the
immigration status of anyone they stop based on a ''reasonable suspicion'' the
person is an illegal immigrant. Federal courts have suspended most of that
Arizona law.

Alabama's bill goes beyond Arizona's. It bars illegal immigrants from enrolling
in any public college after high school. It obliges public schools to determine
the immigration status of all students, requiring parents of foreign-born
students to report the immigration status of their children.

The bill requires Alabama's public schools to publish figures on the number of
immigrants -- both legal and illegal -- who are enrolled and on any costs
associated with the education of illegal immigrant children.

The bill, known as H.B. 56, also makes it a crime to knowingly rent housing to
an illegal immigrant. It bars businesses from taking tax deductions on wages
paid to unauthorized immigrants.

''This is a jobs-creation bill for Americans,'' said Representative Micky
Hammon, a Republican who was a chief sponsor of the bill. ''We really want to
prevent illegal immigrants from coming to Alabama and to prevent those who are
here from putting down roots,'' he said.

The Alabama bill comes at the end of a legislative season when many states
wrestled with immigration crackdown proposals. Measures focusing only on
enforcement failed in 16 states, according to a tally by the National
Immigration Forum in Washington, a group opposing such laws.

In May, Georgia adopted a tough enforcement law, which civil rights groups filed
a lawsuit on Thursday seeking to stop. Proponents of state immigration
enforcement laws won a major victory last week when the Supreme Court upheld a
2007 law in Arizona imposing penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants.

Alabama's law includes some provisions similar to the Arizona statute that
courts rejected as incursions on legal terrain reserved for the federal
government. But Michael Hethmon, general counsel of the Immigration Reform Law
Institute in Washington, said the Alabama bill was a compendium of measures
against illegal immigrants that his group had tested in other states. Mr.
Hethmon's group is the legal arm of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which seeks to reduce immigration.

The bill requires all Alabama employers to use a federal system, E-Verify, to
confirm the legal status of all workers. The measure also makes it a state crime
for an immigrant to fail to carry a document proving legal status, and makes it
a crime for anyone to transport an illegal immigrant.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 18, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pledges to Raise Deportation Threshold

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 858 words


Moving to repair an immigration enforcement program that has drawn rising
opposition from governors and police chiefs, senior immigration officials on
Friday announced steps they said would focus the program more closely on
deporting immigrants convicted of serious crimes.

In unveiling the changes, John Morton, the head of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, said the deportation program would continue to expand as planned in
order to be operating nationwide by 2013, despite criticism from many police
chiefs and from the governors of Illinois, New York and Massachusetts, who
sought to withdraw their states.

But in making course corrections to the program, known as Secure Communities,
Mr. Morton acknowledged the groundswell of local resistance, including
opposition from Latino and immigrant groups, to an effort that is central to
President Obama's approach to controlling illegal immigration. Critics said the
program was casting too wide a net and had strayed from its goal of bolstering
public safety by expelling illegal immigrants who committed the most dangerous
crimes.

In a fix likely to have broad practical effect, Mr. Morton issued a memorandum
that greatly expanded the factors immigration authorities can take into account
in deciding to defer or cancel deportations. Agents are now formally urged to
consider how long an illegal immigrant has been in the United States, or whether
the immigrant was brought here illegally as a child and is studying in high
school or college.

In practice, the memorandum gives immigration agents authority to postpone or
cancel, on a case by case basis, deportations of illegal immigrant students who
might have been eligible for legal status under a bill stalled in Congress that
is known as the Dream Act.

The authorities are also instructed to give ''particular care and
consideration'' to veterans and active duty members of the military, especially
if they have been in combat, and to their close relatives.

Mr. Morton also expanded the authority of federal lawyers who handle cases in
immigration courts to dismiss deportation proceedings against immigrants without
serious criminal records.

Also on Friday, Mr. Obama extended the deployment of some 1,200 National Guard
troops who are backing up immigration agents along the Southwest border.

Under Secure Communities, tens of thousands of immigrants who were here
illegally but had not been convicted of any crime were detained by local law
enforcement and swept into deportation proceedings. Until now, once immigration
agents in the field had started a deportation, government lawyers had little
authority to decide which cases were worth pursuing in immigration court. Many
immigration violations are civil, not criminal, offenses.

In the Secure Communities program, fingerprints of everyone who is booked into
jail are checked against F.B.I. criminal databases, as has long been routine,
and also against Department of Homeland Security databases, which record
immigration violations. Homeland Security officials report results of
fingerprint checks back to the arresting police departments, and federal
immigration agents determine whether to detain the immigrants for deportation.

''We believe in this program, we think it's the right program, and we intend to
continue it,'' Mr. Morton said on Friday. ''But obviously we are listening to
the concerns raised by the governors, members of Congress and community
groups.''

Mr. Morton also said he would form an advisory commission of police chiefs,
sheriffs, state and local prosecutors, immigration agents, and immigrant
advocates. The first task of the commission would be to assess, within 45 days,
another fix Mr. Morton is considering.

Currently all immigrants who are flagged in a Secure Communities fingerprint
check can be detained for deportation by Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents from the time they are first booked into jail. Mr. Morton said that under
his proposal, illegal immigrants who were arrested for minor traffic offenses,
like driving without a license, and other minor misdemeanors, would not be
detained for deportation until they were convicted of those crimes.

Mr. Morton also issued new guidelines he said would ensure that illegal
immigrants detained by the police who were victims of domestic violence and
witnesses to crimes would not be deported.

Immigration lawyers praised the new ground rules. ''If these standards are
applied consistently, it would allow ICE to focus government resources on
dangerous criminals and national security risks to make America safer, a goal we
all share,'' said David Leopold, the outgoing president of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

But several community groups rejected the changes as cosmetic tweaks that would
do little to slow deportations that they said had separated immigrant families
without reducing crime.

''This program is riddled with flaws and the announcement today acknowledges
that,'' said Chris Newman, general counsel of the National Day Laborer
Organizing Network. He said the program should be suspended until the Homeland
Security inspector general completes a review later this year.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 4, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

It Gets Even Worse: New anti-immigrant laws are cruel, racist and
counterproductive

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 507 words


If you thought the do-it-yourself anti-immigrant schemes couldn't get any more
repellent, you were wrong. New laws in Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina are
following -- and in some ways outdoing -- Arizona's attempt to engineer the mass
expulsion of the undocumented, no matter the damage to the Constitution, public
safety, local economies and immigrant families.

The laws vary in their details but share a common strategy: to make it
impossible for people without papers to live without fear.

They give new powers to local police untrained in immigration law. They force
businesses to purge work forces and schools to check students' immigration
status. And they greatly increase the danger of unreasonable searches, false
arrests, racial profiling and other abuses, not just against immigrants, but
anyone who may look like some officer's idea of an illegal immigrant.

The laws empower local police officers to demand the documents of people they
meet, and to detain those they suspect are here illegally. That means they can
make warrantless arrests for assumed civil immigration violations, a stunning
abuse of power.

The laws also make it illegal to give a ride to the undocumented, so a son could
land in jail for driving his mother to the supermarket, or a church volunteer
for ferrying families to a soup kitchen. They require businesses to check
employees against the error-plagued federal E-Verify database, and to fire those
who are flagged as unauthorized. Once the purge takes hold in agriculture, there
will be no one left to pick onions, peaches and cotton. The immigrant labor
shortage is already being felt in Georgia, where crops are rotting and the
governor has called for using jobless ex-convicts in the fields.

Alabama's law is the most extreme. It forces public school districts to
determine the immigration status of students and their parents and report the
data to the state. Alabama still can't bar them from enrolling, since the
Supreme Court declared in Plyler v. Doe that all children are entitled to a
public education. The state's law seems designed to challenge that ruling, as it
turns school officials into de facto immigration agents and impels frightened
parents to keep their children home.

It has long been clear that America is suffering for lack of a well-functioning
immigration system that better protects workers and families, promotes
lawfulness at the border and in the workplace, and gives hardworking people a
path to legality.

Congress's inaction has let the states run amok with their own destructive
ideas. Supporters insist they are only trying to enforce the law. But trying to
catch and deport 11 million people is lunacy. The damage to this country -- its
citizens and its laws -- is enormous.

Civil rights organizations are suing or threatening to sue to block these
noxious state laws. So far federal courts have enjoined parts of bad local laws
in Arizona, Georgia, Utah and Indiana. President Obama's Department of Justice
has sued Arizona but not the other states. It needs to fight harder.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 19, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fewer Youths To Be Deported In New Policy

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR; Julia Preston contributed reporting from Hershey, Pa.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words


WASHINGTON -- The Obama administration announced Thursday that it would suspend
deportation proceedings against many illegal immigrants who pose no threat to
national security or public safety.

The new policy is expected to help thousands of illegal immigrants who came to
the United States as young children, graduated from high school and want to go
on to college or serve in the armed forces.

White House and immigration officials said they would exercise ''prosecutorial
discretion'' to focus enforcement efforts on cases involving criminals and
people who have flagrantly violated immigration laws.

Under the new policy, the secretary of homeland security, Janet Napolitano, can
provide relief, on a case-by-case basis, to young people who are in the country
illegally but pose no threat to national security or to the public safety.

The decision would, through administrative action, help many intended
beneficiaries of legislation that has been stalled in Congress for a decade. The
sponsor of the legislation, Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2
Senate Democrat, has argued that ''these young people should not be punished for
their parents' mistakes.''

The action would also bolster President Obama's reputation with Latino voters as
he heads into the 2012 election. Just a week ago the leaders of major Hispanic
organizations criticized his record, saying in a report that Mr. Obama and
Congress had ''overpromised and underdelivered'' on immigration and other issues
of concern to Latino voters, a major force in some swing states.

The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Lamar Smith,
Republican of Texas, denounced the new policy.

''The Obama administration has again made clear its plan to grant backdoor
amnesty to illegal immigrants,'' Mr. Smith said. ''The administration should
enforce immigration laws, not look for ways to ignore them. Officials should
remember the oath of office they took to uphold the Constitution and the laws of
the land.''

White House officials emphasized that they were not granting relief to a whole
class of people, but would review cases one by one, using new standards meant to
distinguish low- and high-priority cases.

''The president has said on numerous occasions that it makes no sense to expend
our enforcement resources on low-priority cases, such as individuals'' who were
brought to this country as young children and know no other home, Ms. Napolitano
said in a letter to Mr. Durbin.

She said that low-priority cases were ''clogging immigration court dockets'' and
diverting enforcement resources away from individuals who pose a threat to
public safety.

Mr. Durbin said he believed the new policy would stop the deportation of most
people who would qualify for relief under his bill, known as the Dream Act
(formally the Development, Relief and Education for Alien Minors Act).

Some experts have estimated that more than two million people might be eligible
to apply for legal status under the Dream Act. Mr. Durbin's office estimates
that 100,000 to 200,000 could eventually earn citizenship, though the numbers
are uncertain.

Under the new policy, the government will review 300,000 cases of people in
deportation proceedings to identify those who might qualify for relief and those
who should be expelled as soon as possible.

White House officials said the new policy could help illegal immigrants with
family members in the United States. The White House is interpreting ''family''
to include partners of lesbian, gay and bisexual people.

Richard Socarides, a New York lawyer who was an adviser to President Bill
Clinton on gay issues, said, ''The new policy will end, at least for now, the
deportations of gay people legally married to their same-sex American citizen
partners, and it may extend to other people in same-sex partnerships.''

J. Kevin Appleby, director of migration policy at the United States Conference
of Catholic Bishops, said the initiative would keep immigrant families together.
''It is consistent with the teaching of the church that human rights should be
respected, regardless of an immigrant's legal status,'' he said.

Cecilia Munoz, a White House official who helped develop the new policy, said
officials would suspend deportation proceedings in low-priority cases that, for
example, involve ''military veterans and the spouses of active-duty military
personnel.''

Stephen W. Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at Cornell, said the new
policy could also benefit ''illegal immigrants who were stopped for traffic
violations and thrown into deportation proceedings, as well as people whose only
violation of immigration law is that they stayed beyond the expiration of their
visas or worked here illegally.'' Ms. Napolitano said her agency and the Justice
Department would do the case-by-case review of all people in deportation
proceedings.

Those who qualify for relief can apply for permission to work in the United
States and will probably receive it, officials said.

The new policy ''will not provide categorical relief for any group'' and ''will
not alleviate the need for passage of the Dream Act or for larger reforms to our
immigration laws,'' Ms. Napolitano said.

People in deportation proceedings stand to benefit most from the new policy. The
new enforcement priorities also make it less likely that the government will
begin such proceedings in the future against people who have no criminal records
and pose no threat to national security.

White House officials said the new policy ratified guidance on ''prosecutorial
discretion'' recently issued by John Morton, the director of immigration and
customs enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security.

The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, praised the new
directive, saying it would allow federal agents to ''focus on serious felons,
gang members and individuals who are a national security threat, rather than
college students and veterans who have risked their lives for our country.''

Roy H. Beck, the president of Numbers USA, a nonprofit group that wants to
reduce legal and illegal immigration, said he could understand the decision to
defer deportation in some cases. But he said the decision to grant work permits
was distressing.

''This is a jobs issue,'' Mr. Beck said. ''The president is taking sides,
putting illegal aliens ahead of unemployed Americans.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois sponsored the immigration
bill known as the Dream Act. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
(A15)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 23, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Issues New Deportation Policy's First Reprieves

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1047 words


The call came in the morning to the lawyer representing Manuel Guerra, an
illegal immigrant from Mexico living in Florida who had been caught in a
tortuous and seemingly failing five-year court fight against deportation.

With the news early Thursday that federal immigration authorities had canceled
his deportation, Mr. Guerra became one of the first illegal immigrants in the
country to see results from a policy the Obama administration unveiled in
Washington that day. It could lead to the suspension in coming months of
deportation proceedings against tens of thousands of immigrants.

Administration officials and immigrant advocates said Monday that the plan
offered the first real possibility since President Obama took office --
promising immigrants and Latinos he would overhaul the law to bring illegal
immigrants into the system -- for large numbers of those immigrants to be spared
from detention and deportation.

For Mr. Guerra, who said he wants to remain in the United States to study to
become a Roman Catholic priest, the news ''was like something from above, from
heaven. I don't want to go back to Mexico,'' he said, ''and I've been fighting
this for five years.''

A working group from the Homeland Security and Justice Departments met Friday to
initiate a review of about 300,000 deportation cases currently before the
immigration courts. Under the policy, immigration authorities will use powers of
prosecutorial discretion in existing law to suspend the deportations of most
immigrants who, although they have committed immigration violations (which
generally are civil offenses), have not been convicted of crimes.

In particular, officials will look to halt deportations of longtime residents
with clean police records who came here illegally when they were children, or
are close family of military service members, or are parents or spouses of
American citizens.

''This is a great first step,'' said Hector E. Sanchez, a Hispanic labor leader
who oversees immigration policy for the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, a
coalition of the country's major Latino groups. ''We really need to see action
on a common-sense approach to immigration and not just promises.''

Mr. Obama had been facing increasingly vocal protests from disappointed Latino
and immigrant groups after he made no progress in Congress on his immigration
overhaul agenda, and enforcement authorities set a modern record for
deportations, with nearly 800,000 foreigners removed in the past two years.

Homeland Security officials said Monday that their goal is to quickly identify
noncriminals on swollen immigration court dockets and close those cases,
clearing the way for speedier removals of gang members, drug traffickers or
foreigners who repeatedly return after being deported. Wait times for a hearing
in immigration courts can now be as long as 18 months.

A senior Homeland Security official said that deportations would be canceled
case by case. While many immigrants in those cases will be eligible for work
permits, he said, employment authorization will come only after a separate
process.

The immigrants will remain in a sort of legal limbo, not vulnerable to
deportation but with no positive immigration status, which can be conferred only
by Congress.

But White House officials and Congressional Democrats said they expected the
measures would lead to relief during the coming year for virtually all young
illegal immigrants facing deportation who might have won legal status under a
bill called the Dream Act. A proposal to benefit illegal immigrant high school
graduates who came to the country before they were 16, it failed in the Senate
last year.

Mr. Guerra, now 27 and living in Indiantown, Fla., is one of those immigrants.
He said he came to this country to escape a violent gang in Mexico. His lawyer,
Richard A. Hujber, said Mr. Guerra's efforts to straighten out his legal status
went wrong because they were originally mishandled by an accountant claiming
falsely to be a lawyer.

In recent years, even though he was undocumented, Mr. Guerra has been a Florida
leader of the illegal immigrant student movement, helping to organize a protest
walk by four students to Washington and a mock university held by students
wearing mortarboards on Capitol Hill.

''That was so big to me, all these students organizing a school so we could go
without our papers,'' Mr. Guerra said. If he can obtain a work permit, he and
Mr. Hujber said, he could be legally eligible for the first time to apply for
financial aid that would allow him to continue his religious studies.

The administration's announcement also had an immediate impact on a case in
Denver, where an immigration judge on Friday postponed the deportation of Sujey
Pando, a lesbian from Mexico legally married in Iowa to an American from
Colorado, Violeta Pando. Although federal law does not recognize same-sex
marriages, administration officials said they would consider same-sex spouses as
''family'' in their review of deportation cases.

The judge, Mimi Tsankov, cited the flux in laws and policies affecting same-sex
cases in delaying a decision on Sujey Pando's deportation at least until
January, said Lavi Soloway, a lawyer for the couple.

Some Latino Democrats who have been deeply critical of Mr. Obama on immigration
issues praised the policy shift.

''This is the Barack Obama I have been waiting for, that Latino and immigrant
voters helped put in office to fight for sensible immigration policies,'' said
Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois, a Latino leader on immigration
issues who has been arrested twice in protests in front of the White House.

However, the announcement appeared to signal an end to efforts by the White
House to court some of its Republican opponents, with administration officials
acknowledging those efforts have failed and there is little chance for broad
immigration legislation to pass before elections next year.

Republican leaders reacted to Mr. Obama's new policy by stepping up their
rejection of his approach. Representative Peter T. King of New York, chairman of
the Homeland Security Committee in the House, said the president was making ''a
blatant attempt to grant amnesty to potentially millions of illegal aliens in
this country,'' which he called ''totally unacceptable.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Florida, Manuel Guerra, center, has been fighting deportation
for five years. His case was among the first suspended. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON
HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 29, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Nation's Cruelest Immigration Law: Religious leaders sue to block Alabama's
sweeping and punitive new regime

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 553 words


The Alabama Legislature opened its session on March 1 on a note of humility and
compassion. In the Senate, a Christian pastor asked God to grant members
''wisdom and discernment'' to do what is right. ''Not what's right in their own
eyes,'' he said, ''but what's right according to your word.'' Soon after, both
houses passed, and the governor signed, the country's cruelest, most unforgiving
immigration law.

The law, which takes effect Sept. 1, is so inhumane that four Alabama church
leaders -- an Episcopal bishop, a Methodist bishop and a Roman Catholic
archbishop and bishop -- have sued to block it, saying it criminalizes acts of
Christian compassion. It is a sweeping attempt to terrorize undocumented
immigrants in every aspect of their lives, and to make potential criminals of
anyone who may work or live with them or show them kindness.

It effectively makes it a crime to be an undocumented immigrant in Alabama, by
criminalizing working, renting a home and failing to comply with federal
registration laws that are largely obsolete. It nullifies any contracts when one
party is an undocumented immigrant. It requires the police to check the papers
of people they suspect to be here illegally.

The new regime does not spare American citizens. Businesses that knowingly
employ illegal immigrants will lose their licenses. Public school officials will
be required to determine students' immigration status and report back to the
state. Anyone knowingly ''concealing, harboring or shielding'' an illegal
immigrant could be charged with a crime, say for renting someone an apartment or
driving her to church or the doctor.

The American Civil Liberties Union and the Justice Department have also sued,
calling the law an unconstitutional intrusion on the federal government's
authority to write and enforce immigration laws. The A.C.L.U. warns that the law
would trample people's fundamental rights to speak and travel freely,
effectively deny children the chance to go to school and expose people to
harassment and racial profiling.

These arguments have been made before, in opposition to similar, if less
sweeping, laws passed in Arizona, Utah, Indiana and Georgia. What is remarkable
in Alabama is the separate lawsuit by the four church leaders, who say the law
violates their religious freedoms to perform acts of charity without regard to
the immigration status of those they minister to or help.

''The law,'' Archbishop Thomas Rodi of Mobile said in The Times, ''attacks our
core understanding of what it means to be a church.''

You'd think that any state would think twice before embracing a law that so
vividly brings to mind the Fugitive Slave Act, the brutal legal and
law-enforcement apparatus of the Jim Crow era, and the civil-rights struggle led
by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. But waves of anti-immigrant hostility
have made many in this country forget who and what we are.

Congress was once on the brink of an ambitious bipartisan reform that would have
enabled millions of immigrants stranded by the failed immigration system to get
right with the law. This sensible policy has been abandoned. We hope the church
leaders can waken their fellow Alabamans to the moral damage done when
forgiveness and justice are so ruthlessly denied. We hope Washington and the
rest of the country will also listen.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Enforce Immigration Laws

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 279 words


To the Editor:

''The Nation's Cruelest Immigration Law'' (editorial, Aug. 29), about a lawsuit
by four church leaders against new restrictions by Alabama on undocumented
immigrants, says that those who support enforcing immigration laws ''have made
many in this country forget who and what we are.'' Indeed, I think The New York
Times seems to have forgotten who and what we are.

The United States was founded on law and justice. The only earthly hope of
protecting the equality and dignity of all mankind is with a rule of law that
holds both the janitor and the senator completely equal in both benefit and
constraint. This was the founders' dream.

We are a nation of immigrants, but we are a nation of legal immigrants. Failing
to enforce our immigration laws encourages more illegal immigration, which
unjustly prolongs the wait of legal immigrants who are playing by the book and
who have often waited years to become American citizens.

The Obama administration has arrogantly refused to enforce existing immigration
laws, and states have been left with no option but to enforce the laws and
protect their citizens themselves. Indeed, in the first half of this year alone,
nearly 250 new immigration laws and resolutions were enacted in 40 states.

Enforcing the law is not mean-spirited. Rather, it is a noble element of the
American spirit. Enforcing immigration laws protects American lives, establishes
a fair process for legal immigrants in search of freedom and ensures that
America remains the beacon of freedom for the entire family of mankind.

TRENT FRANKS Peoria, Ariz., Aug. 30, 2011

The writer, a Republican, is a member of the House of Representatives from
Arizona.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama Wins in Ruling On Its Immigration Law

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1060 words


A federal judge on Wednesday upheld most of the sections of Alabama's
far-reaching immigration law that had been challenged by the Obama
administration, including portions that had been blocked in other states.

The decision, by Judge Sharon Lovelace Blackburn of Federal District Court in
Birmingham, makes it much more likely that the fate of the recent flurry of
state laws against illegal immigration will eventually be decided by the Supreme
Court. It also means that Alabama now has by far the strictest such law of any
state.

''Today Judge Blackburn upheld the majority of our law,'' Gov. Robert Bentley
said in a brief statement he delivered outside the State Capitol in Montgomery.
''With those parts that were upheld, we have the strongest immigration law in
the country.''

The judge did issue a preliminary injunction against several sections of the
law, agreeing with the government's case that they pre-empted federal law. She
blocked a broad provision that outlawed the harboring or transporting of illegal
immigrants and another that barred illegal immigrants from enrolling in or
attending public universities.

The governor, in his statement, said he believed even the sections that were
temporarily enjoined on Wednesday would eventually be upheld, and added that the
state would consider appealing if that did not happen.

For the most part, Judge Blackburn, who was appointed by the elder President
George Bush, disagreed with the Justice Department's arguments, including those
that had been successful in challenges to laws in Arizona and Georgia.

The judge upheld a section that requires state and local law enforcement
officials to try to verify a person's immigration status during routine traffic
stops or arrests, if ''a reasonable suspicion'' exists that the person is in the
country illegally. And she ruled that a section that criminalized the ''willful
failure'' of a person in the country illegally to carry federal immigration
papers did not pre-empt federal law.

In both cases, she rejected the reasoning of district and appeals courts that
had blocked similar portions of Arizona's law. Legal experts expected the
Justice Department to appeal.

''The department is reviewing the decision to determine next steps,'' Xochitl
Hinojosa, a department spokeswoman, said in a statement. ''We will continue to
evaluate state immigration-related laws and will not hesitate to bring suit if,
in fact, a state creates its own immigration policy or enforces state laws in a
manner that interferes with federal immigration law.''

The Alabama law was the latest, and broadest, of the state laws against illegal
immigration, going further than one passed in Arizona.

While Alabama is estimated to have a relatively small population of people who
are in the country illegally, the numbers have been growing.

Acting on a pledge that they would crack down on illegal immigration,
Republicans passed the bill when they won a supermajority in the State
Legislature in the 2010 elections. Mr. Bentley signed it into law in June.

Del Marsh, the Republican president pro tem of the Alabama Senate, said in a
statement after Wednesday's ruling, ''Our goal has always been to make sure
Alabama jobs and taxpayer-funded resources are going to legal Alabama residents,
and Judge Blackburn's ruling is a significant win for this cause.''

All summer, rallies for and against the law have been taking place throughout
the state. Farmers and even the state agriculture commissioner have raised
concerns about the law's effect on farms, sheriffs have condemned it as too
onerous for financially hurting counties and others have worried that it could
seriously hinder the state's efforts to rebuild after last April's devastating
tornadoes.

The law's backers argued that most of the concerns arose out of a misreading of
the law that they believed in some cases was intentional.

The judge ruled on three suits challenging the law on Wednesday, one brought by
the federal government, another by a group of church leaders and another brought
by civil rights groups.

She dismissed the suit brought by church leaders, who had argued that the law
prevented them from carrying out crucial duties of their ministry, concluding
that they did not have standing to challenge one part of the law and that she
had addressed the other challenge in her ruling on the federal law.

Judge Blackburn agreed with the arguments of the civil rights groups on several
sections or subsections of the law, but did not address many of their arguments
because they overlapped with those put forth in the Justice Department's suit.

''We're really disappointed,'' said Andre Segura of the American Civil Liberties
Union, which represents plaintiffs in one of the suits. ''We already know that
this is going to cause a lot of problems in Alabama.''

The civil rights groups are planning an appeal.

Among the other sections Judge Blackburn upheld: one that nullifies any
contracts entered into by an illegal immigrant; another that forbids any
transaction between an illegal immigrant and any division of the state, a
proscription that has already led to the denial of a Montgomery man's
application for water and sewage service; and, most controversially, a section
that requires elementary and secondary schools to determine the immigration
status of incoming students.

The civil rights groups challenged this last section on the ground that it would
unlawfully deter students from enrolling in school, even if it did not
explicitly allow schools to turn students away. The judge dismissed their
challenge for lack of standing, though she did not rule on the argument's
merits.

Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University, said: ''This decision
really gives the anti-immigration folks more of a victory than they've been
getting in other courts. There's a lot for them to be happy about.''

Still, Professor Spiro added, ''This is not the last word on the
constitutionality of this statute.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 30, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Thursday about a federal judge's ruling that upheld most of
Alabama's far-reaching immigration law misstated the role of the American Civil
Liberties Union in one of the lawsuits challenging the law. The A.C.L.U.
represents plaintiffs in the suit; it is not itself a plaintiff.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judge Sharon Blackburn upheld most parts of a measure.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KENT FAULK/THE BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA A.P.)
 Meagan Griffin in an immigration law protest on Wednesday near the campus of
the University of Alabama at Birmingham. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMIKA MOORE/THE
BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dream Act Becomes Law In California

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 197 words


SACRAMENTO (AP) -- Illegal immigrants can now apply for state-financed
scholarships and aid at state universities after Gov. Jerry Brown announced
Saturday that he had signed the second half of a legislative package focused on
such students.

The bill is the second half of the California Dream Act. Mr. Brown signed the
first half of the package in July, which approved private scholarships and loans
for students who are illegal immigrants.

Under current law, illegal immigrant students who have graduated from a
California high school and can prove they are on the path to legalize their
immigration status can pay resident tuition rates. The bill would allow these
students to also apply for state aid.

The contentious second half of the package requires that immigrant students meet
the same requirements as all other students applying for financial aid at state
universities but specifies that they qualify for financial aid only after all
the other legal residents have applied.

Critics say it undermines immigration laws and encourages illegal immigration.

The bill is different from the federal Dream Act, which includes a path to
citizenship for the children of illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Enforcement Is Next Task For Law on Wage Theft

BYLINE: By HALEIGH SVOBODA.

hsvoboda@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 25A

LENGTH: 507 words


HOUSTON -- For two years, Diego Gala, a Mexican immigrant in the country
illegally, worked five days a week cleaning a private school for less than
minimum wage. His employer refused to pay him overtime even when he was forced
to work on the weekends. Mr. Gala did not speak up, fearing deportation if he
reported his boss.

''I couldn't say nothing because I did not have papers,'' Mr. Gala said. ''So he
was like, 'If you say something, you can just get deported. I can call
immigration on you, or you can get fired.' ''

Mr. Gala, who was brought to the United States as a small child, grew up not
knowing his immigration status until it came time for him to find a job.
Workers' rights advocates say that is not unusual; wage theft is a major problem
in Texas, particularly among undocumented workers who do not push for their
rightful earnings for fear of drawing the attention of immigration officials.

During the 2011 legislative session, Texas lawmakers passed Senate Bill 1024,
which closed a loophole allowing employers to escape prosecution if they had
paid employees only a portion of the wages owed. But now that the law is in
effect, organizations and lawmakers in at least three Texas cities -- Austin, El
Paso and Houston -- are facing a new challenge: how to ensure that wage theft
prosecution is a priority.

In Austin, the Workers Defense Project, a workplace justice group, is
collaborating with Representative Eddie Rodriguez, Democrat of Austin, who
sponsored the bill in the House, to set up a meeting with Austin's police chief
and the district and county attorneys about enforcing the wage theft law. State
Senator Jose Rodriguez, Democrat of El Paso, who wrote the bill, set up a task
force in El Paso to work on putting the measure in effect.

In Houston, the Metropolitan Organization, an interfaith social justice
nonprofit group, plans to meet with local authorities and elected officials to
ensure that the law is enforced.

The challenge, particularly in urban centers, supporters say, is that district
attorneys and police departments may feel they have far more pressing crimes to
deal with.

And law enforcement officials will face a lingering problem: that underpaid
workers -- many of them immigrants -- will not feel brave enough to pursue
charges. In construction jobs, an estimated one in five workers experiences wage
theft, according to a legislative analysis of the Senate bill. Half of all day
laborers are believed to have suffered wage theft.

For the Metropolitan Organization, the wage theft law is not just about
employees' rights; it is a way to carry out immigration reform in the current
political climate. The Rev. Kevin Collins, the organization's co-chairman, says
that while illegal immigrants are less likely to report having their wages
stolen than United States citizens are, they will still benefit from the reform.

''It will start to change the culture,'' Mr. Collins said, alluding to the
employers of illegal immigrants. ''They'll start to say, 'I can't get away with
this like I thought I could.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Rev. Kevin Collins works to defend employees' rights.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY WENJING ZHANG FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Faults Border Patrol On Tactic Miles From Border

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 629 words


For years, Border Patrol agents have been boarding domestic trains and buses in
upstate New York, often many miles from the Canadian border, inspecting
passengers' IDs and arresting illegal immigrants.

Officials have said the checks are an important component of border security and
the fight against terrorism, noting that agents have jurisdiction to enforce
immigration laws within 100 miles of the border.

But immigrant-rights advocates have countered that the tactic is
unconstitutional and akin to racial profiling, and represents a shift from the
agency's principal mandate of policing the border.

Now a new report, to be released Wednesday and based on four years of Border
Patrol arrest data from the Rochester area, provides the first in-depth public
analysis of the practice.

About three-quarters of those detained during transportation raids between 2006
and 2009 had been in the country for at least a year, and 12 percent had been in
the country for more than 10 years, according to the report, which was prepared
by the New York Civil Liberties Union and the Immigrant Rights Clinic at New
York University's law school.

Only 1 percent of the people detained had been in the country for less than
three days, and less than 1 percent were caught as they entered the country. The
report used data released by Customs and Border Protection, an arm of the
Department of Homeland Security, through Freedom of Information Act litigation,
its authors said.

''The data paints a disturbing picture of an agency resorting to mission creep
in order to increase arrest rates, without regard for the costs and consequences
of its practices, including to its own mission to protect the border,'' the
report concludes.

Kerry Rogers, a spokeswoman for Customs and Border Protection, which oversees
the Border Patrol, said Tuesday that she could not comment on the report because
its authors had not yet provided a copy to the agency.

Last month, The Associated Press, citing unnamed Border Patrol sources, reported
that the agency had ''quietly'' stopped the transportation searches. Ms. Rogers
said Tuesday that while the agency had reduced its transportation checks as part
of a shift in strategy, it had not ceased them.

''It's not that we're stopping them,'' she said. ''We're just trying to be
smarter about how we do it.'' Agents are ''being more efficient'' with
intelligence and are cutting back on ''spot-checking,'' she said.

The change appears to be in line with a general shift in the Obama
administration's approach to immigration enforcement, which now focuses
deportation efforts on immigrants who have committed serious crimes or who are
deemed a threat to national security.

Udi Ofer, advocacy director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said a
decrease in transportation checks was ''a potentially positive development.''
But he said he still wanted to know how transportation checks would be carried
out, and expressed concern that agents would now shift their efforts ''further
from public view, like individual encounters on the street rather than on buses
and trains.''

In other findings, the report asserted that Border Patrol agents in the
Rochester region ''widely violate'' agency rules that require a person other
than the arresting officer to evaluate the case and determine the legal course
of action. In 77 percent of transportation arrests between 2006 and 2009, the
same officer conducted both the arrest and the evaluation, the report said.

Among a list of recommendations, the authors urged the agency to cease sweeps on
trains and buses and to limit its activities to the border. In addition, the
report said that if agents continued to engage in ''interior enforcement
operations,'' they should respond only to ''specific suspicion of unlawful
activity.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 10, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Recall Election Claims Arizona Anti-Immigration Champion

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE; Marc Lacey reported from Mesa,
and Katharine Q. Seelye from New York. Salvador Rodriguez contributed reporting
from Phoenix.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1148 words


MESA, Ariz. -- For years, Russell Pearce, Arizona's most powerful legislator and
the architect of its tough immigration law, has sought to make life so
uncomfortable for illegal immigrants in the state that they pack up and go.

But Mr. Pearce, known for his gruff, uncompromising manner, was the one sent
packing on Tuesday after disgruntled voters in this suburban neighborhood
outside Phoenix banded together to recall him from the State Senate and replace
him with a more moderate Republican.

''I'm grateful for the battles that we've won,'' said Mr. Pearce as election
results showed his opponent, the first-time candidate Jerry Lewis, ousting him
from office late Tuesday night. ''If being recalled is the price for keeping
one's promises, then so be it.''

Latino advocates saw Mr. Pearce's defeat, 53 percent to 45 percent, with some
ballots still to be tallied, as a sign that Republican politicians like Mr.
Pearce were pushing too far with their get-tough approach to illegal immigration
and that there were consequences if they did not get in sync with voter
concerns.

''This is a game-changer for Arizona, politically speaking,'' said
Representative Raul Grijalva, Democrat of Tucson. ''He's been the author of so
much of what's been going on in this state. He's used race and division to get
elected, and now he's gone.''

Some of his Republican colleagues, though, predicted that Mr. Pearce, given his
hard-charging ways and the backing of the Tea Party movement, would find a way
to return to politics -- and that there were plenty of others, from Sheriff Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County to Gov. Jan Brewer, who would press immigration in his
absence.

''I'm not going to stop,'' said Mr. Arpaio, who is known for his immigration
raids and who was commiserating with Mr. Pearce, a longtime ally, on Tuesday
night. ''I'm going to do more.''

Mr. Pearce had been a sheriff's deputy for 23 years before his election to the
State Legislature in 2000, and his recent unpopularity was partly a result of
his brusque demeanor, which resembled that of an annoyed beat cop during a
traffic stop. But voters in east Mesa, a conservative, blue-collar district,
also complained that he was consumed with one issue above all else.

One of his sons, a sheriff's deputy at the time, was shot by an illegal
immigrant, and Mr. Pearce argued that the state was being overrun by outlaws
without papers. He was behind a 2004 ballot measure that required proof of legal
residency for those receiving state services or voting. He championed a 2007 law
that allowed the state to take the business licenses of firms that hired illegal
immigrants.

But he became best known for his 2010 law, known as Senate Bill 1070, that would
have, if a federal judge had not intervened, turned police officers throughout
the state into de facto immigration agents. Despite fierce controversy, the law
was popular in Arizona and beyond, and gave rise to copycat legislation in other
states, including an even more stringent version in Alabama.

''We are in the front of the parade,'' Mr. Pearce is fond of saying.

It was Mr. Pearce's follow-up to the 2010 law that got him in trouble. This
year, he drafted a proposal to compel medical personnel to question patients
about their immigration status and school officials to do the same with
students. He also championed stripping the citizenship of children born in the
Arizona to illegal immigrants.

Arizona's business community, stung by boycotts of the state after passage of
the 2010 law, rose up against Mr. Pearce. Some of his Republican colleagues
withheld their support, which Mr. Pearce considered betrayal. He also saw some
of his initiatives vetoed by Ms. Brewer, who had her differences with Mr.
Pearce, especially given his comments that it was her support for his proposals
that propelled her to victory last November.

''He engaged in a bullying type of politics,'' said Randy Parraz, a Democrat who
founded Citizens for a Better Arizona, the group that organized the campaign
against Mr. Pearce.

During the campaign, backers of Mr. Pearce helped a Mexican immigrant, Olivia
Cortes, put her name on the ballot to siphon votes away from Mr. Lewis, but the
tactic appeared to backfire.

Many of those who supported the ouster of Mr. Pearce had been his supporters in
past elections.

''I'm a sort of redneck conservative, but for me he just went way too far on
immigration,'' said Tyler Montague, who like Mr. Pearce and Mr. Lewis is a
member of Mesa's influential Mormon Church. ''I agree that we can't have
everyone from the third world coming here, but it began to feel like he hated
these people, and I don't. They go to our churches. I know some of them.''

Mr. Lewis, a charter school executive who is fluent in Spanish, said he would be
more amenable to compromise, on immigration and everything else, than the man he
is replacing.

''What this says is that people, wherever they are, want their politicians to be
responsive to them and listen to them and react when they say, 'You may be going
too far,' '' Mr. Lewis said.

Despite tossing Mr. Pearce out of office, voters elsewhere showed little
inclination to get rid of incumbents. Several big-city mayors were re-elected,
even though most cities have been especially burdened by the sour economy.

In Houston, Mayor Annise Parker overcame low approval ratings and anti-gay
attacks to hold on to office, but just barely. Ms. Parker, a lesbian, won with
about 51 percent of the vote against five challengers. Mayors in Philadelphia,
Baltimore and Indianapolis coasted to re-election.

In San Francisco, Edwin M. Lee, the interim mayor, became the city's first
elected Chinese-American mayor, according to unofficial results Wednesday. The
city is one-quarter ethnic Chinese and has the country's oldest Chinatown.

In Iowa, Republicans failed to win control of the State Senate.

In Virginia, the Republican drive to take over that state's Senate -- and
thereby take complete control of the state government -- was teetering on the
brink. In one district, the Republican candidate held an edge of just 86 votes,
which will almost certainly lead to a recount that could take weeks. If the
Republican wins, control of the Senate will be split in a 20-20 tie with
Democrats. The lieutenant governor -- a Republican -- can cast tie-breaking
votes, but his party had hoped to come away with a cleaner victory.

In Mississippi, about 60 percent of voters rejected the ''personhood'' amendment
that would have banned all abortions and some forms of contraception.

Mississippi voters overwhelmingly approved a measure to require that prospective
voters obtain a government-issued photo identification card if they do not have
a driver's license or passport. The ID card will be free, but critics say the
measure is still onerous because it will likely require voters to produce a
birth certificate and Social Security card to obtain the new card.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Russell Pearce, far left, was recalled from the State Senate on
Tuesday, losing to another Republican, Jerry Lewis, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Mafia Is Accused of Immigration Fraud to Lure Strippers

BYLINE: AL BAKER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 569 words



HIGHLIGHT: Men with nicknames like the Grandfather and Perry Como helped recruit
women from Eastern Europe to work illegally as exotic dancers, the authorities
said.


That New York's strip clubs have been inhabited by entrepreneurial mobsters is
nothing new.

But the latest suspected criminal enterprise involving a band of Mafia members,
soldiers and associates has expanded the business model to international levels,
in a scheme the authorities say was designed to dominate an empire of strip
clubs across Manhattan, Queens and Long Island.

At its core, the operation centered on men with nicknames like the Grandfather,
Perry Como and Tommy D. pushing an enterprise to recruit women from Russia and
other Eastern European countries to enter the United States illegally to work as
exotic dancers.

In all, 20 people were arrested on Wednesday and accused of criminal activity
that included racketeering, extortion and immigration and marriage fraud. The
defendants included seven men said to be linked to the Gambino and Bonnano crime
families, the authorities said.

The suspected enterprise helped the women fraudulently obtain non-immigrant
visas, often provided housing and transportation, and then set them up to dance
at the topless clubs in violation of those visas. The women - who worked at
places including Cheetahs in Midtown Manhattan; Rouge in Maspeth, Queens; and
the Scene in Commack, Suffolk County - became "personal profit centers" for the
defendants, according to Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan.

An indictment outlined the accusations in four of the strip clubs, but did not
name them. A federal law enforcement official said that nine strip clubs in the
metropolitan area were involved, including Gallagher's and Perfection, both in
Queens.

At times, the enterprise drew money from the clubs by threatening violence,
court papers said. At other times, they offered protection from others in the
stripper industry or mob underworld, they said. Sometimes, the organized crime
members, or others, were stationed at the clubs. The members of the enterprise
also resolved disputes about which clubs the women would work in, the court
papers said, and which members would control or receive payments from which
clubs.

At times, "several of the defendants also arranged for many of the women to
enter into sham marriages with U.S. citizens," according to a statement from Mr.
Bharara's office.

The arrests were announced by Mr. Bharara and by the New York offices of the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security Investigations and the
State Department's Diplomatic Security Service.

"Today's arrests bring to an end a longstanding criminal enterprise operated by
colluding organized crime entities that profited wildly through a combination of
extortion and fraud," said James T. Hayes Jr., the immigration agency's special
agent in charge. "As alleged, the defendants controlled their business and
protected their turf through intimidation and threats of physical and economic
harm. Today, that business model has been extinguished."

It was not immediately clear how many women were entangled with the enterprise,
or what would happen to them. The defendants appeared Wednesday in federal court
in Manhattan, officials said. The case, they said, had been assigned to Federal
District Judge Victor Marrero.



     ·    Bloomberg Seeks $600 Million Refund From CityTime Company
     ·    44 Charged in Huge Medicare Fraud Scheme
     ·    7 City Workers Accused of Fraud Involving Day Care Centers
     ·    Could Your Marriage Pass the Test?
     ·    Cuomo Says 3 Companies Defrauded Haitians


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              42 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            October 8, 2011 Saturday

Perry, in Iowa, Focuses on Immigration

BYLINE: JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 726 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Texas governor also announced that he would offer a detailed plan
for job creation next week in the first policy speech of his presidential
candidacy.


ORANGE CITY, Iowa - Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Saturday that he would offer a
detailed plan for job creation next week in the first policy speech of his
presidential candidacy. But during a weekend visit here, he spent much of the
time focusing  on another issue: immigration.

In three stops across northwestern Iowa, the state's most conservative region,
Mr. Perry delivered a forceful recitation of the steps he had taken in Texas to
enforce immigration laws. He reminded audiences that he vetoed legislation
granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants and he signed a law requiring
voters to show identification.

"Legal votes should not be canceled out by illegal ones," Mr. Perry said.

Yet at every event, voters did little to mask their skepticism. They pointedly
asked him to explain the Texas law that allows illegal immigrants to qualify for
in-state tuition rates at public colleges and universities.

He neither repeated nor recanted a remark he made last month when he suggested
Republicans were heartless for opposing the idea. But he sought to allay their
concerns about a topic that has threatened to overshadow his economic message.

"They dumped it on the states," Mr. Perry said. "Are we going to kick these
people to the side of the road and let them become tax wasters? Or are we going
to give them the opportunity to go to an institution of higher learning, pay
full in-state tuition, which we do, and require them pursue citizenship? The
issue was really driven by economics."

He did not raise the in-state tuition issue on his own. But when he was asked
about it, he sought to explain it in a measured way and frame it as an economic
argument. His irritation was clear, though, when he encountered a face-to-face
question after his speech from a woman who demanded to know why illegal
immigrants were given preferential treatment.

The woman, Fae Groff-Moritz, a 63-year-old medical records clerk, approached Mr.
Perry and asked why one of her children had to pay out-of-state tuition in
neighboring South Dakota when illegal immigrants in Texas receive in-state
tuition.

"It sounds like a pretty free ride," she said.

"It's not," he replied. "I don't know where you're hearing it. It's not a free
ride."

Mr. Perry acknowledged that he has struggled to explain the issue, saying,
"Sometimes in a one-minute sound bite, it's hard to get all of that in, but the
key is this: because of the failure of the federal government to deal with the
border, we have to deal with it."

He added: "If other states don't want to do that, that's their call, I respect
that. It's not a federal issue. As the president of the United States, I
wouldn't allow it to be a federal issue."

The issue has been stoked here in Iowa, whose caucuses will open the 2012
nominating contest, by his leading Republican rival, Mitt Romney. On the eve of
Mr. Perry's arrival, the Romney campaign released a flier saying that the
in-state tuition benefit amounted to a break of $70,000 a student.

Mr. Perry rejected that argument again and again as he addressed enthusiastic
crowds in Sioux City, Orange City and Spencer. Several voters said in interviews
that his position was not necessarily a deal-breaker and that they were pleased
by fuller explanation.

"Texas is a country of its own," said Kathryn Parsons, 88, who rose from her
seat to ask one of the most pointed questions of the day on the topic. "He's
under the gun down there."

While she said she disagreed with him, she added: "He probably would be our very
best candidate - right now."

On his fourth visit to Iowa as a presidential candidate, Mr. Perry did not take
questions from reporters. His aides and Texas Rangers often formed a semicircle
around him as he shook hands and signed autographs at the end of an event.

Mr. Perry smiled but declined to answer a question from a reporter here, then
approached a group of three women. A few moments later, though, he was back to
immigration, when Mrs. Groff-Moritz grabbed his arm, looked him in the eye and
said she had a question about the in-state tuition.

"Yes ma'am," he said.


     ·    Perry Open to Military Intervention in Mexico's Drug War
     ·    Ron Paul Wins Conference Straw Poll, to No One's Surprise
     ·    Christie's Decision Leaves Republicans With Stark Choice
     ·    Caucus Video: Chris Christie's Deliberations; Rick Perry and Race
     ·    Texas Hunting Camp's Name Causes Trouble for Perry


LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              43 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Iowa, Pressure on Perry Over Immigration

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 712 words


ORANGE CITY, Iowa - Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Saturday that he would offer a
detailed plan for job creation next week in the first policy speech of his
presidential candidacy. But during a weekend visit here, he spent much of the
time focusing on another issue: immigration.

-In three stops across northwestern Iowa, the state's most conservative region,
Mr. Perry delivered a forceful recitation of the steps he had taken in Texas to
enforce immigration laws. He reminded audiences that he vetoed legislation
granting driver's licenses to illegal immigrants and he signed a law requiring
voters to show identification.

''Legal votes should not be canceled out by illegal ones,'' Mr. Perry said.

Yet at every event, voters did little to mask their skepticism. They pointedly
asked him to explain the Texas law that allows illegal immigrants to qualify for
in-state tuition rates at public colleges and universities.

He neither repeated nor recanted a remark he made last month when he suggested
Republicans were heartless for opposing the idea. But he sought to allay their
concerns about a topic that has threatened to overshadow his economic message
and the job-creation record in Texas that he had hoped to promote as the
centerpiece of his candidacy.

''They dumped it on the states,'' Mr. Perry said. ''Are we going to kick these
people to the side of the road and let them become tax wasters? Or are we going
to give them the opportunity to go to an institution of higher learning, pay
full in-state tuition, which we do, and require them pursue citizenship? The
issue was really driven by economics.''

He did not raise the in-state tuition issue on his own. But when he was asked
about it, he sought to explain it in a measured way and frame it as an economic
argument. His irritation was clear, though, when he encountered a face-to-face
question after his speech from a woman who demanded to know why illegal
immigrants were given preferential treatment.

The woman, Fae Groff-Moritz, a 63-year-old medical records clerk, approached Mr.
Perry and asked why one of her children had to pay out-of-state tuition in
neighboring South Dakota when illegal immigrants in Texas receive in-state
tuition.

''It sounds like a pretty free ride,'' she said.

''It's not,'' he replied. ''I don't know where you're hearing it. It's not a
free ride.''

Mr. Perry acknowledged that he has struggled to explain the issue, saying,
''Sometimes in a one-minute sound bite, it's hard to get all of that in, but the
key is this: because of the failure of the federal government to deal with the
border, we have to deal with it.''

He added: ''If other states don't want to do that, that's their call, I respect
that. It's not a federal issue. As the president of the United States, I
wouldn't allow it to be a federal issue.''

The issue has been stoked here in Iowa, whose caucuses will open the 2012
nominating contest, by his leading Republican rival, Mitt Romney. On the eve of
Mr. Perry's arrival, the Romney campaign released a flier saying that the
in-state tuition benefit amounted to a break of $70,000 a student.

Mr. Perry rejected that argument again and again as he addressed enthusiastic
crowds in Sioux City, Orange City and Spencer. Several voters said in interviews
that his position was not necessarily a deal-breaker and that they were pleased
by fuller explanation.

''Texas is a country of its own,'' said Kathryn Parsons, 88, who rose from her
seat to ask one of the most pointed questions of the day on the topic. ''He's
under the gun down there.''

While she said she disagreed with him, she added: ''He probably would be our
very best candidate - right now.''

On his fourth visit to Iowa as a presidential candidate, Mr. Perry did not take
questions from reporters. His aides and Texas Rangers often formed a semicircle
around him as he shook hands and signed autographs at the end of an event.

Mr. Perry smiled but declined to answer a question from a reporter here, then
approached a group of three women. A few moments later, though, he was back to
immigration, when Mrs. Groff-Moritz grabbed his arm, looked him in the eye and
said she had a question about the in-state tuition.

-''Yes ma'am,'' he said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Women Are Spared Deportation to Bangladesh, for Now

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration Customs and Enforcement has agreed to review the case of
Nadia and Nazmin Habib and decide whether to reopen it, their lawyer said.


Nadia Habib and her mother, Nazmin Habib, are not being sent back to Bangladesh
just yet.

At an immigration hearing in Federal Plaza on Thursday, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agreed to review the Habibs' case and decide whether to reopen it,
their lawyer said.

The women, who live in Woodside, Queens, are to report back to the immigration
agency in three months and remain under an order of supervision requiring them
to notify immigration authorities if they intend to leave the state for more
than two days, said their lawyer, Aygul Charles.

Ms. Charles said that the Habibs "could still be deported any day," but she
added that she thought the director of the New York office of ICE , Christopher
Shanahan, "recognizes that it's a sympathetic family."

Officials at the immigration agency said they could not comment  on an
individual case without a privacy waiver from the Habibs, which was not
immediately available.

Nadia, 19, and her parents came to the United States in 1993 when Nadia was 20
months old. Her father now has a green card and her three younger brothers, all
born here, are citizens, but Nadia and Nazmin overstayed a tourist visa and have
been trying to reopen their case and press a political asylum claim since 2000.

All morning in front of Federal Plaza, friend and supporters had held up signs
and protested for the Habibs not to be deported and the family split up. Nadia,
a psychology major at Stony Brook University, was swarmed when she left the
court building.

"I'm very excited, nervous," she said. "I'm just going home to chill out."


     ·    In the Moments Before Deportation, Holding Onto Hope
     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser
     ·    4-Year-Old Citizen Who Was Deported Comes Back


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              45 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

Women Are Spared Deportation to Bangladesh, for Now

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration Customs and Enforcement has agreed to review the case of
Nadia and Nazmin Habib and decide whether to reopen it, their lawyer said.


Nadia Habib and her mother, Nazmin Habib, are not being sent back to Bangladesh
just yet.

At an immigration hearing in Federal Plaza on Thursday, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agreed to review the Habibs' case and decide whether to reopen it,
their lawyer said.

The women, who live in Woodside, Queens, are to report back to the immigration
agency in three months and remain under an order of supervision requiring them
to notify immigration authorities if they intend to leave the state for more
than two days, said their lawyer, Aygul Charles.

Ms. Charles said that the Habibs "could still be deported any day," but she
added that she thought the director of the New York office of ICE , Christopher
Shanahan, "recognizes that it's a sympathetic family."

Officials at the immigration agency said they could not comment  on an
individual case without a privacy waiver from the Habibs, which was not
immediately available.

Nadia, 19, and her parents came to the United States in 1993 when Nadia was 20
months old. Her father now has a green card and her three younger brothers, all
born here, are citizens, but Nadia and Nazmin overstayed a tourist visa and have
been trying to reopen their case and press a political asylum claim since 2000.

All morning in front of Federal Plaza, friend and supporters had held up signs
and protested for the Habibs not to be deported and the family split up. Nadia,
a psychology major at Stony Brook University, was swarmed when she left the
court building.

"I'm very excited, nervous," she said. "I'm just going home to chill out."


     ·    In the Moments Before Deportation, Holding Onto Hope
     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser
     ·    4-Year-Old Citizen Who Was Deported Comes Back


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              46 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Ruling, Hispanics Flee an Alabama Town

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1142 words


ALBERTVILLE, Ala. -- The vanishing began Wednesday night, the most frightened
families packing up their cars as soon as they heard the news.

They left behind mobile homes, sold fully furnished for a thousand dollars or
even less. Or they just closed up and, in a gesture of optimism, left the keys
with a neighbor. Dogs were fed one last time; if no home could be found, they
were simply unleashed.

Two, 5, 10 years of living here, and then gone in a matter of days, to
Tennessee, Illinois, Oregon, Florida, Arkansas, Mexico -- who knows? Anywhere
but Alabama.

The exodus of Hispanic immigrants began just hours after a federal judge in
Birmingham upheld most provisions of the state's far-reaching immigration
enforcement law.

The judge, Sharon Lovelace Blackburn, upheld the parts of the law allowing state
and local police to ask for immigration papers during routine traffic stops,
rendering most contracts with illegal immigrants unenforceable and requiring
schools to ascertain the immigration status of children at registration time.

When Judge Blackburn was finished, Alabama was left with what the governor
called ''the strongest immigration law in this country.'' It went into effect
immediately, though her ruling is being appealed by the Justice Department and a
coalition of civil rights groups.

In the days since, school superintendents have reassured parents -- one even did
so on television in Spanish -- that nothing had changed for children who were
already enrolled. Wary police departments around the state said they were, for
now, awaiting instructions on how to carry out the law.

For many immigrants, however, waiting seemed just too dangerous. By Monday
afternoon, 123 students had withdrawn from the schools in this small town in the
northern hills, leaving behind teary and confused classmates. Scores more were
absent. Statewide, 1,988 Hispanic students were absent on Friday, about 5
percent of the entire Hispanic population of the school system.

John Weathers, an Albertville businessman who rents and has sold houses to many
Hispanic residents, said his occupancy had suddenly dropped by a quarter and
might drop further, depending on what happens in the next week. Two people who
had paid off their mortgages called him asking if they could sell back their
homes, Mr. Weathers said.

Grocery stores and restaurants were noticeably less busy, which in some cases
may be just as well, because some employees stopped showing up. In certain
neighborhoods the streets are uncommonly quiet, like the aftermath of some sort
of rapture.

Drawn by work in the numerous poultry processing plants, Hispanic immigrants
have been coming to Albertville for years, long enough ago that some of the
older ones gained amnesty under the immigration law of 1986. But the influx
picked up over the last decade, and the signs on Main Street are now mostly
bilingual, when they include English at all.

What the new immigration law means on a large scale will become clearest in a
place like Albertville, whether it will deliver jobs to citizens and protect
taxpayers as promised or whether it will spell economic disaster as opponents
fear.

Critics of the law, particularly farmers, contractors and home builders, say the
measure has already been devastating, leaving rotting crops in fields and
critical shortages of labor. They say that even fully documented Hispanic
workers are leaving, an assessment that seems to be borne out in interviews
here. The legal status of family members is often mixed -- children are often
American-born citizens -- but the decision whether to stay rests on the weakest
link.

Backers of the law acknowledge that it might be disruptive in the short term,
but say it will prove effective over time.

''It's going to take some time for the local labor pool to develop again,'' said
State Senator Arthur Orr, Republican of Decatur, ''but outside labor shouldn't
come in and just beat them every time on cost and put them out of business.''

Mr. Orr said there were already signs that the law was working, pointing out
that the work-release center in Decatur, about 50 miles to the northwest, was
not so long ago unable to find jobs for inmates with poultry processors or home
manufacturers. Since the law was enacted in June, he said, the center has been
placing more and more inmates in these jobs, now more than 150 a day.

On Monday morning, one of the poultry processing plants in Albertville had a job
fair, attracting an enormous crowd, a mix of Hispanic, black and white
job-seekers, lining up outside the plant and down the street.

''This needed to be done years ago,'' Shannon Lolling, 36, who has been
unemployed for over a year, said of the law.

Mr. Lolling's problem seemed to be with the system that had brought the
illegal-immigrant workers here, not with the workers themselves.

''That's why our jobs went south to Mexico,'' he said. ''They pay them less
wages and pocket the money, keep us from having jobs.''

Not far from the plant, in the Hispanic neighborhoods, it is hard to
differentiate the silence of the workday, the silence of abandonment or the
silence of paralyzing fear.

Many Hispanics have chosen to stay for now, saying, with little apparent
conviction, that the law will surely be blocked by the president, the judge,
''the government.'' Until then, they are not leaving their homes unless
absolutely necessary. They send others to buy their groceries and tell their
children to quit the soccer team and to come home right after school. Rumors of
raids and roadblocks are rampant, and though the new law has nothing to say
about such things, distrust is primed by anecdotes, like one told by a local
Hispanic pastor who said he was pulled over outside Birmingham on Wednesday,
within hours of the ruling. His friend who was driving -- and who is in the
United States illegally -- is now in jail on an unrelated misdemeanor charge,
the pastor said, adding that while he was let go, a policeman told him he was no
longer welcome in Alabama.

''I am afraid to drive to church.,'' a 54-year-old poultry plant worker named
Candelaria said, adding, ''The lady that gives me a ride to work said she is
leaving. She said she felt like a prisoner.''

All summer long, Allen Stoner, a lawyer in Decatur, has been helping his
Hispanic clients fill out forms appointing friends or family members as
guardians of their children, who are in many cases American-born citizens. This
way, the children would not be transferred to social services if the parents
were arrested and deported.

Much of this was done by the time the judge's ruling came down, though last week
Mr. Stoner's clients began to contact him immediately to ask what they should be
doing. Monday was quiet.

''We had a lot of phone calls Thursday and Friday,'' Mr. Stoner said, ''but it
has plummeted.''

He did not know for sure, but he figured his clients were gone.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Daniel Herring applied for a job Monday at Wayne Farms in
Albertville. Many of the company's Hispanic workers have left. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
William Gaspar, 9
Eric Badillo, 11
Angel Garcia, 10
and Elias Gaspar, 10, played soccer Monday in Albertville, Ala. Senator Scott
Beason, at left, was a sponsor of the state's immigration law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
JOSH ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JULIE BENNETT/MONTGOMERY ADVERTISER) (A16) MAP: Albertville, Ala., has had a
large Hispanic population. (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Smart Immigration Move at Rikers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 370 words


Mayor Michael Bloomberg speaks often about the need for smart and humane
immigration reform. He has now rightly thrown his support behind a City Council
bill that would place sensible limits on how far New York City goes to help the
federal government detain and deport illegal immigrants who pose no threat to
the community.

The bill, sponsored by Speaker Christine Quinn, involves immigrants jailed at
Rikers Island. Officials there, as in most of the country, routinely send lists
of foreign-born inmates to Immigration and Customs Enforcement. The agency,
known as ICE, checks its databases for immigration violators and sends back
requests that certain inmates be held until taken into federal custody. The city
usually obliges, though no law or agreement requires it to.

The agency issued so-called detainers on 3,506 Rikers inmates in 2009. But were
they all dangerous criminals? The City Council found that while about 22 percent
of the detainers were placed on inmates with felony records, more than half
involved inmates with no prior convictions.

Under Ms. Quinn's bill, the city would still allow ICE into its jails and would
keep firm hold on criminals who threatened public safety. But it would end the
voluntary practice of handing over inmates who clearly do not belong in ICE's
dragnet. That is, those who are about to be released because charges have been
dropped, who have no prior convictions or outstanding warrants, who have not
been previously ordered deported, and who do not appear on watch lists of gang
members and terrorists.

It is a sensible approach, nothing like the thoughtless harshness we see in
Alabama and Arizona, where radical laws have enabled indiscriminate roundups,
without regard to the devastating harm to families, citizen children or the
economy. With deportations at record highs under President Obama -- partly
because of the outsourcing of immigration enforcement to local police agencies
-- discretion and compassion are needed more than ever. His administration
recently declared that it would focus on deporting dangerous criminals, not
harmless workers. With this bill, New York would help make sure those good
intentions stick. The Council should swiftly pass this bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Sensible Path in California

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 381 words


Gov. Jerry Brown of California took a stand for immigrants' rights and humane,
sensible government when he signed several new bills into law. It is a welcome
change from the intolerance and counterproductive policies being adopted in so
many other states around the country.

The most significant legislation was the California Dream Act, which will help
lift barriers to college for thousands of undocumented students. The first part
of the two-bill package allows students to apply for private scholarships and
loans; the second makes them eligible to seek state-financed aid. Mr. Brown has
fulfilled a campaign promise to extend opportunity to talented young
Californians who are blameless for their immigration status.

The law, blasted by shortsighted critics as a waste of money, is an investment
in California's future and a powerful defense of assimilation, education and the
rights of children. It stands in sharp contrast to radical laws in Arizona and
Alabama, which use police-state powers to choke off all opportunity for
unauthorized immigrants and force them into hidden, impoverished lives.

Four other laws defend immigrants in other ways. One prohibits city and county
governments from enacting laws forcing employers to use E-Verify, the
error-prone federal hiring database, to check workers' immigration status.
Another requires public schools to accept a broad range of proof-of-residency
documents when enrolling students to ensure compliance with Plyler v. Doe, the
Supreme Court decision that guaranteed all children a public education
regardless of immigration status.

The other laws restrict the ability of law enforcement to seize the vehicles of
drivers whose only violation is lack of a license, and allow undocumented
student-government leaders at the California State University and state
community colleges to qualify for the same stipends and scholarships other
student leaders receive.

With these new laws, California is telling immigrants not to stay hidden but to
get educated and keep working hard. They are no substitute for federal reform --
an unauthorized young person with a college degree is still unauthorized. They
are a road map to restoring the connection between immigrants' dreams and
American opportunities. For that, California deserves admiration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Huddled Masses, Turned Away

BYLINE: By ROBERT M. MORGENTHAU.

Robert M. Morgenthau was the Manhattan district attorney from 1975 to 2009.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 602 words


EMMA LAZARUS'S sonnet -- ''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses
yearning to breathe free'' -- greeted generations of immigrants.

But today, as we observe the 125th anniversary of the dedication of the Statue
of Liberty, those words, inscribed at its base, have been turned on their heads.
Many of Lazarus's tired and poor may today be found in immigrant detention
facilities, part of an enormous backlog of deportation cases that grows larger
by the day. Last year, the Department of Homeland Security deported nearly
400,000 people; its secretary, Janet Napolitano, recently promised to increase
removal cases to ''historic levels.''

Immigration and Customs Enforcement received more than $1.6 billion for removal
and deportation in the last fiscal year. It can cost $23,000, by some estimates,
to remove someone from the United States.

Though it has assured Congress that it concentrates on those who pose a danger
to public safety, the agency often deports immigrants guilty only of technical
violation of the immigration laws. A study group based at Syracuse University
analyzed 187,000 immigration cases that were completed in the 10 months that
ended on July 31. Of those cases, 81 percent involved only procedural, not
criminal, wrongdoing. Of all the accused foreigners, only two were charged with
terrorist activities. Neither was ultimately convicted of terrorism, and the
immigration court even granted one of them permanent resident status.

Our restrictive immigration laws are bad enough -- separating families, sending
refugees like Haitians back to devastated countries, denying jobs to foreign
students -- but how they are administered is even worse. Some immigrants
languish in privately operated detention facilities for months, denied any civil
rights, until they are deported. Immigration agents profile people improperly,
based on their apparent race or religion, detaining them at will.

I first became aware of these ludicrous enforcement practices in May 2003. I
received an urgent call on behalf of Julie Gavras, whose father, the filmmaker
Costa-Gavras, is a friend.

She had flown to Kennedy Airport to visit her father, who was directing a group
of artists at Lincoln Center in a program to mark the forthcoming 2004 Olympics
in Athens. She had a ticket to return to Paris in less than a week. The offense
that led to her detention was her having overstayed a tourist visa years
earlier. Representatives of the Greek and French governments, and other
prominent people, called on I.C.E. officials at the airport, but each was told
that ''the law is the law,'' and that Ms. Gavras would have to remain in
detention until she returned to Paris.

I spoke with the I.C.E. official at the airport and met the same refusal. I
finally asked him, ''Why don't you treat her like an ordinary criminal? Parole
her into my custody, and I will be responsible for seeing that she is on a
flight to Paris in five days.'' After conferring by phone with persons unknown,
he reluctantly granted my request. Ms. Gavras was able to join her father for
the performance.

After that episode, I started paying more attention to immigrant detention and
removal. I found that Ms. Gavras's experiences have been repeated thousands of
times. Unfortunately, there is seldom anyone to intercede.

There was a time when immigrants were treated with compassion. Lazarus's
experiences at Wards Island, then a station for sick and destitute arrivals,
sensitized her to the plight of immigrants and inspired her to give such a
powerful voice to the statue. Let us honor Lady Liberty by heeding Lazarus's
stirring words.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday

Case Stemming From Antiterrorism Registry Is Dropped

BYLINE: SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 318 words



HIGHLIGHT: Immigration authorities said they will drop their case against
Mohammed G. Azam, a young Bangladeshi man who had been fighting deportation
since 2003, when he registered with a special post-9/11 program for Muslims.


Immigration authorities announced on  Wednesday that they will drop their case
against Mohammed G. Azam, a young Bangladeshi man who had been fighting
deportation since 2003, when he registered with a special post-9/11 program for
Muslims.

In April, the government ended the "special registration" program, which critics
had said amounted to racial profiling, but Mr. Azam was one of perhaps hundreds
still caught in its net.

Dozens of local elected officials rallied behind Mr. Azam, a manager at a local
Haagen Dazs store, calling him a "model citizen." The New York Times published
an article about Mr. Azam's case on Tuesday.

"I just cannot explain how happy I am," Mr. Azam said after hearing the news.
"My mom can't stop crying. She's so happy; she can't stop crying."

Mr. Azam, 26, has been stuck in immigration law limbo since he was a teenager.

His father, Mohammed Hossain, applied for permanent resident status in 2001,
when Mr. Azam was 16. But Mr. Hossain was not approved until 2007, when his son
was 22. Immigration officials argued that Mr. Azam was too old to benefit from
his father's new status, and they pressed forward in their efforts to deport
him.

In February, an immigration judge ruled that the case against Mr. Azam should be
dropped, arguing that he should not be penalized for the government's delay in
processing his father's application.

Immigration authorities had been preparing an appeal, but on Wednesday, Luis M.
Martinez, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman, said they would drop
the case.

Nancy Morawetz, of the Immigrant Rights Clinic at the New York University School
of Law, which represents Mr. Azam, said, "This just lifts an enormous burden."

The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, who took up Mr. Azam's
cause, said work still remained.

"It doesn't end with this case," he said. "There are countless others who find
themselves in similar situations."

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

The Early Word: Challenges

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 544 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Supreme Court is likely to decide the fate of the Obama
administration's health care overhaul by June 2012.


In Today's Times


     ·    The Supreme Court is likely to decide the fate of the Obama
          administration's health care overhaul by June 2012 after the Justice
          Department asked the Supreme Court on Wednesday to hear a case
          concerning the 2010 law. Adam Liptak writes that the development "came
          unexpectedly fast and makes it all but certain" that the court will
          hear and decide one or more cases involving the law in the middle of
          the 2012 presidential campaign.



     ·    In a back-to-school message on Wednesday, President Obama urged
          students to keep studying, Mark Landler reports. Acknowledging the
          strain that the recession had put on families as well as the rise of
          bullying on the Internet, the president told students at Benjamin
          Banneker High School in Washington to push themselves to finish high
          school and later, college.



     ·    Immigration officials in Washington said on Wednesday that they had
          swept up nearly 3,000 immigrants with criminal records since August,
          when the Obama administration adopted a policy emphasizing the
          deportation of individuals who may pose a public safety threat,
          Charlie Savage writes.



     ·    Elsewhere, a federal judge in Alabama upheld the state's far-reaching
          immigration law against a challenge by the Justice Department, raising
          the chances that cases concerning the law in Alabama and others in
          Arizona and Georgia will reach the United States Supreme Court,
          Campbell Robertson reports.



     ·    Mitt Romney appears to President Obama and his advisers to be the
          Republican who could take back the White House, but he has
          considerable difficulty convincing voters of the same, Jeff Zeleny
          writes. He looks at  how Mr. Romney has struggled to woo supporters
          and donors who are looking for a fresh face to challenge Mr. Obama
          next year.



     ·    At the moment, Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey is the potential
          candidate that party operatives are trying to lure into the Republican
          race. Michael D. Shear and Richard Perez-Pena examine the combination
          of acrimony and agreement that has marked Mr. Christie's term at the
          helm of the Garden State's government.



     ·    Slightly more than two weeks after the 10th anniversary of the Sept.
          11 terrorist attacks, a Massachusetts man is being held on charges
          that he planned to use remote-controlled planes to blow up the
          Pentagon and the Capitol. Abby Goodnough details the Federal Bureau of
          Investigation's sting operation that led to the man's arrest.


Happening in Washington


     ·    Mr. Obama will meet on Wednesday with Treasury Secretary Timothy F.
          Geithner and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton. In between, he
          will do interviews with local news stations about his jobs bill, The
          American Jobs Act.



     ·    Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will highlight the jobs bill at the
          Police Department in Alexandria, Va., before meeting with the Kuwaiti
          prime minister. Later, he'll mark Hispanic Heritage Month at the
          National Observatory.



     ·    At 8:30 a.m., the Department of Labor releases weekly jobless claims
          and the Department of Commerce puts out gross domestic product figures
          for the second quarter, which ran from Jan. 1 to March 31.



     ·    At 10 a.m., Freddie Mac releases weekly mortgage rates and the
          National Association of Realtors highlights pending home sales for
          August.



     ·    Georgetown Law School hosts a preview of the coming Supreme Court term
          at 6 p.m.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              52 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            November 14, 2011 Monday

Opinion Report: Civil Rights in Alabama

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 186 words



HIGHLIGHT: A summary of what's on today's editorial page.



There's a new civil rights struggle in Alabama, this time against anti-immigrant
laws that deny those without papers the ability to work or travel, to own or
rent a home, or to enter contracts of any kind.

New York City routinely fails to release data requested under the state's
Freedom of Information Law. Mayor Michael Bloomberg should tell his
administrators to comply quickly and thoroughly.

Some Republicans are finally standing up against Grover Norquist's anti-tax
pledge. Recently, 40 Republicans and 60 Democrats sent a letter to the budget
deficit supercommittee urging a grand bargain that includes new revenues as well
as spending cuts.

A new report from the U.S. Sentencing Commission has found that federal
mandatory minimum sentences are often severe and applied inconsistently,
contributing to the near tripling of federal prisoners in the last 20 years.
It's time for Congress to rescind mandatory minimum sentences.


     ·    Opinion Report: A Perfect Day for Menhaden Fish
     ·    Opinion Report: Tobacco Warnings
     ·    Opinion Report: Penn State
     ·    Oppression Is Not a State's Right
     ·    Opinion Report: Unemployment Benefits and Pensions


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              53 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Campaign Stops)

                            November 21, 2011 Monday

The White Party

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1268 words



HIGHLIGHT: Republicans triumphed in the mid-term election with help from a surge
of white voters. Will doubling down on the same strategy work in 2012?


In the wake of the 2008 election, conservative Republican strategists like Karl
Rove, Grover Norquist and William Kristol warned that their party faced even
worse defeats if it continued in its anti-immigrant posturing.

"An anti-Hispanic attitude is suicidal," Rove wrote. The decision to "demagogue"
the immigration issue was a "totally self-inflicted wound by House Republicans,"
Kristol declared. "Beating up on immigrants," Grover Norquist said, "loses you
votes."

Their advice was rejected. Republicans running for the House and the Senate
defiantly calculated that they could win in 2010 with a surge of white voters,
affirming the Republican role as the default party of white America. Initially,
this approach appeared quixotic. A demographic tidal wave of African-American
and Hispanic voters threatened to wash the Republicans out to sea.

But many Republican candidates - incumbents and challengers - did not budge.
They not only held firm in their adamant opposition to immigration reform
(despite its crucial importance to many Hispanic voters), but they also became
even more hard-nosed. Former apostates on the issue, like Senator John McCain of
Arizona, who had proudly backed immigration reform in 2004 and 2005, saw the
light - in other words, read poll data on Republican voters - and moved to the
right.

To use just one particularly egregious example, Senator David Vitter - who
admitted that he had "let down and disappointed" family, friends and supporters
but refused to answer questions about his connections to prostitutes - used an
outspoken anti-immigration ad to win re-election easily in Louisiana.

The decision to carry the banner for conservative white America paid off in the
midterm elections - helped enormously, of course, by a dismal economy under a
Democratic president and a Democratic Congress, as well as conservative
hostility to the administration's health care program and economic stimulus
legislation.

In 2010, the Republican white strategy was boosted by the fact that minority
turnout traditionally drops in non-presidential years, perhaps especially so
without Obama on the ballot. But the scope of success went far beyond
expectations.

The percentage of non-Hispanic whites voting for Republican House candidates in
2010, 62 percent, set a record for off-year contests, beating even the 1994
Republican rout when Republicans got 58 percent of the white vote. In
presidential elections, you have to go back to the landslide Republican
victories of 1972 (Richard Nixon versus George McGovern) and 1984 (Ronald Reagan
versus Walter Mondale) to get white Republican margins similar to those of 2010.
McGovern and Mondale carried just one state each, Massachusetts and Minnesota
respectively.

Another way of looking at it is this: fully 88.8 percent of all ballots cast in
2010 for House Republicans were cast by whites, compared to 63.9 percent for
Democrats.

The degree to which the Republican Party has become a white party is also
reflected in the composition of primary voters. For example, on March 4, 2008,
in Ohio - where non-Hispanic whites are 81.1 percent of the population, blacks
12.2 percent, and Hispanics 3.1 percent - the Republican primary turnout was 97
percent white. Hispanics were 2 percent and the black turnout was so low it was
zero percent, statistically speaking. One percent was described as "other."

In the Jan. 19, 2008, South Carolina primary, 96 percent of the Republican
turnout was white, 2 percent black, 1 percent Latino and 1 percent other. The
population of the state is 64.1 percent white, 27.9 percent black and 5.1
percent Hispanic.

Now, moving toward what has all the markings of a historic ideological and
demographic collision on Nov. 6, 2012, Republicans are doubling down on this
racially fraught strategy.

While the subject of race and of the overwhelmingly white Republican primary
electorate are never explicitly discussed by Republican candidates, the issue is
subsumed in blatant anti-immigration rhetoric. As Rick Perry, the governor of
Texas, learned the hard way, voicing sympathy for the plight of the undocumented
is a sure way to lose ground.

The once-ascendant Perry torpedoed his own bid during a Sept. 22 debate in
Orlando, Fla., when he endorsed using taxpayer dollars to educate the children
of illegal immigrants. A single sentence started him on a downward slide:

If you say that we should not educate children who have come into our state for
no other reason than they've been brought there by no fault of their own, I
don't think you have a heart.

The major threat to the Republican "white" strategy is a revival of the high
turnout among minorities that carried Democrats to victory in 2008. Republicans,
however, are taking advantage of their newly won control of state governments
across the country to enact laws designed to suppress minority turnout.

Republican legislators and governors are reversing decades of liberalized access
to the ballot by passing laws restricting or eliminating election day
registration, early voting, the broader use of absentee ballots and voting by
mail.

At least eight states have enacted legislation to curb access to the polls,
including three key battlegrounds in the presidential race: Wisconsin, Florida
and Ohio.

Liberal groups, including the Brennan Center for Justice at the New York
University Law School, estimate that as many as five million men and women will
be unable to vote because of these laws, which disproportionately affect
minority voters.

With less than a year to go until the election, poll data suggest that the
Republican "white" strategy has a chance of working. Since 2008, the Republican
Party's biggest gains, and Obama's sharpest declines, have been among white
voters.

Gene Ulm, a partner at Public Opinion Strategies, a Republican firm that
conducts the NBC/Wall Street Journal surveys with Peter D. Hart Research
Associates, a Democratic company, wrote on September 16 that among whites on two
key measures - ratings of Obama's job performance and his image or personal
favorability ratings - the president has dropped below a crucial tipping point:
"Even following the disastrous-for-Democrats 2010 mid-term elections, President
Obama's image was net-positive among white voters, 45%-38%; it is now
upside-down by a wide margin, 36%-52%."

The non-partisan Pew Research Center reported in July that measurements of
partisan identification showed increasing Republican margins among white voters.
In 2008, 46 percent of whites said they were Republicans or generally voted for
Republicans, and 44 percent were Democrats, a virtual tie. By the summer of
2011, however, the Republican advantage had grown to 52-39.

The shift, Pew noted, was "particularly pronounced among the young and poor."
Whites under 30 in 2008 favored Democrats by seven points, but by mid-2011 gave
the Republican party an 11 point edge, a substantial 18 point shift. Similarly,
whites with incomes under $30,000 had favored Democrats by 15 points in 2008,
but in 2011 tilted Republican by four points, a 19 point shift.

Regardless of the ultimate success of the Republican strategy, these trends
guarantee that race and ethnicity will be dominant themes underlying the 2012
election, infusing the debate over deficits, taxes and government spending. In
the 140 years from the end of Reconstruction to the present, no matter what the
motives of those engaging in the debate, these divisive issues have worked to
the advantage of economic elites and there is no reason to believe this will
change.



     ·    Granny Loves Gingrich
     ·    Capitalizing on Collapse
     ·    Who Gets to Vote?
     ·    Welcome Back
     ·    Primary Sources


LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              54 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo Ends State's Role in U.S. Immigrant Checks

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 766 words



Gov. Andrew M. Cuomosaid on Wednesday that he was suspending New York's
participation in a federal immigration enforcement plan that has drawn fire from
immigrant advocates, civil liberties lawyers and elected officials in the state
and around the country.

A statement from Mr. Cuomo's office said there was ''mounting evidence'' that
the program, called Secure Communities, had not only failed to meet its goal of
deporting the most serious immigrant criminals but was also undermining law
enforcement and compromising public safety.

''There are concerns about the implementation of the program as well as its
impact on families, immigrant communities and law enforcement in New York,'' Mr.
Cuomo said. Unless those concerns are eased, the statement said, New York will
not take part.

Mr. Cuomo's decision makes New York the second state to announce its intention
to withdraw from the program, and sets up a confrontation with the Obama
administration, which has made Secure Communities a cornerstone of immigration
enforcement strategy. Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois said in May that he was
canceling his state's participation.

Under the program, begun by the Bush administration in 2008, the fingerprints of
everyone booked into a local or county jail are sent to the Department of
Homeland Security and compared with prints in its files. If officials find that
a suspect is in the country illegally, or is a noncitizen with a criminal
record, they may seek to deport the person.

By Wednesday, that fingerprint sharing had been introduced in about 41 percent
of the nation's jurisdictions, including 27 of 62 counties in New York. Mr.
Cuomo's move means that those counties' participation will end. The entire
country is scheduled to join the program by 2013.

The practical effects of Mr. Cuomo's decision are unclear. New York law
enforcement agencies regularly check fingerprints with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. Homeland Security officials said that regardless of New York's
participation in Secure Communities, the F.B.I. would still share fingerprints
with the immigration agency.

Federal officials said that if states did not share fingerprints with the
F.B.I., those states would lose access to federal criminal databases,
undermining their ability to fight crime.

While Secure Communities has contributed to a sharp rise in deportations under
President Obama, it does not appear to have won him many allies. It has angered
immigrants who supported Democrats in recent elections. It has also failed to
convince many of the president's Republican opponents that he is sufficiently
committed to enforcement.

Opponents of the program contend that even though it was mainly intended to
ensnare convicted criminals and people deemed a security threat, it has instead
caught too many immigrants charged with low-level crimes or guilty only of being
in the country illegally. This pattern, the opponents argue, has driven
immigrants deeper into the shadows and deterred them from helping officials
fight crime.

In addition, critics have assailed the rollout of Secure Communities, which has
been plagued by seemingly contradictory statements about how it works and
whether local and state participation is voluntary.

Mylan L. Denerstein, counsel to Mr. Cuomo, cited these concerns in a letter on
Wednesday.

''Until the numerous questions and controversies regarding the program can be
resolved, we have determined that New York is best served by relying on existing
tools to ensure the safety of its residents, especially given our overriding
concern that the current mechanism is actually undermining law enforcement,''
Ms. Denerstein wrote to John Sandweg, counsel to Janet Napolitano, the homeland
security secretary.

Officials from Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of Homeland Security
that oversees Secure Communities, said it was reviewing the program to make sure
it focused on criminals.

Immigrant advocates praised Mr. Cuomo. ''It is clear the tide is turning''
against Secure Communities, said Pablo Alvarado, director of the National Day
Laborer Organizing Network in Los Angeles. ''It's high time for the president to
terminate the program before any further damage is done to our communities.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Thursday about Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's announcement that he is
suspending New York's participation in a federal immigration enforcement program
known as Secure Communities referred incorrectly to Mylan L. Denerstein, counsel
to Mr. Cuomo. She is a woman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A May rally in Manhattan called for an end to the Secure
Communities drive. Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, shown at left, has suspended New York's
participation in the federal program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to End Deportation Case For Man on Post-9/11 Registry

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 334 words


Immigration authorities announced on Wednesday that they will drop their case
against Mohammed G. Azam, a young Bangladeshi man who had been fighting
deportation since 2003, when he registered with a special post-9/11 program for
Muslims.

In April, the government ended the ''special registration'' program, which
critics had said amounted to racial profiling, but Mr. Azam was one of perhaps
hundreds still caught in its net.

Dozens of local elected officials rallied behind Mr. Azam, a manager at a local
Haagen Dazs store, calling him a ''model citizen.'' The New York Times published
an article about Mr. Azam's case on Tuesday.

''I just cannot explain how happy I am,'' Mr. Azam said after hearing the news.
''My mom can't stop crying. She's so happy; she can't stop crying.''

Mr. Azam, 26, has been stuck in immigration law limbo since he was a teenager.

His father, Mohammed Hossain, applied for permanent resident status in 2001,
when Mr. Azam was 16. But Mr. Hossain was not approved until 2007, when his son
was 22. Immigration officials argued that Mr. Azam was too old to benefit from
his father's new status, and they pressed forward in their efforts to deport
him.

In February, an immigration judge ruled that the case against Mr. Azam should be
dropped, arguing that he should not be penalized for the government's delay in
processing his father's application.

Immigration authorities had been preparing an appeal, but on Wednesday, Luis M.
Martinez, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokesman, said they would drop
the case.

Nancy Morawetz, of the Immigrant Rights Clinic at the New York University School
of Law, which represents Mr. Azam, said, ''This just lifts an enormous burden.''

The Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, who took up Mr. Azam's
cause, said work still remained.

''It doesn't end with this case,'' he said. ''There are countless others who
find themselves in similar situations.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 7, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Program Is Rejected By 3rd State

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 769 words


Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts has decided the state will not participate
in a fingerprint-sharing program that is central to the Obama administration's
immigration enforcement strategy, dealing a new political blow to a program that
has met rising resistance nationwide.

Massachusetts is the third state to pull out of the program, called Secure
Communities, after Gov. Pat Quinn canceled it in Illinois in May and Gov. Andrew
M. Cuomo suspended New York's participation last week. All three are Democrats
from states with large immigrant populations, and they are close allies of
President Obama, including on immigration issues.

The governors' actions seem to set up a confrontation with immigration
authorities, who maintain that the program is mandatory.

In a June 3 letter, the Massachusetts secretary of public safety and security,
Mary Elizabeth Heffernan, said Mr. Patrick had concluded that he should not sign
any agreement to join the program because it was not accomplishing its goal of
deporting immigrants who were convicted of serious crimes. Ms. Heffernan also
wrote that state law enforcement officials feared that the program was ''overly
broad and may deter the reporting of criminal activity.''

She rebuked Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that runs
the program, for sending ''conflicting messages'' about how it would operate in
Massachusetts and whether states were required to join.

''We are reluctant to participate if the program is mandatory and unwilling to
participate if it is voluntary,'' she wrote.

Officials from the enforcement agency have acknowledged that they did a poor job
of explaining the program to state officials, at one point suggesting that it
might be voluntary.

A Department of Homeland Security official said that the authorities would
continue to expand the Secure Communities program, including in Massachusetts,
because it was required by a federal law passed after the Sept. 11, 2001,
terrorist attacks that addresses the sharing of information between the F.B.I.
and immigration authorities.

''We are not going to stop this program because of the governors,'' said the
official, who spoke anonymously in order to provide insight into a policy
decision. ''It is a program that is mandated by law that has the support of the
administration and the Congress.''

In the most recent budget, he said, Congress cut many Homeland Security
Department programs but added to the budget sought for Secure Communities.

Under the program, everyone who is booked into jail, immigrants and citizens,
would have their fingerprints checked against F.B.I. criminal databases, as is
routine, and also against Department of Homeland Security databases of
immigration violations.

Secure Communities, initiated in 2008 under the administration of President
George W. Bush, has expanded rapidly under the Obama administration, and is
operating in 1,331 local jurisdictions in 42 states, according to official
figures. Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano has said the program must
be operating nationwide by 2013.

In Massachusetts, Mr. Patrick said last December that he was inclined to join
the program, in part because he believed the state had no choice. In a
half-dozen sometimes stormy public meetings across the state, immigrant
organizations spoke out against the program, saying it was sweeping up illegal
immigrant workers who had not committed crimes and had family members who were
in the United States legally.

Supporters of the program also turned out, making it clear that immigration
could become a sharply divisive issue even in Massachusetts, with its deep
tradition of immigration.

Separate from state authorities, Boston started a Secure Communities pilot
program in 2008. Official figures from Boston showed that 54 percent of the
immigrants deported under the program had no criminal convictions, only civil
immigration violations. Only about one in four deportees under the program had
been convicted of a serious crime, according to the figures.

Massachusetts officials said that Mr. Patrick was eager to avoid any clash with
Mr. Obama over immigration, but would press him to try to pass an overhaul of
immigration laws that would include legal status for illegal immigrants.

''The governor believes, as the president does, in the need for comprehensive
immigration reform at the federal level,'' said Alex Goldstein, Mr. Patrick's
spokesman.

Eva Millona, executive director of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee
Advocacy Coalition, said, ''I have to credit Governor Patrick for focusing on
the problems and not the politics of this program.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

New Effort To Protect Immigrants From Tricks

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 736 words



Immigration officials are teaming up with federal and state prosecutors, the
Federal Trade Commission, lawyers' groups and immigrant advocate organizations
in a new nationwide effort to combat an epidemic of schemes by people posing as
immigration lawyers.

The campaign, which will begin in Washington on Thursday, is an effort by the
Obama administration to step up one form of assistance to immigrant communities,
which have intensified their criticism of President Obama as they have faced a
record pace of deportations in the last two years.

Officials say this is the first time a crackdown on fake immigration lawyers has
been coordinated broadly among federal and state agencies and local immigrant
aid organizations. Federal appeals courts in New York, California and other
regions with major immigrant populations have been deluged with cases of
immigrants who sought legal status through the courts, but ended up in
labyrinths leading to deportation because of incompetent or fraudulent lawyers.

The effort involves a blitz of advertising to alert immigrants on how to
recognize fake lawyers and consultants, and an effort by prosecutors to bring
criminal cases to serve as examples. A program by the immigration court system
will expand the number of local nonprofit organizations trained and certified to
provide basic legal services to immigrants.

The initiative is led by Citizenship and Immigration Services, the federal
agency whose director, Alejandro N. Mayorkas, is a former federal prosecutor in
California. In that position, Mr. Mayorkas said in an interview, he had brought
a number of cases against people illegally practicing immigration law. He said
it was ''heartbreaking'' to learn, when he came to the agency in Washington,
that the problem had not abated.

Since January of last year, the immigration agency has tested the program in
pilots in New York, Los Angeles, San Antonio and four other cities.

In New York, Wilmer Rivera Melendez, a Puerto Rican with a criminal record
including a conviction for bigamy, coaxed as much $75,000 each from 14
immigrants from Guyana, claiming he was an immigration lawyer with two decades'
experience. Most of the immigrants were in deportation proceedings by the time
the Manhattan District Attorney's office stopped him. Mr. Rivera was sentenced
in January to two years in jail.

In another case that convinced officials of the need for wider action, the
Federal Trade Commission filed a complaint in January in Nevada against a
company called Immigration Forms and Publications, which created a Web site
designed to look like the Citizenship and Immigration Services site, complete
with an image of the Statue of Liberty. Telemarketers working for the site
collected hundreds of thousands of dollars in fees for visa forms and services
that immigrants believed were going to the federal agency.

A more common and persistent problem involves notarios, a Spanish word referring
to a type of accountant. Although notarios can perform legal functions in many
Latin American countries, they have no authority to act as lawyers in the United
States. Also, sometimes tax accountants in immigrant communities will offer
immigration services they are not qualified to provide.

''Oftentimes, no documents have been filed for the immigrants, or they have been
filed wrong and kicked back,'' said Reid Trautz, director of the practice and
professionalism center of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. ''It is
a very good thing that a coalition of agencies is coordinating to take this
on,'' Mr. Trautz said.

He said the lawyers association would hold clinics to assist immigrant victims
of fraudulent lawyers, and would provide training in immigration law for
legitimate lawyers in other fields.

The trade commission will gather victims' complaints in a central database.

Officials hope the campaign will ease the overload in the federal appeals
courts, which hear appeals from immigration courts. Judge Harry Pregerson of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in California, said that
court had seen a surge in immigration cases, with 37,990 cases in the last eight
years.

''So many of these people were represented so poorly by incompetent or disbarred
lawyers, or they were snared in the clutches of notarios,'' Judge Pregerson said
in an interview. ''It's a huge scam that has disrupted the lives of thousands of
families.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 10, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Tough Immigration Measure Becomes Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 120 words


Gov. Robert Bentley signed a tough immigration law on Thursday, and several
civil rights groups said they would sue to stop it from taking effect. The law,
which goes beyond an immigration enforcement bill Arizona adopted last year,
requires public schools to determine the immigration status of all students
starting in kindergarten and makes it a crime to knowingly give a ride in a
vehicle to an illegal immigrant. It requires police officers to inquire about
the status of anyone they stop if they suspect the person might be an illegal
immigrant. Calling the law extreme, the Southern Poverty Law Center, the
National Immigration Law Center and the American Civil Liberties Union said they
were preparing a lawsuit.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 19, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Proposal's Bottom Line Is Just That

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 499 words


Like parents threatening to withhold allowance from a misbehaving child,
proponents of a Republican-backed immigration proposal in Texas are warning
local authorities across the state: Comply with the bill or face the fiscal
consequences.

The legislation, by State Senator Tommy Williams, Republican of The Woodlands,
prevents cities, counties and other governmental entities from adopting policies
that prevent law enforcement officers or other employees from inquiring into the
immigration status of a person arrested or lawfully detained. Authorities can
subsequently report individuals to federal immigration officials if they are
thought to be in the country illegally.

If Senate Bill 9, the so-called sanctuary cities bill, passes both chambers of
the Texas Legislature -- which could happen as early as next week -- communities
that prohibit such immigration screenings would lose state grant money. But how
much is uncertain.

''There are few, if any, states that provide less funding to cities than
Texas,'' said John Bender, a spokesman for the Texas Municipal League, which
lobbies for local governments.

The state's conservative spending principles -- and this session's budget cuts
-- could take the sting out of the monetary sanctions. The huge budget shortfall
that led to billions of dollars in cuts to public education and health care also
meant less for cities for several grant programs, according to Municipal League
data.

The organization's numbers indicate that cities across the state may receive as
much as $153.7 million less in the next biennium than the roughly $439.6 million
that they are currently appropriated. The money is already distributed among
several hundred entities, Mr. Bender said. And that dilutes the possible
sanctions even further.

The bill is mired in controversy. Republicans say Texans need to know who is
living within the state, especially when a bloody cartel-fueled drug war rages
just south of the state's border and the federal government refuses to secure
it. Others, mainly Democrats and minorities, claim the legislation is nothing
more than chest-thumping conservative xenophobia.

Under the proposed legislation, local law enforcement would be required to
assist federal immigration officers in certain investigations and allow them
access to municipal and county jails for enforcement activities. A provision of
the bill would allow any citizen to file a complaint against a government entity
if it was believed to have violated the sanctuary cities law.

The Harris County Sheriff's Department, one of the state's largest, has an
annual budget of $382 million, but just 1.5 percent of it comes from state
grants. Still, said Alan Bernstein, a spokesman for the department, that does
not mean authorities there will not enforce the provisions of the bill, should
it pass.

''We don't have a policy telling sheriff's deputies what to do in that
situation, so we won't have to forfeit any state money,'' Mr. Bernstein said.
''And we don't intend to.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Three States Short of a Secure Community

BYLINE: By PETER H. SCHUCK.

Peter H. Schuck, a professor of law at Yale University and New York University,
is the co-editor of ''Understanding America: The Anatomy of an Exceptional
Nation.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 717 words


EARLIER this month, New York and Massachusetts joined Illinois in withdrawing
from Secure Communities, the promising immigration enforcement program that the
Obama administration hopes to extend nationwide by 2013. The effort, begun in
2008 and since expanded to nearly 1,800 jurisdictions in 43 states and
territories, links federal, state and local arrest data with the immigration
status and fingerprint records of the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agency; the agency then uses that information to decide whether to deport
lawbreakers.

The idea behind Secure Communities is to focus enforcement on those immigrants
who pose the greatest public safety threat. The program is far from perfect --
immigration officials sometimes deport minor offenders, like traffic law
violators, rather than the more serious criminals, who should be the top
priority. But by withdrawing from the program, these states are weakening an
essential immigration enforcement tool rather than working to improve it.

Indeed, in many ways Secure Communities is already the sort of program on which
people on all sides of the debate should be able to agree: it piggybacks on
existing technology and databases, and it lets federal agents decide how to
proceed, rather than relying on state and local police officers with little
knowledge of immigration law. It fits seamlessly into established booking
routines, and requires no extra input from localities or training for their
officials.

Even so, many immigrant advocacy groups that pay lip service to the need for
vigorous enforcement oppose Secure Communities and almost any measure that might
actually increase deportations, without proposing any effective enforcement
alternatives. Supporters of Secure Communities respond that the government
should deport even relatively minor offenders, so long as they are here
illegally.

Much of the strife over Secure Communities is simply political: most voters
favor expanding deportation, while immigrant advocacy groups pressure
politicians to oppose anything that might risk racial profiling or disrupt
immigrant families. The result is a patchwork of state laws -- some harsh, some
lenient -- overlaid by a Secure Communities program that some key states are now
attacking. This stalemate not only undermines enforcement, but also impedes
other needed reforms, like a carefully qualified amnesty for some of the more
than 10 million undocumented immigrants living here.

The real issue for Secure Communities is deportation priorities. Serious crimes
by immigrants, like serious crimes by citizens, are properly at the top of the
list. According to the federal government, more than 85,000 deportable
immigrants are already serving time for so-called Level 1 offenses, which
include homicide, kidnapping and major drug offenses. Nevertheless, opponents
rightly complain that too few of those being deported are the more serious
criminals whom the program originally promised to remove.

But deporting the right offenders requires precisely the kind of data-sharing
with local law enforcement that Secure Communities makes possible. Immigration
agents need to receive that information when immigrants are booked into prison
if they are to promptly identify and deport the more dangerous ones.

One tweak, which the federal agency adopted last week, is to give agents and
prosecutors more discretion in how they go after offenders. Other reforms would
seek more local input on how to set deportation priorities, and would provide
incentives for federal officials to fry the bigger fish, not the minnows.

Of course, Secure Communities will always arouse controversy: while we can all
agree that Level 1 offenders should be the first targets, and mere traffic
violators should be the lowest priority, reasonable people will differ about the
many in-between cases. Even some who are guilty only of immigration offenses,
such as previously deported immigrants who have repeatedly returned illegally,
are fair game for federal immigration agents.

Secure Communities is an essential program that is beginning to reshape its
priorities. The three governors who have abandoned the program rather than
working to improve it seem to be making a grand gesture intended more to impress
their political bases than to strengthen immigration enforcement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 30, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Drops Deportation Proceedings Against Immigrant in Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 566 words


In a decision that could have far-reaching effects on immigration cases
involving same-sex couples, federal officials have canceled the deportation of a
Venezuelan man in New Jersey who is married to an American man, the couple's
lawyer said Wednesday.

The announcement comes as immigration officials put into effect new, more
flexible guidelines governing the deferral and cancellation of deportations,
particularly for immigrants with no serious criminal records.

Immigration lawyers and gay rights advocates said the decision represented a
significant shift in policy and could open the door to the cancellation of
deportations for other immigrants in same-sex marriages.

''This action shows that the government has not only the power but the
inclination to do the right thing when it comes to protecting certain vulnerable
populations from deportation,'' said the couple's lawyer, Lavi Soloway.

The case has been closely watched across the country by lawyers and advocates
who viewed it as a test of the federal government's position on the Defense of
Marriage Act, a federal law that bars the federal government from recognizing
same-sex marriages.

In February, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. announced that the
administration viewed the act as unconstitutional and would not defend it in the
courts. Gay rights advocates asked the administration to postpone all
deportations for same-sex married couples until the courts decided whether the
marriage act was constitutional, but the administration said it would continue
to enforce the law.

The Venezuelan man, Henry Velandia, 27, is a salsa dancer who immigrated in 2002
and was legally married last year in Connecticut to Josh Vandiver, 30, a
graduate student at Princeton University. But Mr. Velandia was denied legal
residency as Mr. Vandiver's spouse because of the Defense of Marriage Act. Under
immigration law, an American citizen can petition for legal residency for a
spouse, as long as the spouse is not the same sex.

Last month, an immigration judge in Newark suspended Mr. Velandia's deportation,
saying he wanted to allow time for the attorney general and the courts to work
out whether, under some circumstances, a gay partner might be eligible for
residency.

On June 9, Mr. Soloway received a call from Jane H. Minichiello, the chief
counsel at the Newark office of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of
the Homeland Security Department, informing him that the agency had agreed to
his request to close the deportation proceedings. According to Mr. Soloway, Ms.
Minichiello said pursuing Mr. Velandia's deportation ''is not an enforcement
priority at this time.''

Immigration agency officials confirmed Mr. Soloway's account of the conversation
but would not comment further.

The judge granted the motion to close the case on June 13, and Mr. Soloway
received an official copy of the order on Wednesday.

The decision to cancel the deportation came as federal immigration officials
were thoroughly reviewing their deportation policies.

''I can start breathing now after so many months of fighting,'' said Mr.
Velandia, 27. ''I was holding my breath for fear of any moment being sent
away.''

But he pointed out that while the decision was ''a big step forward,'' it still
did not address the underlying issue of whether same-sex marriages should be
recognized by the federal government.

''The fight isn't over,'' Mr. Velandia said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2011 Monday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

At All-Star Game, Politics and Passion Are Also in Play

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY.

E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1328 words


CORRECTION APPENDED

Demonstrators plan to pass out white ribbons; Phoenix plans to pass out chains.

So it goes in the old immigration game. For all the hopeful blather that the
wealthiest players would take one for a cause, baseball is arriving in broiling
Phoenix, ready for the Home Run Derby and all the feel-good ceremonies and the
All-Star Game itself on Tuesday.

The proposed boycott to protest Arizona's immigration law, known as S.B. 1070,
which would tighten the surveillance and prosecution of suspected illegal
immigrants, has long since turned into a peaceful wearing of white ribbons and
passing out of literature and perhaps some personal criticism of the law from a
few players with social awareness.

To show his respect for the tasteful lowering of tension, Sheriff Joseph M.
Arpaio of Maricopa County said he planned to use one of the county's chain gangs
to clean up the area around Chase Field near downtown Phoenix.

''You think I put the chain gang in the desert where no one could see them?''
Sheriff Joe was quoted saying Wednesday by The Arizona Republic. ''I've never
done that,'' he added, noting that the chain gang members, all convicted of
crimes, will have volunteered for their cleanup duty.

Work crews like this are quite normal for major events, Sheriff Joe reassured
the world. Most likely, he added, any chain gang would include illegal
immigrants. He used chain gangs of D.U.I. offenders during Super Bowl XLII and
unveiled a winking neon ''Vacancy'' sign outside a jail during Super Bowl XXX.
Why should Sheriff Joe change now, just because fans all over the baseball
diaspora will have their eyes on Phoenix for a couple of days?

Welcome to Arizona, ground zero of the debate over illegal immigration. When
Arizona's controversial law was passed in 2010, baseball had long since awarded
the 2011 All-Star Game to Phoenix. There was some chatter about moving the game,
and a few Latino players blurted that they just might boycott the game.

''Unfortunately, they did not move the game,'' said Luis Avila, the president of
Somos America (We Are America), the umbrella group of 25 groups protesting the
Arizona law.

Major League Baseball and Commissioner Bud Selig, who has a home in Arizona, did
not immediately move the game elsewhere, the way N.F.L. Commissioner Paul
Tagliabue had moved the 1993 Super Bowl several years in advance when Arizona
refused to make Martin Luther King's Birthday a paid state holiday.

--

In one sense, baseball was taken off the hook last April when a federal court
ruled against the strictest portions of S.B. 1070. For the moment, critics of
the bill cannot claim that Adrian Gonzalez of the Red Sox or Jose Bautista of
the Blue Jays are likely to be hauled into the pokey for looking vaguely, in the
eyes of some police officer, like somebody who had just crossed the border
without papers.

But they could arrive for the game unable to miss the chain gangs being
displayed by Sheriff Joe just outside the team bus. Welcome to Phoenix,
everybody.

The latest evidence is that immigration from Mexico to the United States is
declining as more Mexicans stay home to work and to be close to their families.
The state is appealing the federal decision to the Supreme Court, which has
recently upheld another Arizona bill that penalizes hiring illegal immigrants.

Critics of the bill will stand as witnesses in the hot sun (a high of 103 is
forecast) and will pass out white ribbons and antibill literature to patrons
heading into the air-conditioned sanctuary of Chase Field.

''We are a diverse state,'' said Avila, 28, who came from Queretaro, Mexico, a
decade ago to study at the University of Arizona and is now an American citizen
and a paid community organizer who volunteers his free time for Somos America.

''We are against knee-jerk talk,'' Avila said. ''We are against divisive
rhetoric.''

Avila says he expected some of the many Latino players in the game to wear
ribbons on their street clothes and to speak out against the bill. Major League
Baseball has given signals that the players are free to air their personal
opinions during the All-Star celebration. Avila says he expects several retired
Latino players to attend and speak against the bill.

Two people who will attend the All-Star Game are Rachel Robinson, the widow of
Jackie Robinson, and Sharon Robinson, the daughter of Jackie and Rachel. Sharon
said she planned to wear a white ribbon because ''I am totally opposed to the
legislation.''

But she is showing up, partly because she is a consultant for Major League
Baseball on an essay contest for children called Breaking Barriers. This year's
winner is Meggie Zahneis, 13, from West Chester, Ohio, who has a rare
neurological disability and wrote an essay tracing her many opportunities to the
promise of America.

''Listening to stories told by my grandma, I realize that back in her day, women
didn't have the same career opportunities or rights as men,'' the young woman
wrote. ''Now that the road has been paved by pioneers such as Susan B. Anthony
and Martin Luther King Jr., anyone can grow up and be our president, as proven
by Barack Obama.''

Since the All-Star Game became caught up in the tensions over immigration, the
name of Jackie Robinson has been bandied about, as some sort of Che Guevara in
spikes.

''I can't speak for him, but the fact is, we are going,'' Sharon Robinson said
for herself and her mother, 88, who is still a force. She said that her father
always showed up to play, and to play hard, but that he would surely have used
the forum of the All-Star Game to make his point about the Arizona bill.

Jackie Robinson's most visceral protest came as a young second lieutenant in
Texas during World War II, when he refused to move to the back of the bus and
went through a court-martial (he was acquitted) before leaving the service. In
his early years with the Brooklyn Dodgers, he heard a lot of the ugly comments,
but in short order, he began speaking out, from the bully pulpit of a hard slide
or a few pointed remarks to reporters after a game. And in his retirement, he
was a Republican, a businessman and an activist during the civil rights era -- a
presence, not an absence.

''My father marched with Dr. King down south, he went to the church in
Birmingham where the little girls were killed,'' Sharon Robinson said the other
day. ''He took the whole family to the March on Washington in 1963. I was 13,
and I remember how hot it was, and I heard Dr. King speak. Later we held a jazz
concert in our house in Connecticut to raise money for Dr. King, who came to our
house.''

Roberto Clemente became America's great Latin sporting hero the moment his
flimsy charter plane crashed into the sea off his native Puerto Rico on New
Year's Eve in 1972, while he was ferrying goods to earthquake-stricken
Nicaragua. Having been around the Pirates during the turbulent 1960s, I can
guarantee that if Clemente were alive today, he would be showing up in Phoenix,
with something to say.

The Major League Baseball Players Association, whose current membership is about
30 percent Latino, has opposed the bill from the beginning. But the executive
director, Michael Weiner, has not urged players to skip the game or to take any
unified action.

--

''The Major League Baseball Players Association opposes this law as written,''
Weiner said in a statement Friday. ''We hope that the law is repealed or
modified promptly. If the current law goes into effect, the M.L.B.P.A. will
consider additional steps necessary to protect the rights and interests of our
members.'' But he never mentioned the words boycott or protest.

It was always a dodgy proposition to expect highly diverse millionaire
ballplayers to be way out ahead of the rest of us. The issue belongs to
Americans like Luis Avila and millions of other Americans, particularly those
who live near the Mexican border and are entitled to their own views on
immigration and S.B. 1070. The All-Star Game goes on, with white ribbons and
chains.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 2011 Monday



CORRECTION: The Sports of The Times column last Monday, about the muted
opposition to Major League Baseball's decision to keep its All-Star Game in
Phoenix after the passage of Arizona's immigration law, misstated the date that
the executive director of the players union, Michael Weiner, issued a statement
expressing opposition to the law but not calling for a player boycott of the
event. The statement that was quoted was made on April 30 -- not on July 8, when
a similar statement was also issued, noting that portions of the immigration law
had been judged unlawful.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Forgetful Mr. Smith

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 336 words


President Obama's top immigration enforcer, John Morton, recently instructed his
officials to take mitigating factors into account, like an immigrant's family
ties in the United States and education status, when deciding which deportation
cases to pursue. It was not a major breakthrough, but it was sensible and
humane, which is why it drew the ire of Representative Lamar Smith, who thinks
Mr. Obama is too soft on illegal immigrants.

Mr. Smith, who heads the House Judiciary Committee, on Tuesday introduced a bill
to suspend the executive branch's ability to use discretion in immigration
cases. He would not suspend it for every president, just this one.

In a memo to colleagues, he said his proposed law would expire at the end of Mr.
Obama's term, when it would ''restore these powers to the next president whom
the American people elect -- on January 22, 2013.''

The idea behind the discretion is that immigration officials cannot go after
everybody, so it makes sense to focus resources on people worth worrying about,
like drug dealers, gang members and violent criminals. This is standard practice
everywhere in law enforcement.

Without this authority, the administration would be barred from deferring the
removal of people who it decides should be low priorities on the deportation
list. They could be stable members of their communities, with citizens in their
families; or students brought here as children by their parents. They could be
temporarily stuck here because their home countries were devastated by natural
disasters.

Back in 1999, Mr. Smith was one of several members of Congress who wrote the
attorney general and the head of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
arguing that ''unfair'' deportations had caused ''unjustifiable hardship'' for
otherwise law-abiding immigrants who had jobs and families and close citizen
relatives. ''True hardship cases call for the exercise of discretion,'' the
letter said.

Hard to explain the change, although hypocrisy and rank opportunism seem likely.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Plenty of Action Before the Game, Not Much of It on Immigration Law

BYLINE: By KAREN CROUSE

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 805 words


PHOENIX -- The All-Star Game parade was snaking along Jefferson Street on
Tuesday afternoon when a rancorous voice rang out from the crowd.

Rebecca Garcia leaned over a guardrail and addressed the Arizona Diamondbacks'
bobcat mascot, Baxter, who was pawing a Dodgers cap as he strutted across the
red-carpeted street.

''Step on it! Step on it!'' she screamed. ''Beat L.A.!''

It was the loudest grievance voiced all day and it would not go unheard. Baxter
gave Garcia a thumbs-up, placed the Dodgers cap on the carpet and stood back as
a pickup truck carrying Washington Nationals pitcher Tyler Clippard ran over it.

The midsummer classic at Chase Field did not foment significant protests over
illegal immigration, as many predicted (and a few promised) in the wake of the
passage last year of S.B. 1070, which would tighten the surveillance and
prosecution of suspected illegal immigrants. There had been talk of
demonstrators passing out white ribbons to protest the law.

But hours before the game, which the National League won, 5-1, the white
accessory sported by seemingly every other fan filing into the stadium was a
hotel chain's promotional tea towel, which could be redeemed for $75 off a
two-night stay.

In the end, commerce trumped conscience. It was no mystery why the fervor over
the immigration law was as flat as a half-full can of soda left in the
100-degree heat.

The sign of the times was not carried by any protester. It was a billboard a
mile and a half from the stadium that offered personal loans for people with
unexpected bills.

For a state hard hit by the recession, the bustling downtown before the sold-out
game was a welcome sight, like a rainbow after a devastating storm.

''Look at all the people who are coming in and enjoying this,'' said Garcia, an
Arizona native. A few blocks away, her sentiments were echoed by Sam Carter, who
said: ''Arizona is a broke state. Arizona needs this.''

Carter, a mechanic, was with his friend Francisco Cantu who had spent the
morning in court. Cantu said he crashed Carter's car into an apartment complex.
While investigating the accident, the police charged him with marijuana
possession -- but did not ask him for proof of citizenship.

The 82nd All-Star Game had already been awarded to Phoenix when S.B. 1070 was
passed. There was talk of moving the game, which longtime Arizonans like Joe
Rhein knew better than to dismiss as an idle threat.

The 1993 Super Bowl was shifted from Phoenix to Pasadena, Calif., because of
Arizona's refusal to observe the holiday for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.
Citizens eventually voted to make it a paid holiday, and the 1996 Super Bowl was
held in Arizona.

''In our case, over the long term, I thought everything worked out well,''
Rhein, the point man for Arizona's 1993 Super Bowl bid, said in a telephone
interview.

He added, ''It was very important for the Diamondbacks, as an organization, to
host the All-Star Game because they are still a relatively young organization,
just like the Cardinals were to Arizona in 1993.''

The downtown area was festooned in red-white-and-blue bunting and had the feel
of a belated Fourth of July block party. Along the parade route, team mascots
threw trinkets into the crowd: red-white-and-blue bead necklaces and rubber
balls and the like.

A little off the red-carpeted path, Karl Wolf of the Big Papa -- not to be
confused with David Ortiz, a k a Big Papi -- ferried fans to Chase Field on his
bicycle taxi.

The carnival scene included religious barkers. Three men stood on the corner of
Washington and Third and took turns preaching to people making their way to the
convention center for Fan Fest. Unlike the major league players who had floated
the idea of boycotting the All-Star Game after the passage of the immigration
law, Robert Gray, Bobby McCreery and Rick Skeens had the courage of their
convictions.

''This is not a protest,'' McCreery said. ''It's a proclamation.''

One could find protesters, but they were not taking up the cause of illegal
immigration. A block from the parade route, near the gleaming Alliance Bank
building, four union members belonging to Carpenters Local 408 were handing out
fliers denouncing unfair labor standards.

Nothing could dampen the spirits of Tidbit, a Cubs fan from St. Louis attending
her 43rd consecutive All-Star Game. She was impossible to miss in sunglasses
tinted with the Cubs logo and a jersey dress adorned with the logos of all the
N.L. teams.

Tidbit, 56, said she was part of a pack of fans who traveled to every All-Star
Game. A few of the regulars, she said, chose to boycott this year's event. But
nothing was going to keep her from being here. She grew teary as she explained
this could be her last All-Star Game because she already has endured a liver
transplant and now her kidneys are failing.

''This is my World Series,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The family of the youngest victim killed in the attack on
Representative Gabrielle Giffords, John Green, left, his wife, Roxanna, and
their son, Dallas, gave the lineup cards to the umpires. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK J.
TERRILL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Farmers Oppose G.O.P. Bill to Require Verification of Workers' Immigration
Status

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY and JULIA PRESTON; Jesse McKinley reported from
Patterson, Calif., and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1297 words


PATTERSON, Calif. -- Farmers across the country are rallying to fight a
Republican-sponsored bill that would force them and all other employers to
verify the legal immigration status of their workers, a move some say could
imperil not only future harvests but also the agricultural community's
traditional support for conservative candidates.

The bill was proposed by Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is
the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee. It would require farmers -- who
have long relied on a labor force of immigrants, a majority here without legal
documents -- to check all new hires through E-Verify, a federal database run by
the Department of Homeland Security devised to ferret out illegal immigrants.

Farm laborers, required like other workers to show that they are authorized to
take jobs in the United States, often present Social Security numbers and some
form of picture ID. Employers, many of them labor contractors providing crews to
farms, have not been required to check the information and are discouraged by
antidiscrimination laws from looking at it too closely. But it is an open secret
that many farmworkers' documents are false.

Supporters of E-Verify, an electronic system that is currently mandatory for
most federal contractors but voluntary for other employers, argue that it would
eliminate any doubt about workers' legal status. But farmers say it could
cripple a $390 billion industry that relies on hundreds of thousands of willing,
low-wage immigrant workers to pick, sort and package everything from avocados to
zucchini.

''This would be an emergency, a dire, dire situation,'' said Nancy Foster,
president of the U.S. Apple Association, adding that the prospect of an E-Verify
check would most likely mean that many immigrant workers would simply not show
up. ''We will end up closing down.''

That sentiment is echoed by growers like George Bonacich, an 81-year-old apricot
farmer who has been working the same patch of land in Patterson, 80 miles east
of San Francisco, since 1969.

This year, Mr. Bonacich employed up to 100 farmhands to pick a total of 50 to
100 tons each day, often in triple-digit heat. He speaks passionately about his
employees -- ''They're good people, hard-working,'' he said -- and plainly about
what would happen if E-Verify were to become the law of the farmland.

''If we don't have enough labor at peak time, the fruit goes on the ground,'' he
said. ''The fruit will only stay on the tree so long.''

While Mr. Smith's bill seems to have a good chance of passing the House, the
Senate, controlled by Democrats, appears more skeptical. Democrats have said
they will point to a Congressional Budget Office report on a similar bill that
concluded it would cost the federal government $22 billion over a decade, from
lost tax revenues now collected from the paychecks of illegal immigrants
ineligible for services.

In a May letter to the members of the Judiciary Committee, Bob Stallman, the
president of the American Farm Bureau, cited a Labor Department survey placing
the percentage of illegal workers in the fields at more than 50 percent. Other
groups say the figure is closer to 70 percent. Denying farmers that labor
supply, Mr. Stallman wrote, would cost them $5 billion to $9 billion annually.

Mr. Smith's bill has attracted more solid support from nonagricultural business
leaders, opening a divide between them and agricultural interests. Many nonfarm
businesses have concluded that some form of employee verification is inevitable.

National organizations of restaurant owners and home builders gave their
backing. The San Antonio Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, which unites Latino
businesses in Mr. Smith's district that have often been at odds with him, is
leaning toward endorsing the bill, said Ramiro A. Cavazos, the president of the
chamber.

Still, Mr. Smith, whose district includes parts of suburban San Antonio and
Austin as well as a large part of the nearby Hill Country, recently acknowledged
the surge of worry in rural areas. He said he would soon introduce a separate
bill to ''address the needs of the agriculture industry,'' either proposing
changes to the current federal temporary farm worker program, known as H-2A, or
offering a new guest worker program.

Mr. Smith's E-Verify bill also includes a three-year grace period before growers
would have to comply. But such caveats have done little to quell opposition from
farm groups, who have been pleading for years for an overhaul to allow a legal
immigrant work force.

And that discontent could manifest itself in elections, farm representatives
warn.

''Most of our folks are Republicans,'' said Paul Wenger, the president of the
California Farm Bureau. ''But if the Republicans do this to them without a
workable worker program, it will change their voting patterns or at very least
their involvement in politics.''

Mr. Smith said requiring employers to determine that new hires were eligible to
work would prevent illegal immigrants from taking jobs at a time of high
joblessness for Americans. ''We could open up millions of jobs for unemployed
Americans and legal workers,'' he said.

But farmers and their advocates scoff at that notion, saying that regardless of
high unemployment, few American workers are willing to sign up for what are
often hard, hot and long hours in the fields.

''People just don't want to do farm work,'' Mr. Wenger said. ''They don't want
to pick berries. They don't want to pick lettuce. And the pay is just as good as
working at the hamburger shop or making up hotel rooms, but they just don't want
to do the work.''

Mike Carlton, director of labor relations for the Florida Fruit and Vegetables
Association, agreed. He said his group monitored hiring by citrus growers, who
are required to offer jobs to Americans before they can turn to the H-2A program
for temporary foreign laborers.

In one sample, Mr. Carlton said, 344 Americans came forward to fill 1,800
pickers' jobs; only eight were still working at the end of the two-month season.

Mr. Carlton said Florida growers had flocked to Washington, telling lawmakers
they had glimpsed the possible impact of Mr. Smith's proposal after a
verification mandate narrowly failed in the Florida Legislature this spring.
''Just the prospect of it, and some of our workers left the state,'' Mr. Carlton
said.

Labor shortages were also reported by Georgia growers, said Charles Hall, the
executive director of the Georgia Fruit and Vegetable Growers Association, after
lawmakers there imposed a state mandate to use E-Verify this spring.

Some of the most forceful feedback has come from Mr. Smith's home state, where
farmers have the backing of the larger Texas Business Association. The group
used its clout recently to kill an immigration crackdown law in the State
Legislature, even though it was supported by Gov. Rick Perry, a possible
Republican presidential contender.

''I think Mr. Smith realizes what his legislation would do to agriculture,''
said Steve Pringle, the legislative director for the Texas Farm Bureau, which
claims some 400,000 members. ''I think that's been made very clear to him.''

Most growers oppose efforts to expand the H-2A program, which they say is
hopelessly bureaucratic and too slow for fast-moving harvests. They favor
measures that would grant legal status, at least temporarily, to illegal
immigrant farm workers already in the country. But that idea is anathema to Mr.
Smith.

Mr. Bonacich, the apricot farmer, said that worries about finding legal workers
would just add another variable to the delicate equation of a farmer's bottom
line.

''Out here, we count the money by the minute,'' Mr. Bonacich said. ''And if we
don't have the labor and we don't have people in the fields, a couple of days
can make all the difference.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers sorting dried apricots at George Bonacich's farm in
Patterson, Calif. (A12)
 George Bonacich inspecting dried apricots at the processing facility on his
farm in Patterson, Calif., with Rosalba Ortega Barragan, a longtime worker at
the farm and a new American citizen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 31, 2011 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                                National Edition

Analysis Reveals Asylum Records of Judges

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1247 words


The Mexican journalist Emilio Gutierrez has sought political asylum in the
United States since June 2008, when he and his teenage son fled the small town
of Ascension, Chihuahua, in the pre-dawn hours and arrived at the Antelope
Wells, N.M., border crossing.

Threatened by the Mexican military for his reporting on its alleged human rights
abuses, Mr. Gutierrez says returning to his native land is a certain death
sentence. Whether an asylum judge will agree, however, is far less clear.

A new analysis of the decisions of United States immigration court judges finds
that at least two of the five immigration judges in El Paso, where Mr.
Gutierrez's case is being considered, have a far higher denial rate than the
national average. The report, by the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse,
a nonpartisan center based at Syracuse University that tracks the enforcement
activities of the federal government, analyzed the decisions of 265 immigration
judges across the country who have ruled in at least 100 political asylum cases
in the last five years. On average, over that period, immigration judges
rejected 53.2 percent of asylum applications.

But William L. Abbott and Thomas C. Roepke, both judges in El Paso, had a
combined rejection rate of 83.3 percent in 346 cases -- most from Mexico and
Central America -- decided between 2006 and July 2011. Mr. Roepke denied asylum
requests in 96.7 percent of his cases -- the third-highest rejection rate among
the judges included in the Syracuse report.

The denial rate for Mr. Gutierrez's judge, Robert Hough, was not determined
because he had decided fewer than 100 cases. Earlier this year, Mr. Gutierrez's
case was postponed until May 2012. The long delay is indicative of another
problem highlighted in the Syracuse study: the system is overwhelmed, resulting
in a significant backlog of cases.

''It's not an intentional delay; it's a bureaucratic mess,'' said Carlos
Spector, Mr. Gutierrez's El Paso lawyer. ''The system mitigates against the
delivery of justice because these asylum cases are complicated.''

Mr. Spector estimates he will need at least 20 hours before the judge to present
witnesses on behalf of Mr. Gutierrez. He has also filed a petition with the
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, alleging that the Mexican government
falls short in its ability to protect its citizens from the military.

To win political asylum, foreign nationals must prove to a judge that they have
been persecuted in the past or have a well-founded fear of persecution in the
future based on five specific statutory grounds: race, religion, nationality,
political opinion or membership in a particular social group. About 33,000
people applied for political asylum in the United States in fiscal year 2010,
according to the Executive Office of Immigration Review; Texas handled about 800
of those cases.

Mr. Gutierrez was detained for seven months because he lacked permission to
enter the United States, but he is now living in a location he prefers not to
disclose for security reasons (his son was detained for two months before being
released).

Why there are such stark differences among immigration judges is unclear. The
Syracuse study has tracked political asylum decisions since 1994 and has called
the disparities ''disturbing,'' noting that ''the unusual persistence of these
disparities -- no matter how the asylum cases are examined -- indicates that the
identity of the judge who handles a particular matter often is more important
than the underlying facts.''

The Executive Office for Immigration Review, which is part of the United States
Department of Justice, oversees one part of the political asylum process and
appoints the immigration judges. Officials there did not respond to a request
for comment on the Syracuse study or on Mr. Gutierrez's case.

Mr. Spector, who for more than 20 years has represented asylum seekers, believes
that those from Mexico face a higher threshold because the United States has a
significant financial and political interest in supporting the Mexican
government in its struggle with narcotics traffickers and drug cartels.

''There is a political predisposition by the judges to deny Mexican asylum
claims for political and policy reasons,'' Mr. Spector said. And because
immigration judges ''have been government employees for so long, they get the
memo,'' he said, adding that immigration judges are often recruited from the
ranks of prosecutors or law enforcement.

Dana Leigh Marks, an immigration judge in California and the president of the
National Association of Immigration Judges, says it is not so simple, although
she does agree that foreign policy interests are a factor in political asylum
decisions.

''Immigration judges are required to consult and incorporate in their decisions
the official country report published by the United States Department of State
in any asylum case,'' she said. ''Obviously our foreign relations position with
regard to a country from which the asylum seeker comes is an important factor in
the judge's decision.''

The State Department's 2010 country report on Mexico catalogs a long list of
human rights abuses, in addition to the widespread violence caused by the
cartels and the drug trade generally: ''unlawful killings by security forces;
kidnappings; physical abuse; poor and overcrowded prison conditions; arbitrary
arrests and detention; corruption, inefficiency and lack of transparency that
engendered impunity within the judicial system; confessions coerced through
torture; violence and threats against journalists leading to self-censorship.''

Because Mr. Gutierrez, who wrote for an affiliate of El Diario de Juarez, was
documenting crimes allegedly committed by Mexican military personnel and there
is no evidence those people have been brought to justice, he and Mr. Spector
argue that he meets the criteria for political asylum.

Jacqueline L. Watson, an immigration lawyer in Austin, says it is always a
gamble to think a case is solid enough to convince a judge. She says it is
difficult to convince judges that there is an imminent threat to life or
liberty.

''Unfortunately it's almost like they left too soon,'' she said. ''It is as if
one can say, 'Oh yeah, congratulations, you saved your life but you didn't stick
around long enough to almost be killed and live to tell about it.' ''

One potential bright spot for Mr. Gutierrez is that he has legal representation.
According to the Syracuse analysis, almost 90 percent of those seeking political
asylum who were not represented by a lawyer were denied.

As he waits, Mr. Gutierrez remains optimistic he will be given asylum. He also
scoffs at analysts who say the security situation in Mexico is exaggerated or
even improving.

''Tell them to go live in Juarez to see if it's getting better,'' he said.
''They need to live there.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 7, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article last Sunday about a new analysis of the decisions by United States
immigration court judges in defensive political asylum cases misstated the
number of applicants who filed for such asylum in the 2010 fiscal year,
according to the Executive Office of Immigration Review. It is about 33,000, not
about 19,500, which is the estimated number of cases that were either granted or
denied. The article also misspelled the name of the town that Emilio Gutierrez,
a Mexican journalist, fled. It is Ascension, not Ascenscion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Emilio Gutierrez in New Mexico in 2010. Mr. Gutierrez, a
journalist, fled his native Mexico after receiving death threats from the
military and has been seeking asylum since 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIAN
AGUILAR/THE TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Council Bill Would Curb Assistance by Rikers to Immigration Officials

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 895 words


Rikers Island officials have long compiled lists of foreign-born inmates who end
up in their custody. They routinely give this information to federal immigration
officials, who have their own office at the jail. Deportations often follow.

With the city's assistance, immigration authorities annually detain and deport
thousands of inmates charged with a range of offenses, from misdemeanors for
theft to felony drug dealing.

But now the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, wants to curtail this
practice by permitting the jail to cooperate with the federal immigration
authorities only in limited circumstances.

Ms. Quinn is proposing legislation, to be introduced this month, that could
touch off tensions over immigrant rights between the City Council and Mayor
Michael R. Bloomberg, who has defended the program in the past.

''On Rikers, there is a dragnet as it relates to every foreign-born person,''
Ms. Quinn said. ''Stop needlessly and excessively deporting people.''

Ms. Quinn, a Manhattan Democrat who is a candidate for mayor in 2013, added that
she had deep support on the City Council, saying, ''I could pass this bill and
override a veto.''

Opponents said the bill would improperly tie the hands of immigration officers,
threatening public safety and weakening federal law.

The role of states and localities in immigration enforcement is a highly
contentious issue across the United States. Some jurisdictions assert that the
federal government has not done enough and have tightened their own laws. Others
have characterized the federal response as overbearing, and refused to help
Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

In June, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo suspended New York's participation in a key
federal program, called Secure Communities, that makes it easier for immigration
authorities to access the fingerprints of everyone booked into a local jail and
to begin deportation proceedings against noncitizens.

The program at Rikers, which also operates in jails across the country, is
supposed to be aimed at criminals who have committed serious offenses.

Federal authorities at Rikers place holds, or ''detainers,'' on noncitizen
inmates they want to deport. The detainers let the city jail hold inmates for 48
hours after their scheduled release, so they can be transferred to immigration
custody.

Mr. Bloomberg has defended the arrangement, calling it a public safety measure.
Administration officials declined to comment on the proposed bill, saying they
had not yet seen it.

Proponents of tough immigration laws said the City Council was impinging on
federal jurisdiction.

''It's a bad idea, unequivocally,'' said Jessica Vaughan, director of policy
studies at the Center for Immigration Studies in Washington, which favors
reduced immigration. ''They are essentially playing Russian roulette with public
safety and putting people at risk needlessly, all because of the politics of
immigration.''

Daniel J. Halloran, a Republican councilman from Queens, said he was skeptical
of the bill's legality. ''You're legislating in the realm of the federal
government,'' he said. ''Do we even have the authority to do this?''

Ms. Quinn and other supporters of the legislation, including Robert M.
Morgenthau, the former Manhattan district attorney, contend that the practice
largely sweeps up inmates without criminal records -- for example, people who
are arrested and sent to Rikers but then have charges dropped.

In 2009, about 50 percent of the inmates flagged by federal authorities had no
prior conviction, and about 20 percent had a misdemeanor as their highest prior
conviction, according to statistics compiled by the City Council.

The legislation, co-sponsored by Melissa Mark-Viverito, a Democrat who
represents East Harlem, and Daniel Dromm, a Democrat who represents Jackson
Heights, Queens, would not end the program entirely.

It would instead forbid prison officials to hold for an extra 48 hours
immigrants who were not defendants in pending criminal cases, had no prior
convictions or outstanding warrants, had not been ordered deported previously
and did not show up on the terrorist watch list.

That means that immigrants, even if they were here illegally, would be released
if prosecutors declined to press charges against them, no matter if federal
officials wanted them deported.

Luis Martinez, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, declined to
comment on the legislation, but said the agency ''will continue to pursue its
mandate to protect public safety by aggressively seeking out foreign-born
criminals before they can be released back into the public.''

But Andrew Friedman, co-executive director of Make the Road New York, part of a
coalition that worked on the bill, called the federal policy misguided.

''It's a tremendous step forward for the city to say clearly to the feds, 'We're
not willing to undermine our relationship with New Yorkers in order to
facilitate unjust deportations.' '' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 3, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A
picture caption on Tuesday with an article about a bill to curb the deportations
of immigrants at Rikers Island who are referred to federal authorities misstated
the relationship between Amita Lopez and an immigrant who was deported. The
immigrant was Ms. Lopez's roommate and close friend -- not her husband.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amita Lopez, in the Bronx, said a program at Rikers Island led
to her husband's deportation. With the city's assistance, immigration
authorities annually detain and deport thousands of inmates charged with a range
of offenses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUY CALAF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 6, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deal to Share Fingerprints Is Dropped, Not Program

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE and JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 540 words


Federal immigration officials announced Friday that they were terminating the
joint agreements with state and local governments that have been at the center
of a controversy surrounding a national fingerprint-sharing program, although
they said they would continue setting up the program unilaterally.

In a letter to 40 governors and local officials who had signed the agreements,
John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the
change was intended to eliminate widespread confusion, which has plagued the
program since its kickoff in 2008, over whether the agreements were necessary to
initiate it. The move also seemed intended to remove political pressure from
local officials who felt uneasy about appearing to collaborate with federal
authorities on immigration enforcement.

The decision was met with a chorus of angry criticism from immigrant groups.
More than 200 immigrant advocacy groups recently signed a letter demanding that
the Obama administration suspend the program until changes are made to ensure
that illegal immigrants who are not criminals are not deported. But Friday's
move made clear that the administration had no intention of suspending or even
slowing the pace of the program.

The agreements, called memorandums of agreement, laid out the guidelines for
setting up the program, known as Secure Communities, which is being rolled out
across the country and is scheduled to be in effect nationwide by 2013.

Under the program, a cornerstone of the Obama administration's enforcement
strategy, the fingerprints of everyone booked into a local or county jail are
automatically sent to the Department of Homeland Security and compared with
prints in the agency's files, which record immigration violations.

Immigration officials insist that the program is intended to identify and deport
the most serious noncitizen criminals as well as those who threaten national
security. But critics have argued that the program has resulted in the
deportations of a disproportionate number of foreigners guilty only of low-level
offenses, like traffic infractions, or immigration violations.

This year, the governors of Illinois, New York and Massachusetts, in the belief
that Secure Communities was voluntary, announced they were suspending or
canceling their participation in the program.

But since at least last fall, federal officials have insisted that the program
was never voluntary and could be carried out across the country without the
consent of local or state officials.

In a letter to Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware on Friday, Mr. Morton said that his
agency was canceling the agreements because it had determined that they were
''not required to activate or operate Secure Communities.''

''We are going to bring to an end any questions about whether or not we are
requiring any state involvement in immigration enforcement,'' a senior official
from Immigration and Customs Enforcement said in an interview on Friday.

Obama administration officials have explained that as long as local
jurisdictions continue to share fingerprints with the F.B.I. -- a routine
procedure -- then the fingerprints will automatically flow into a general
federal database accessible to Homeland Security Department officials.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

An Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 176 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Farmers Oppose G.O.P. Bill to Require Verification of Workers' Immigration
Status'' (news article, July 31):

As your article documents, Representative Lamar Smith's bill to make E-Verify
mandatory would be a self-inflicted wound to American agriculture. Two-thirds of
the farm work force is made up of undocumented immigrants.

This bill would drive workers underground and close many farms, killing jobs in
processing, marketing and transportation, and requiring us to import more food
from foreign countries.

Instead of this damaging and costly proposal, a real solution to the crisis in
American agriculture is on the table. AgJobs is a bipartisan bill that combines
a path to citizenship for undocumented farm workers with visa reforms that
employers want.

Congress should reject this threat to American agriculture and pass a solution
that legalizes experienced workers and ensures the industry's future.

FRANK SHARRY Washington, Aug. 1, 2011

The writer is executive director of America's Voice, an immigration reform
advocacy organization.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Policy Resulting in Wave of Deportations Draws Protests

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Ian Lovett contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1162 words


A program that is central to President Obama's immigration enforcement strategy
has drawn protests by Latino and immigrant organizations in six cities in the
last two days, as those groups stepped up their confrontation with the
administration over the fast pace of deportations.

In Los Angeles, about 200 immigrants and their supporters walked out of a stormy
hearing Monday evening that was called by a task force advising the enforcement
program, known as Secure Communities. Bearing signs that said ''Stop Ripping
Families Apart,'' the protesters called for an end to the program, which they
said had led to the deportation of victims who reported domestic violence to the
police, and to parents of American citizen children.

On Tuesday in Chicago, several dozen protesters delivered thousands of petitions
calling for an end to the program to the headquarters of Mr. Obama's re-election
campaign. Petitions were also delivered by small groups of protesters to
Democratic Party offices in Miami, Atlanta, Houston and Charlotte, N.C.

About two dozen prominent immigrant advocacy organizations issued a report
denouncing the program and calling on the administration to halt it.

Organizers said the protests were a response to an announcement on Aug. 5 by
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the federal agency that runs Secure
Communities, that the program would continue to expand to meet its declared goal
of covering the whole country by 2013. Clarifying doubts about whether states
and cities could choose whether to participate, John Morton, the agency's
director, said that agreements with state and local officials were not required
for the agency to proceed.

President Obama has made no headway in a divided Congress toward an immigration
overhaul that would give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants. At the
same time, in each of the last two years immigration authorities have deported
nearly 400,000 people.

Under Secure Communities, fingerprints of anyone booked into jail by the state
and local police are sent to the F.B.I. for criminal checks -- long a routine
practice -- and also to the Department of Homeland Security, which records
immigration violations. Immigration agents decide whether to detain noncitizens
signaled by fingerprint matches.

The ferment on Tuesday exposed vastly differing views of the program between
immigrant advocates and Obama administration officials. In an interview, Mr.
Morton said the program was working effectively to carry out his agency's focus
on deporting immigrants convicted of serious crimes.

''It's the law, and we think it is very good policy, to focus our resources on
people who are here unlawfully and also committing crimes,'' Mr. Morton said.

He said agency figures showed that about 90 percent of those deported under
Secure Communities since it was started in 2008 were either convicted criminals
or foreigners who had failed to obey a court order to leave the country or who
had returned to the United States illegally after deportation.

Immigration officials pointed to the arrest in January in Los Angeles of a
Mexican man on charges of driving with a suspended license. After a Secure
Communities match, the police learned that he had been convicted of drug
trafficking and burglary and deported six times. Another Mexican arrested in Los
Angeles was found to have been convicted in the killing of a child in 1997.

Mr. Morton said he had created the advisory task force, which went to work in
June, to recommend fixes that would lower the numbers of deportations of illegal
immigrants who did not have criminal convictions.

Also on Tuesday, the American Immigration Lawyers Association published a report
that cast light on how Secure Communities and other enforcement programs have
stirred tensions in immigrant communities. The association, which includes
11,000 immigration lawyers, polled its members to see how many were handling
cases of immigrants facing deportation after being stopped by local police
officers for minor offenses, like traffic violations.

Gregory Chen, director of advocacy for the lawyers' association, said his office
was deluged with responses.

''Department of Homeland Security practices have ushered in a sea change in who
is being deported, and our attorneys have literally been flooded with people
coming in to their offices who have been picked up by local police for small
time stuff,'' Mr. Chen said. The report, which presents a sample of 127 cases
from 24 states, was the ''the tip of the iceberg,'' he said.

The lawyers' report includes the recent case of an immigrant in New Mexico
detained for deportation after the local police questioned him about burning
leaves in the front yard. A woman in Minnesota was held by federal agents after
the traffic police stopped her saying she failed to signal a right turn. An
immigrant facing deportation from Florida was a passenger in a vehicle pulled
over in a traffic stop; the vehicle was driven by his wife, a United States
citizen.

In 87 cases, the report found, the illegal immigrants facing deportation had no
criminal history, and 79 of them were close relatives of American citizens or
legal permanent residents. Many had lived for more than a decade in the United
States.

''Fundamentally, D.H.S. is saying one thing but doing another,'' Mr. Chen said,
arguing that the lawyers' findings contradicted figures provided by immigration
officials. He said the agency, by detaining large numbers of immigrants after
minor offenses, was ''distorting its own mission of focusing on public safety
and national security risks.''

Eleanor Pelta, the president of the lawyers' association, urged Mr. Morton to
improve screening procedures so that arrests by local police did not lead
automatically to federal deportation.

Cecilia Munoz, the White House official who oversees immigration policy, said
Mr. Obama strongly favored Secure Communities because he does not have the
option of saying, ''While I'm waiting for Congress to come forward, I am not
going to bother to enforce the law.''

The program is ''the best tool we have,'' she said, ''to enforce the law in the
best possible way.''

Fear and frustration about Secure Communities spilled over during the hearing on
Monday in Los Angeles, one of five organized by the task force. One speaker,
Isaura Garcia, 20, said she had been reported to immigration authorities by the
Los Angeles police after she called 911 when she was beaten by her boyfriend.

The program drew praise from a representative of a Los Angeles County
supervisor, Michael D. Antonovich, a Republican. But an official from the office
of Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa, a Democrat, echoed immigrants' criticisms.

Shouting erupted after one citizen, Julio Giron, yelled from the crowd to defend
the program, which he said was needed because Mr. Obama had failed to secure the
border. Soon after, most of the opponents, who significantly outnumbered the
supporters, marched out, calling on the task force to resign.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Chicago on Tuesday, a protest against policies leading to
deportations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Demiraj's Nightmare

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 383 words


Edmond Demiraj is trapped. An Albanian gangster, Bill Bedini, wants to kill him
and harm his family. The United States wants to deport Mr. Demiraj's wife and
teenage son from Texas to Albania, where they will no doubt be in great danger
from Mr. Bedini. Mr. Demiraj keeps pleading with the federal authorities for
help, and keeps losing.

The trouble started a decade ago, after Mr. Demiraj agreed to be a witness
against Mr. Bedini in a human-smuggling case. Mr. Demiraj, then an illegal
immigrant, thought he had a deal: testify for the government in return for its
protection. But Mr. Bedini fled to Albania.

The government decided it had no further use for Mr. Demiraj and deported him to
Albania, where Mr. Bedini tracked him down, shot him and left him for dead. Mr.
Bedini also kidnapped three of Mr. Demiraj's nieces to force them into sexual
slavery.

Mr. Demiraj survived the shooting, and he and his nieces escaped to the United
States. The nieces won asylum, and Mr. Demiraj was granted ''withholding of
removal,'' which means he will not be deported. But Mr. Demiraj's protection
does not extend to his wife and son.

There have been inconsistent asylum decisions before, but this one is especially
awful. It involves the same family, the same persecutor, the same facts agreed
upon by all sides. But an immigration judge, the Board of Immigration Appeals
and two federal appeals court judges in New Orleans say Mr. Demiraj's wife and
son have not shown, as asylum law requires, that they are being persecuted
because they belong to a particular social group.

In this case, the social group is the Demiraj family, of which wife and son are
obviously members. But the judges and the board have ruled that Mr. Bedini is
persecuting them not because they belong to that group but because of his
particular hatred for Mr. Demiraj.

''Mrs. Demiraj is at risk because Bedini seeks to hurt Mr. Demiraj by hurting
her -- not because he has a generalized desire to hurt the Demiraj family as
such,'' the court wrote in a 2-to-1 ruling. That distorts both law and logic.

The dissenting judge had it right: The danger to Mrs. Demiraj and her son lies
in being a Demiraj, and any rational reading of asylum law would provide them
protection. We hope the Supreme Court hears the case and reaches that
conclusion.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Not Mincing Words Over Asylum

BYLINE: By JAMES WARREN.

jwarren@chicagonewscoop.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 21B

LENGTH: 779 words


James Warren writes a column for the Chicago News Cooperative.

In the clubby atmosphere of the judiciary, we'd best take note if a federal
judge derides another's ''warped logic'' and ''awful prose'' and characterizes
as capricious how the entire system handles the daily drama of immigrants'
seeking to stay in this country.

The decision last month by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit in Stanojkova v. Holder is a reminder of the potency and poignancy of
individual cases that get lost in the hyperbolic fray of made-for-talk-radio
debates on immigration.

The decision by the Chicago court revives sporadically publicized tensions
between federal appeals courts and both our lower-prestige, hard-pressed
immigration judges and the Board of Immigration Appeals in Falls Church, Va. And
it asks us to mull a notion broader than some people may possess of just what
constitutes ''persecution.''

The overall, intramural squabble is partly explained by a sharp increase in
immigration caseloads and other matters winding up before appeals courts. Those
judges, one rank below the Supreme Court, often find immigration judges
callously inconsistent in denying asylum requests and backing Justice Department
moves to deport individuals.

The Stanojkova case presents us with 10 minutes of seeming hell joined nearly a
decade later by a three-judge appeals court panel notable for its ideological
diversity and unanimity that something smells.

The case involves Ivanka Stanojkova and her husband, Gjorgji Naumov, Macedonian
Slavs caught in ethnic tensions after the breakup of Yugoslavia. In 2001, Mr.
Naumov was drafted into the Macedonian army, but he didn't report because of
what he deemed suppression of Albanians' demands for greater rights.

On July 2, 2002, according to the appeals panel, members of a pro-government
paramilitary police unit called the Lions showed up at the couple's home at
midnight, masked and dressed in black. They knocked out Mr. Naumov's parents
with a chemical spray, sexually abused the pregnant Ms. Stanojkova and beat Mr.
Naumov with a gun. They called the couple ''betrayers of Macedonia'' and took
the family's money and jewelry.

The couple fled and ultimately arrived in the United States without a visa. But
Carlos Cuevas, a Chicago immigration judge with a far-from-bad reputation,
ordered them back to Macedonia, and the appeals board -- actually just one
person -- affirmed his decision.

That bewildered the judges on the Seventh Circuit panel: Richard A. Posner, a
high-powered and provocative conservative who is the most influential federal
judge outside the Supreme Court; Ilana Diamond Rovner, a moderate Republican who
escaped Nazi persecution in Latvia and came to this country as a child; and
Diane P. Wood, a liberal who was on President Obama's short list to fill the
most recent Supreme Court vacancy.

The prolific Judge Posner wrote the panel's opinion, which eviscerates the
immigration judges' conclusion that the couple cannot be deemed ''persecuted.''
The panel finds the lower court's logic wrongheaded and derides its assessment
of Macedonian history and the role of the Lions, saying the judge ''resorted to
the kind of warped logic that mars so many opinions of immigration judges and
members of the Board of Immigration Appeals.''

Judge Posner even belittles the trial judge's writing, like a puzzled college
professor might treat many of our barely literate Chicago public high school
students. ''As near as we can tell from this awful prose,'' the judge starts one
line, then says he's clueless about what Judge Cuevas meant in describing the
original incident.

The key passages involve whether it would be safe for the couple to return, even
conceding that Macedonia is now a less fractious environment. Judge Posner
chides the immigration board's lack of useful definitions to distinguish between
harassment and the sort of persecution that guarantees a grant of asylum.

''The line between harassment and persecution,'' he wrote, ''is the line between
the nasty and the barbaric, or alternatively between wishing you were living in
another country and being so desperate that you flee without any assurance of
being given refuge in any other country.''

''The line was crossed here,'' he added.

The couple's case was sent back to the immigration board, with Judge Posner
asking, ''Why would anyone hang around in Macedonia after that if there was any
way out?''

Maybe the board should get a copy of the Tom Stoppard play ''Night and Day,'' in
which a veteran photographer tells a young reporter, ''People do awful things to
one another,'' especially in dark places.

Just ask Ms. Stanojkova and her husband.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Judge Richard A. Posner (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE KAGAN FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 16, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Program Sows Mistrust, U.S. Is Told

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 867 words


A task force advising an Obama administration deportation program has sharply
criticized immigration officials for creating confusion about its purposes and
has found that the program had an ''unintended negative impact'' on public
safety in local communities.

In a report on the program, known as Secure Communities, the task force said
that the program had eroded public trust by leading to the detention of many
immigrants who had not committed serious crimes, after officials said its aim
was to remove ''the worst of the worst'' immigrant criminals from the United
States. The task force report was completed Wednesday.

The report also said that immigration officials had created tensions with local
authorities by making inconsistent statements on whether states and cities were
required to participate.

In the most significant of its recommendations, the task force said that
fingerprint identifications through the program should no longer lead federal
agents to deport immigrants arrested by local police officers for minor traffic
violations.

The task force, which included law enforcement chiefs from four major cities as
well as immigrant advocates and state homeland security officials, urged
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that operates the program, to
start over to ''reintroduce'' it in many places where local opposition had
swelled.

The report added to the controversy surrounding the Secure Communities program,
a centerpiece of the Obama administration's efforts to curb illegal immigration
by deporting as many as 400,000 foreigners a year.

John Morton, the director of the immigration agency, named the task force in
June to channel and address resistance from state officials, local police chiefs
and immigrant organizations. But in the final hours of work on the report, new
dissension arose in the task force. Five of its 19 members, including all three
who represented labor unions, resigned on Wednesday rather than endorse the
final report.

The report shows that divisions persisted among the remaining members of the
diverse group. Some thought the program was too deeply flawed to continue.
Others, especially the police officials, argued that information-sharing among
law enforcement agencies under the program was too vital to halt.

Under Secure Communities, fingerprints collected from anyone arrested by local
or state police are checked against F.B.I. criminal databases -- a routine
police procedure -- and also through Department of Homeland Security databases,
which record immigration violations. After initiating the program in 2008,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement has extended it across about half of the
country, recently to growing outcry.

Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, who
was the task force chairman, said there was a ''strong consensus'' in the group
that Secure Communities should focus on deporting serious and violent felons.

But many local police officials told the task force that the program had eroded
trust between them and immigrant communities by leaving the impression that they
were engaged in enforcing federal immigration laws. Some communities had become
reluctant to report crimes.

''You can't mix in low-level offenders and not lose credibility in the
communities,'' Mr. Wexler said.

In four public hearings, the task force learned of many cases of illegal
immigrants stopped by the police for minor traffic offenses -- or, in some
cases, for no offense at all -- who were swept into deportation after being
flagged by a Secure Communities check.

''To the extent that Secure Communities may damage community policing,'' the
task force report found, ''the result can be greater levels of crime.''

The task force said immigration officials had made confusing statements about
the legal authorities underpinning the program. After initially suggesting that
state officials could delay their participation, administration officials now
say they are required to extend the program nationwide by 2013.

The task force said the immigration agency should make broader and far more
systematic use of prosecutorial discretion to concentrate its resources on
deporting convicted criminals.

In a letter submitted Wednesday, representatives of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and two
unions of immigration officers said they were resigning from the task force
because the final report ''demonstrates a clear absence of our voice.'' They did
not detail their disagreements.

Arturo Venegas, the former police chief of Sacramento, and director of the Law
Enforcement Engagement Initiative, a police organization, said in a resignation
letter that the recommendations did not go far enough to ensure that immigrants
detained for minor offenses would not be deported. A representative of the
National Immigration Forum, an advocacy group, also resigned.

Roberto Villasenor, the police chief of Tucson, Ariz., and a task force member
who did endorse the report, said the police had to continue sharing fingerprints
with the immigration authorities. ''I don't think that as law enforcement we
should turn away from that,'' he said.

Mr. Morton said he would meet with the task force members who resigned to hear
their concerns.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 19, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Friends of U.S., Terrorists in Eyes of Law

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 987 words


Nassir Al-Rifahe never thought his love for America would be questioned.

As a member of the Iraqi National Congress, he worked for years to topple Saddam
Hussein before being granted political asylum in the United States in 1997.

But for the last decade, while Mr. Rifahe, 57, lived quietly with his family in
Texas and Minnesota, the Department of Homeland Security has refused to grant
his application for a green card, instead letting the case languish unresolved.

Under a sweeping section of federal immigration law, the government considers
Mr. Rifahe to have engaged in terrorist-related activity, making him ineligible
to live here permanently. That the group Mr. Rifahe worked for was once
supported by the United States and tried to overthrow Saddam Hussein matters
little.

''It is not fair; I want to stay here,'' Mr. Rifahe said. ''How come they helped
me before, but now they say I am a terrorist? I can't believe this. Never would
I do this.''

An estimated 4,000 cases similar to Mr. Rifahe's are on hold around the country.
Some have dragged on for years as immigration officials wrestle with how to
handle people previously granted political asylum or refugee status in this
country, but whose past affiliations technically bar them from permanent
residency.

Many of the cases involve people who belonged to groups in their homelands once
backed by Washington, immigration lawyers and human rights advocates say. Often,
it is their connection to those groups that allowed the immigrants to come here
in the first place.

The situation has created a conundrum for United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, which acknowledges that the individuals pose no threat to
national security. But the agency says existing law would force their green card
applications to be denied and has instead placed the cases on hold until special
exemptions can be created.

''The law is being applied as a blunt instrument to label people terrorists who
didn't engage in any terrorist activity and who were actually victims,'' said
Anwen Hughes, senior counsel for Human Rights First, a New York-based group that
is pushing to change the portion of immigration law in question. ''The
information about their pasts is information they volunteered, and in some
cases, it is the information upon which the U.S. granted them refugee protection
initially.''

At issue is a section of the Immigration and Nationality Act, which was
bolstered after the Sept. 11 attacks by the Patriot Act and other legislation to
prevent terrorists from entering the United States.

As currently worded, the act defines a terrorist group as any organization with
two or more people that has engaged in a range of violent activities against
persons or property. This would include groups that take up arms against a
government.

Simply belonging to such an organization, which does not have to be officially
designated by the United States as terrorist, or providing ''material support''
are grounds for being barred from this country.

The law makes no distinction for groups or governments that Washington views
favorably.

As a result, an assortment of refugees and asylum-seekers are deemed terrorists
or to have aided terrorist groups. For example, immigrants once affiliated with
organizations that battled the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan or took up arms
against the Sudanese government, both efforts the United States was sympathetic
to at one point, have been unable to receive green cards, Ms. Hughes said.

Many of the cases do not even involve violence by the green card applicants, but
rather lending assistance to political or military factions, she added.

Without a green card, immigrants cannot become citizens, must apply to travel
outside the country in some cases and can have a more difficult time with
employment.

''My kids keep asking me why I am not a citizen like they are,'' said Shefqet
Krasniqi, a project manager for a New York City construction company. ''I am
living ashamed. It doesn't make sense to think I would harm a country I owe so
many things to.'' He left a war-ravaged Kosovo in 1999 and was granted political
asylum in the United States.

Mr. Krasniqi said he was informed that his green card application has been on
hold because of his association with the Kosovo Liberation Army, which he joined
after Serbian forces attacked villages near his home.

The Homeland Security, Justice and State Departments are working to create
special waivers so the green card applications can be transferred to immigration
courts, where most requests for permanent residency are likely to be granted.

According to the citizenship and immigration agency, 3,500 cases were cleared
for consideration last year, and the agency has vowed that the rest will be
cleared by the end of this year.

''Based on available information and following a case-by-case review, U.S.C.I.S.
has determined that all remaining cases currently being held on
terrorism-related inadmissibility grounds do not, in fact, pose any threat to
the United States,'' Christopher Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and
Immigration Services, said in a statement.

Francisco Saborit, who served time in a Cuban prison for breaking a sugar cane
cutting machine in protest of Fidel Castro's communist government, has been
waiting more than five years to receive his green card.

Mr. Saborit left Cuba in 2005 after being persecuted for his involvement with
pro-democracy groups, he said. He was granted refugee status and has been living
in Miami.

But a 2008 letter from the government initially denied Mr. Saborit's request,
citing subversion against the Castro regime. His case has been reopened, but
there has been no action.

Mr. Saborit said he is too ashamed to tell his friends why he still does not
have a green card after all these years.

''I am paralyzed in this country,'' Mr. Saborit said through an interpreter. ''I
feel like I'm a prisoner. I am really tired of everything.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Will Hear Appeals On Immigrants' Residence

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 724 words


WASHINGTON -- The Supreme Court on Tuesday agreed to decide whether the length
of immigrants' lawful residence in the United States should be considered in
determining whether their children may be deported.

The court also agreed to hear six other cases from among the hundreds of appeals
that had piled up over the summer. The new cases mostly concern technical
questions in low-profile areas of the law like tax shelters and workers'
compensation.

The number of cases accepted by the justices from their ''long conference''
after their summer break was unusually small. Last year, they added 14 cases to
the docket at this time.

The immigration case is probably the most consequential of the new additions to
the docket.

Federal immigration law allows people who have been lawful permanent residents
for at least five years and have lived continuously in the United States for at
least seven years to ask the government for leniency if they are threatened with
deportation. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San
Francisco, has ruled in a series of cases that immigrants who entered the United
States as children may count their parents' years here to satisfy the residency
requirements.

The court accepted two appeals from such rulings, consolidating them into a
single case.

One of the appeals, Holder v. Gutierrez, No. 10-1542, concerns Carlos M.
Gutierrez, a Mexican citizen who became a legal permanent resident of the United
States in 2003, when he was 19. Two years later, the government sought to deport
him after catching him trying to drive across the border from Mexico with three
undocumented minors in his car.

The other appeal, Holder v. Sawyers, No. 10-1543, involved Damien A. Sawyers, a
Jamaican citizen whom the government sought to deport after he was convicted of
''maintaining a dwelling for keeping a controlled substance.'' The conviction
came 6 years and 10 months after Mr. Sawyers became a lawful permanent resident
of the United States in 1995 at the age of 15.

Neither man could himself satisfy the criteria that would have allowed him to
seek leniency. The Ninth Circuit ruled that the time their parents had spent in
the United States could be imputed to them.

In its briefs urging the justices to hear the case, the Obama administration
said the Ninth Circuit's interpretation of the law was wrong and at odds with
those of other appeals courts. The Ninth Circuit's approach, Solicitor General
Donald B. Verrilli Jr. wrote in one of the briefs, ''impedes the government's
high-priority efforts to remove criminal aliens.''

Lawyers for the two men, in briefs urging the justices not to hear their cases,
said the government had ignored a Congressional policy favoring keeping families
intact. They also noted that the attorney general remained free to deny leniency
however the math was computed.

The Supreme Court also agreed to decide whether private lawyers hired by
municipalities to conduct investigations are entitled to protections against
lawsuits generally available to government lawyers. The case, Filarsky v. Delia,
No. 10-1018, arose from an investigation of Nicholas B. Delia, a firefighter in
Rialto, Calif., who had been suspected of improperly taking sick days. The city
filmed Mr. Delia buying rolls of fiberglass insulation at a home improvement
store while he was on medical leave, questioned him about the purchases and then
required him to retrieve the insulation from his home.

A unanimous three-judge panel of the Ninth Circuit determined that various city
officials and the private lawyer, Steve A. Filarsky, had violated Mr. Delia's
rights under the Fourth Amendment, which prohibits unreasonable searches.

Judge Mark W. Bennett, writing for the panel, nonetheless dismissed Mr. Delia's
lawsuit against city officials, saying they were entitled to the qualified
immunity available to government officials when the legal principle barring
their conduct had yet not been clearly established. Mr. Filarsky, Judge Bennett
wrote, was not entitled to that same immunity because he was a private lawyer.

In a brief supporting Mr. Filarsky, the League of California Cities argued that
denying qualified immunity to lawyers like him ''is not just legally wrong but
will harm cities and other government units by making utilization of private
attorneys less effective and more expensive.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 8, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: U.S. Appeals Immigration Ruling

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 95 words


The Justice Department on Friday asked the United States Court of Appeals for
the 11th Circuit to stop Alabama officials from enforcing a strict immigration
law, warning that it opens the door to discrimination against even legal
residents. A coalition of advocacy groups also filed an appeal, claiming that
the law has thrown Alabama into chaos. The law, which allows the authorities to
detain people suspected of being in the country illegally and lets officials
check the immigration status of public school students, took effect last week
after a federal judge upheld it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Part of Alabama Immigrant Law Blocked

BYLINE: By CAMPBELL ROBERTSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 462 words


BIRMINGHAM, Ala. -- A federal appeals court in Atlanta temporarily blocked two
provisions of Alabama's far-reaching immigration enforcement law on Friday, but
left much of it in effect as the state and the United States Justice Department
continued to fight over the law in the courts.

The United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit issued a preliminary
injunction against a section of the law that requires schools to determine the
immigration status of children who are enrolling, as well as the status of their
parents. It also blocked a section making it a state crime for illegal
immigrants not to carry registration documents.

The law, considered the toughest state immigration law in the nation, was signed
by Gov. Robert Bentley in June, but it was challenged shortly thereafter in
lawsuits by the Justice Department, a coalition of civil rights groups and
others.

On Sept 28, a federal district judge in Alabama issued an injunction against
several provisions but allowed most of the law to take effect while the
challenges made their way through the courts.

The 11th Circuit court has expedited the appeals process and is scheduled to
hear arguments within the next two months. The Justice Department asked for a
stay of certain provisions pending the outcome of the appeal.

Among the sections of the law that the court let stand is one requiring the
police to determine the immigration status of someone who has been arrested or
pulled over in a traffic stop if ''reasonable suspicion'' exists that the person
is in the country illegally. The court also declined to block a provision
rendering most contracts with illegal immigrants unenforceable and a section
making it a felony for an illegal immigrant to conduct a ''business
transaction,'' like renewing a driver's license, with any governmental body in
the state.

The provision pertaining to schools applies only to children who are enrolling
for the first time, not to anyone already enrolled in school, so the number of
students actually affected by the new procedure would have been minimal.
Nevertheless, in the two weeks that the provision was in effect, attendance
figures varied widely, with absences among Hispanic students going as high as
5,300 and, on Thursday, back to around 1,200, which is near normal. School
superintendents appeared on television and at meetings urging parents to keep
their children in school and telling them that the provision would not apply to
them or their children.

Shortly after Friday's ruling was announced, the interim state superintendent,
Larry E. Craven, issued a statement directing schools to stop trying to
ascertain the country of birth during enrollment.

''Schools will revert to enrollment procedures in effect prior to September
29,'' the statement read.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An immigration law affected attendance at schools like Valley
Elementary School in Pelham, Ala. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH ADDICKS FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Latinos Said to Bear Weight of a Deportation Program

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1009 words


A deportation program that is central to the Obama administration's immigration
enforcement strategy has led disproportionately to the removal of Latino
immigrants and to arrests by immigration authorities of hundreds of United
States citizens, according to a report by two law schools using new, in-depth
official data on deportation cases.

The report also found that about a third of around 226,000 immigrants who have
been deported under the program, known as Secure Communities, had spouses or
children who were United States citizens, suggesting a broad impact from those
removals on Americans in Latino communities.

The report, to be released Wednesday, is the first analysis of deportations
under the Secure Communities program based on data about individual cases, which
was obtained through the Freedom of Information Act by the University of
California, Berkeley, law school and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in
New York.

The Secure Communities program has drawn intense criticism from immigrant
communities and from some state and local officials, who have said it led to
deportations of many immigrants who were not dangerous offenders and eroded
trust between the communities and local police.

Obama administration officials have just as vigorously defended the program. On
Tuesday, immigration officials said that the latest deportation figures show
that Secure Communities and the Obama administration's larger strategy are
working, announcing that they had deported a total of 396,906 foreigners over
the last year, a record number in the last decade.

The officials said that 55 percent of the immigrants deported were criminal
convicts, including 51,620 people convicted of felonies like homicide, drug
trafficking and sexual offenses. The results were an 89 percent increase in
deportations of criminals since the beginning of the Obama administration, the
officials said. Of the remaining illegal immigrants deported, the great majority
were arrested soon after they crossed the border illegally or had returned
illegally after being deported, officials said.

''We came into office focused on creating a smart enforcement system by setting
a rational system of priorities, and we have done that,'' John Morton, the
director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said on Tuesday. ''We said
criminal offenders would be our highest priority, and lo and behold, they are
the highest priority.''

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints of anyone booked after arrest by
local police are checked against F.B.I. criminal databases and also against
Department of Homeland Security databases, which record immigration violations.
Initiated in 2008, the program has been expanded by the Obama administration to
more than 1,500 jurisdictions, and officials have said they will extend it
nationwide by 2013.

In a random sample provided by Immigration and Customs Enforcement of 375
deportation cases under the program that was analyzed by the law schools,
researchers found five cases of United States citizens held by immigration
agents, with no clear reason specified in the records. Although the number of
citizens is small, their presence in the sample raised concerns because
immigration authorities do not have legal powers to prosecute or deport
Americans.

''If Secure Communities was working properly,'' the report said, a match under
the program ''should never result in the apprehension'' of a citizen. Based on
the sample, the researchers estimated that at least 680 United States citizens
had been held under the program. No Americans were ever placed in immigration
detention, the report found.

Administration officials strongly rejected the report's findings, saying they
were not an accurate description of the program. ''Any suggestion that we are
knowingly arresting or detaining U.S. citizens would be false and a
misrepresentation,'' Mr. Morton said.

The officials said that some American citizens arrested by local police could be
flagged in a Secure Communities match because the department's fingerprint
databases include immigration violations and also positive histories of
immigrants who applied for legal status or naturalized to become American
citizens. Immigration agents might hold a foreign-born person already arrested
by local police while they were verifying the immigrant's legal status or
American citizenship, they said.

''Wherever we determine that someone is a citizen we don't detain and remove
that person, because we don't have that power,'' Mr. Morton said. But he added,
''It would be irresponsible for us not to investigate someone who is suspected
of a crime and has some record of being foreign born.''

The researchers said the presence of citizens among deportation cases indicated
that the program did not have adequate procedures to avoid the arrest of
Americans and others who could or should not be deported.

''The Secure Communities protocol too often is arrest first and investigate
later, and that is not what the Constitution dictates,'' said Peter L.
Markowitz, a professor of immigration law at the Cardozo law school and an
author of the report. The other authors were Aarti Kohli and Lisa Chavez of the
Chief Justice Earl Warren Institute at the Berkeley law school.

''If this is the quality of due process with regard to U.S. citizens,'' Mr.
Markowitz said, ''we should all be terrified with regard to immigrants who are
targets of immigration enforcement.''

The report found that 93 percent of immigrants arrested under Secure Communities
were Latinos, although Latino immigrants are about three-quarters of the illegal
immigrants in the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 21, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Wednesday about the disproportionate number of Latinos arrested
under an Obama administration deportation program misstated the number of
Latinos among the population of illegal immigrants in the United States. People
from Latin America make up about three-quarters of illegal immigrants, not
two-thirds.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Illegal immigrants awaiting deportation in Mesa, Ariz., in
December. Officials said they deported 396,906 people in the past year. (A16)
 About a third of the deportees had spouses or children who were American
citizens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

It's What They Asked For

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 534 words


Alabama's new anti-immigrant law, the nation's harshest, went into effect last
month (a few provisions have been temporarily blocked in federal court), and it
is already reaping a bitter harvest of dislocation and fear. Hispanic homes are
emptying, businesses are closing, employers are wondering where their workers
have gone. Parents who have not yet figured out where to go are lying low and
keeping children home from school.

To the law's architects and supporters, this is excellent news. ''You're
encouraging people to comply with the law on their own,'' said Kris Kobach, the
Kansas secretary of state, who has a side career of drafting extremist
immigration legislation for states and cities, notoriously in Arizona and now in
Alabama.

Alabama's law is the biggest test yet for ''attrition through enforcement,'' a
strategy espoused by Mr. Kobach and others to drive away large numbers of
illegal immigrants without the hassle and expense of a police-state roundup. All
you have to do, they say, is make life hard enough and immigrants will leave on
their own. In such a scheme, panic and fear are a plus; suffering is the point.

The pain isn't felt just by the undocumented. Legal immigrants and native-born
Alabamans who happen to be or look Hispanic are now far more vulnerable to
officially sanctioned harassment. Many of those children being kept home from
school by frightened parents are born and bred Americans.

The problems do not stop there. Farmers are already worrying that with the
exodus, crops will go unpicked. Like much of the rest of the country, Alabama
needs immigrant labor, because too many native-born citizens lack the skill, the
stamina and the willingness to work in the fields -- even in a time of steep
unemployment.

The new law has also added frustrating layers of paperwork for Alabamans who
must now prove legal status when enrolling schoolchildren, signing leases and
interacting with government. After the law went into effect, the lines at the
Department of Motor Vehicles in Birmingham grew so long that officials had to
bring in portable toilets.

Alabama's reputation has also taken a huge hit just when it is trying to lure
international businesses. No matter how officials may try to tempt foreign
automakers, say, with low taxes and wages, the state is already infamous as a
regional capital of xenophobia.

If Alabama succeeds in driving out all of its estimated 120,000 unauthorized
immigrants, restrictionists will surely cheer. They will have only 49 states and
11 million more people to go.

There is another more humane and realistic path in which immigrants could earn
the right to stay -- if Congress would accept its responsibility and move ahead
with serious immigration reform. America's history shows that assimilation works
better than deportation -- for everyone. If first-generation immigrants don't
all learn English, their children and grandchildren invariably do. They may be
poor, but their children grow up to be productive citizen taxpayers. Unless, of
course, you frighten and oppress them, and forbid them to work, live and go to
school.

Other states that are tempted to follow should look at what is happening in
Alabama. Nobody is winning there.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 22, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Dismisses Arizona Suit On Immigration Enforcement

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 317 words


PHOENIX (AP) -- A lawsuit by Gov. Jan Brewer that accused the Obama
administration of failing to enforce immigration laws or maintain control of her
state's border with Mexico was dismissed Friday by a federal judge.

In her ruling, Judge Susan Bolton of United States District Court in Phoenix
said the governor's claim that Washington had failed to protect Arizona from an
''invasion'' of illegal immigrants was a political question that was not
appropriate for the court to decide.

Governor Brewer, a Republican, filed her countersuit after the Justice
Department challenged Arizona's immigration enforcement law. She was seeking a
court order that would require the federal government to take extra steps, like
erect more border fencing, to protect Arizona until the border was controlled.

The judge wrote that she also barred some of the governor's claims because the
issues had been dealt with in a 1994 case by Arizona and could not be litigated
again. Court precedent also requires the dismissal of some claims, Judge Bolton
wrote.

In a statement, Governor Brewer said she was not surprised by the ruling. ''It
is but the latest chapter in a story that Arizonans know all too well: The
federal government ignores its constitutional and statutory duty to secure the
border,'' she said.

The Department of Justice issued a one-sentence statement saying it was pleased
by Judge Bolton's decision.

The department sued the State of Arizona last year in a bid to invalidate
Arizona's immigration enforcement law. Judge Bolton, who ruled in that case as
well, put key parts of the law on hold, like a provision requiring police
officers, while enforcing other laws, to question a person's immigration status
if officers had a ''reasonable suspicion'' that the person was in the country
illegally.

Governor Brewer has asked the United States Supreme Court to hear her appeal of
Judge Bolton's ruling in that case.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 28, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 623 words


International

REPUBLICANS PUSH TO RETAIN

MILITARY TRIALS FOR DETAINEES

Congressional Republicans increasingly reject any use of the civilian criminal
justice system for handling cases involving Al Qaeda, hardening their stance in
a dispute with the Obama administration over whether such suspects should be
held and prosecuted exclusively by the military. Page A4

EVICTIONS WOES IN CHINA

Harassment campaigns and forced evictions are predictable realities of modern
redevelopment in China. But the struggle at Huaxiang World Famous Garden is
different. It is a relatively new development and its residents are largely
middle-class and privileged. Page A4

PROTEST AT BRAZILIAN DAM

Waving bows and arrows and dressed in war paint, hundreds of members of
indigenous communities in the Brazilian Amazon invaded the construction site of
the Belo Monte hydroelectric dam, vowing to permanently occupy the site in their
latest attempt to stop the dam from being built. Page A6

THOUSANDS FLEE BANGKOK

With government officials saying there was nothing more they could do to protect
Bangkok from devastating flooding, tens of thousands of people were fleeing the
capital, jamming train and bus stations and clogging the southern highways out
of town. Page A6

National

A NEW IMMIGRATION LAW

IN PART TARGETS EDUCATION

The champions of Alabama's far-reaching immigration law have said that it is
intended to drive illegal immigrants from the state by making every aspect of
their life difficult. But they have taken a very different tone when it comes to
the part of the law concerning schools. Page A14

DRIFTING ALONG THE PLAINS

The mascot of the middle of nowhere, tumbleweeds are on the move once again. But
the drought in southwest Kansas may mean fewer tumbleweeds than in years past.
Page A14

New York

AN INVOLVED LEADERSHIP

HELPS QUEENS SCHOOL THRIVE

Francis Lewis High School in Queens is the fourth-largest school in the city.
The school's principal walks the halls, speaking directly with students. The
school got an A on its most recent progress report from the city. Page A24

Obituaries

JAMES HILLMAN, 85

He was a charismatic therapist and best-selling author whose theories about the
psyche helped revive interest in the ideas of Carl Jung, animating the so-called
men's movement in the 1990s and stirring the pop-cultural air. Page B18

Business

WALT DISNEY COMPANY

IS BRANCHING INTO RUSSIA

The Walt Disney Company said it had completed a deal to introduce a nationally
broadcast version of the Disney Channel in Russia, one of the world's last big
untapped entertainment markets. Page B1

EXPANDING INTERNET SERVICE

In an effort to expand broadband Internet service, the Federal Communications
Commission approved an overhaul of its fund that subsidizes rural telephone
service, turning it into one meant to offer broadband service to the millions of
Americans who lack high-speed connections. Page B4

IMPROVED OIL EARNINGS

Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell reported robust profits for the third quarter
based on higher oil prices and better refining margins and earnings across the
oil patch have been strong all week. Page B8

Sports

FOUNDATION MAKES A PLEA

TO ADOPT RETIRED HORSES

Under pressure from the New York Attorney General's Charities Bureau, the
Thoroughbred Retirement Foundation conceded it was short of money and asked
horse lovers to adopt one of its herd of former racehorses. Page B13

Arts

GAMES AND HORROR CINEMA

COLLIDE IN THREE SHORT FILMS

Horror has not been nearly as lucrative for the video game industry as for
Hollywood, writes Seth Schiesel. Sometimes these two worlds collide. The G4
network recently televised short original horror films based on three innocuous
video games, Angry Birds, Duck Hunt and Mario Kart. Page C1

OP-ED

Paul Krugman PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 1, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

South Carolina: U.S. Challenges Immigration Law

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 117 words


The federal government filed suit against South Carolina on Monday to block a
recently passed state law that would require the police to check the immigration
status of every person they detain. The Justice Department argued in the suit
that South Carolina's law, which takes effect on Jan. 1, undermines federal
authority on immigration. The department has filed similar challenges to
immigration laws in Alabama and Arizona. ''Pushing undocumented immigrants out
of one state and into another is not a solution to our immigration challenges,''
Tony West, assistant attorney general, said in a news conference. A spokesman
for Gov. Nikki Haley said the state would continue with plans to implement the
law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 16, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: 13 Arrested At Immigration Protest

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 91 words


The Montgomery police arrested 13 people protesting Alabama's strict new
immigration law. About 100 people, most of them Hispanic and college-age, took
part in the protest Tuesday at the Statehouse and nearby Capitol. Some sat on a
street when the police warned that they would be arrested if they did not move.
None of the protesters moved. A Montgomery lawyer who volunteered to represent
those arrested, Mike Winter, said he understood they were mostly being charged
with disturbing the peace, but also could be held for immigration officials.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Incremental Change

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 414 words


In the summer, the Obama administration promised it would review its deportation
policies, and, this week, it promised that it really means it. Maybe one day
immigration officials will even tell the public the results. In the meantime,
the review is a good idea, but its serious pitfalls are reminders of the rising
costs of our national failure to fix a broken immigration system.

The goal, as The Times reported this week, is to speed the departure of people
who have committed felonies and misdemeanors, repeat offenders of immigration
laws and national security risks and to stop the deportation of illegal
immigrants with no convictions who are young students, military service members,
close family of American citizens, the elderly and others. (The ''criminal''
category is far too vague and clearly includes minor misdemeanors.)

Stage 1 is a review of all new cases in immigration courts to weed out those of
low priority from backlogs growing ever bigger. Stage 2, scheduled to begin in
December, will be trials in Baltimore and Denver of reviewing current cases and
deciding who should stay or go.

The policy is unclear and potentially unfair in ways that are typical of the
immigration system. The process of enforcement lacks transparency. The concrete
factors for identifying potential beneficiaries have not been spelled out. Even
the beneficiaries will remain in legal limbo, with their cases closed but not
dismissed.

There seems to be no appeals process for people who believe they should be
allowed to stay if they are picked to be deported. Even for convicted criminals,
the standards are opaque. Someone with a minor conviction presenting no risk
seems subject to deportation -- sometimes even a person against whom charges
were dropped.

The immigration courts are still likely to be overwhelmed by deportation cases.
The pipeline is fed by programs like Secure Communities, the discredited dragnet
that makes every cop a potential immigration agent, empowered to enforce federal
immigration laws.

The courts themselves remain an enormous problem. As the American Bar
Association reported last year, they have too few judges and too many who are
mean and arbitrary. They provide too little due process and scant explanation of
their decisions in cases where more than half of threatened deportees represent
themselves. Until far-reaching reform increases justice throughout the system,
being caught in it will remain for most people an unpredictable, terrifying
experience.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 22, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama's Shame (Cont.)

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 384 words


The self-inflicted wounds from Alabama's most-abusive-in-the-nation immigration
law just keep on coming. Last week, a manager for Mercedes-Benz, visiting from
Germany, was pulled over in his rental car by a police officer in Tuscaloosa
near where a Mercedes plant builds sport-utility vehicles. The manager didn't
have his driver's license with him, and only a few months ago he just would have
been given a ticket. But Alabama's new law, now in effect, demands tougher
action against suspected illegal immigrants. The manager was arrested and taken
to police headquarters.

Germany is Alabama's largest international trading partner, and Mercedes, a unit
of Daimler, recently announced more than $2 billion in new investment there
through 2014. Is this any way to treat a visitor, especially one representing a
company that could just as easily invest in some other low-wage state? Is this
any way to treat anybody at all?

Of course, all sorts of unexpected and nasty things happen when you empower the
police to demand papers of suspected illegal immigrants and nullify contracts
they enter and impose a host of other vile and unnecessary penalties, like
forcing schools to check the immigration status of children and their parents
(one of several provisions blocked for now in federal court).

According to The Associated Press, this not-so-trivial traffic stop came to the
attention of Gov. Robert Bentley, who called his homeland security director,
Spencer Collier, who called the Tuscaloosa police chief, Steven Anderson. ''It
sounds like the officer followed the statute correctly,'' Mr. Collier told The
A.P. Unfortunately, that is the truth.

Somebody in Alabama has to wake up. Even before the Mercedes debacle, some
legislators were having second thoughts. Not the law's sponsor, a Senator Scott
Beason, who was recently dumped by his Republican leadership as chairman of the
rules committee, possibly because he used the word ''aborigines'' in a reference
to black Alabamans. But Senator Slade Blackwell told The Times, ''All of us
realize we need to change it.'' And Governor Bentley has made vague comments
about simplifying the law.

Our advice to Governor Bentley and the Legislature: Forget simplifying. Call a
special session, repeal the law and begin repairing your state's crashing
reputation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Utah: State Sued Over Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING ROCKIES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 90 words


The U.S. Justice Department filed a lawsuit Tuesday challenging Utah's
immigration enforcement law, saying the law pre-empts federal authority. Justice
officials said they did not expect the lawsuit to end continuing negotiations
with state officials about immigration enforcement. The Utah law requires people
to prove their citizenship if they are arrested on serious charges ranging from
certain drug offenses to murder. It also gives the police discretion to check
citizenship if charged with traffic infractions and other lesser offenses.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 2, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

On Immigrant Tuition, Texans See It Perry's Way

BYLINE: By ROSS RAMSEY.

rramsey@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 704 words


Ross Ramsey, the managing editor at The Texas Tribune, writes a column for The
Tribune.

Rick Perry's tuition troubles have a lot to do with the difference between
politics in Texas and politics everywhere else.

His support for in-state tuition for the children of illegal immigrants -- and
the fact that he's sticking with it -- started a political tornado. It was
enough to make Herman Cain say he would vote for Mitt Romney for president but
not for Mr. Perry.

In Texas, there was almost no controversy when the law passed in 2001 with
nearly unanimous support from lawmakers of both parties, and it hasn't been much
of an issue since -- or wasn't, until that twister touched ground. Earlier this
year, an effort to undo it died in the halls of the Capitol.

And there's a way to sell it. John Sharp, the new chancellor of the Texas A&M
University System and an on-again, off-again buddy of the governor's, fielded a
question about it at a Texas Tribune event last week. He made it sound easy,
blaming the federal government for leaving the gate open and then turning the
result into an issue of education and economic development that the state was
forced to address. It looked, in that version, as if the governor had no choice.
The audience -- a Texas audience -- appeared to swallow it whole. Maybe Mr.
Sharp should join Mr. Perry's debate prep team.

''Here's what you've got,'' Mr. Sharp, a Democrat, said in response to a
question from the audience. ''The federal government is allowing folks to come
in -- granted, allowing folks to come in that ought not be allowed to come in.
O.K.?''

He said lawmakers had to react to that, sounding as if he were writing a new
chapter for Mr. Perry's book ''Fed Up!''

''The governor, the Legislature, the 174 members who voted for that piece of
legislation did not get the choice of whether or not those kids were there,''
Mr. Sharp said. ''Their choice is whether or not those kids are going to become
productive citizens or become one hell of a drag on the Texas economy, and
that's it. It seems that common sense dictates that maybe, from a Texas point of
view, we need to make sure they're not that kind of a drag on the Texas
economy.''

He's echoing Steve Murdock, the former director of the United States Census
Bureau, who is now teaching at Rice University in Houston. Mr. Murdock said
illegal immigrants made up 6.7 percent of the state's population and that
leaving them uneducated would devastate the state economy by 2040.

Judging from the number of nodding heads in the audience, Mr. Sharp's line
worked in Austin. It might well have fallen flat on the presidential debate
stage, though it could hardly have gone worse than the reaction Mr. Perry
received.

The tuition-immigrant thing isn't a new issue in Texas and doesn't seem to sound
the same alarms here that it sounds at national political debates. Eddie
Aldrete, an executive with IBC Bank of Laredo, was recently speaking to a
student at the University of Texas whose friend had graduated and was having a
hard time becoming a United States citizen. Mr. Aldrete, with a hat tip to Bill
Gates, suggested we staple visas to diplomas, the better to keep graduates of
Texas universities here, working in this economy, rather than sending them home
to compete with us.

The argument that sells in Texas -- or has sold, up to now -- has to do with the
state's relative comfort with immigrants, legal and illegal. People get riled,
and legislators file bills and all that, but there is also a political
recognition that this is a well-established part of the Texas population and
culture.

Maybe that's an outmoded idea that won't survive the election cycle.
Representative Will Hartnett, Republican of Dallas, announced this week that he
wouldn't seek a 12th term in the Texas House next year. He cited his reasons,
and he listed his accomplishments, including this one: ''In 2001, Hartnett was
the only House member who voted against passage of the now controversial HB1403,
which provides in-state college tuition for undocumented immigrants.''

Maybe it's just a local flavor that doesn't travel too far from the Mexican
border. With the exception of a minority that includes Mr. Hartnett and others,
people here don't seem to mind.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Perry and Hispanics Coexist Uneasily in Politics

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR.

jaguilar@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 1116 words


It was an awkward moment for the swashbuckling, gun-toting governor of Texas.
Fresh off the heels of several raucous welcomes before adoring groups of
conservatives across the country, Gov. Rick Perry found himself staring into a
crowd more intent on dessert than the speech he was delivering, and in his home
state no less.

There were conservatives in the audience at the National Association of Latino
Elected and Appointed Officials in San Antonio last week, but they also appeared
a bit stung by Mr. Perry's recent promotion of tough anti-immigration laws,
policy rhetoric that many Latino political leaders say he must moderate if he
hopes to court their community outside Texas in any bid for the White House.

The governor has not officially announced whether he will run for president.

The same day Mr. Perry was sized up by more than 500 Latino officials from
across the country, the group released updated statistics showing that the
United States has an estimated 12.2 million projected Latino voters, an increase
of about 26 percent from 2008's figures. Texas has about two million of them.

Latino lawmakers say Mr. Perry's push to prevent so-called ''sanctuary cities''
in Texas -- local governments that prohibit law enforcement officers from
inquiring into the immigration status of people they arrest or detain --
resembles measures proposed in several states that are modeled on Arizona's
anti-immigrant law.

Mr. Perry's language, some say, is a noticeable shift from his tone four years
ago when in his inauguration address he said:

''Illegal immigration drains the resources of our schools, our hospitals and our
law enforcement agencies. But I do not believe it is realistic to deport 12
million people already here illegally. We have to understand why millions of
people come here, and why many more have died trying; it is for something as
basic as the freedom to find a job and feed their families.''

Mr. Perry said then that Texas had ''shown Washington what works,'' specifically
state-run operations to increase manpower along the Rio Grande. But he also said
that a guest-worker program was necessary to ''recognize the economic
contributions of foreign workers.''

The failure to enact sanctuary cities legislation was one of the rare defeats
Mr. Perry sustained in the 82nd Texas Legislature. The measure failed to pass
twice, once during the regular session and again during the special session.
Even so, Mr. Perry's unwavering support for it could hurt him among Latino
voters nationally, some national Latino leaders say.

''The support that he's shown for the sanctuary cities bill is really
counterproductive,'' said Arturo Vargas, the executive director of the NALEO
Educational Fund. ''I remember vividly in 1994, when we had a governor in
California, Pete Wilson, who got behind Proposition 187, which I would consider
to be the forerunner to all these other measures. In California we would point
to the governor of Texas who said, 'Not in my state will we ever have
Proposition 187,' and that was George W. Bush. And now things have reversed.''

Although Mr. Perry does not talk about a guest-worker program anymore, some
Texas lawmakers did champion such a program this past session. It failed to win
a vote in committee, however, and was not one of Mr. Perry's priority items.

Asked why the governor's philosophy has changed, Mark Miner, his spokesman, said
Mr. Perry was a leader intent on letting the Legislature do its work.

''The Legislature took the action they felt necessary,'' Mr. Miner said. ''The
governor does not micromanage every single bill that goes before the House and
the Senate.''

In any case, Latinos across the country warn against the assumption that their
most important concerns revolve only around immigration. As with most voters,
Latinos are also paying attention to what Mr. Perry has excelled at: job
creation. To some, that may be enough to look past or even forgive his
anti-immigrant stance.

''I think the most important issue for any presidential candidate is who has the
best plan to improve our economy, who had the best plan to bring real jobs to
the various states across the country,'' said State Senator Anitere Flores, a
Republican from Florida. ''That's the most pressing issue facing Hispanics,
non-Hispanics and everybody else in between.''

Speaking of Mr. Perry's NALEO address, Ms. Flores said the governor ''did well
on his message about the economy but he didn't touch on the other issue.''

In his San Antonio speech, Mr. Perry did not talk, as he usually does, about
border violence, illegal immigration or his disdain for President Obama, a
signal to some that he knew those topics would have resonated poorly.

''I would agree with Governor Perry's views on businesses and job creation
aspects,'' said State Senator John M. Sapien, a Democrat from New Mexico, ''but
I think we run into a divide on immigration issues.

''In New Mexico we have very much moved to that standpoint that it doesn't
matter how you got here. If you're adding to the economy and you are willing to
get a license and be part of the rolls, you are going to add to the community. I
don't see Governor Perry going down that road. In fact I see him going down the
road of Gov. Susana Martinez.''

Ms. Martinez, a New Mexico Republican, joins Mr. Perry in demanding more from
President Obama to ensure a secure border.

Mr. Miner said Mr. Perry's failure to mention Mr. Obama's name last week was not
a mistake. The governor went to San Antonio, he said, to promote Texas'
leadership in job growth under his tenure, especially during a nationwide
recession.

Mr. Perry talked about the same issues at the NALEO event ''that he does
wherever he gives speeches, and the primary focus of this administration has
been on the economy and job creation,'' Mr. Miner said.

But the job creation claim deserves scrutiny, said Sylvia Garcia, NALEO's
president. The numbers -- 730,000 private-sector jobs created in 10 years,
according to the governor's speech -- have not necessarily favored Latinos.

''The real key question is, If all those jobs are being created, where are these
jobs going? What kind of level jobs are they?'' Ms. Garcia said. ''Are they
high-tech that perhaps don't reach our community? Are they construction jobs?
Are they teacher jobs?''

Under Mr. Perry's leadership, Texas boasts a lower unemployment rate than the
national average of about 8 percent. Latinos, however, have a higher
unemployment percentage than the state's average. According to the United States
Department of Labor's 2010 data for the civilian noninstitutional population,
Latino unemployment in Texas is 9.4 percent, compared with 7.4 percent in the
state's non-Hispanic white population.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Hundreds rallied in February in Austin to protest legislation
they considered anti-immigrant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARJORIE KAMYS COTERA FOR THE
TEXAS TRIBUNE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 682 words


9 P.M. (13, 49) LOST IN DETENTION In this ''Frontline'' co-production with the
Investigative Reporting Workshop, Maria Hinojosa investigates President Obama's
immigration enforcement strategies and looks at some of the more than one
million deportations that have taken place since he took office. (Above, a
detainee awaiting processing in Phoenix.) Amid complaints of abuse and harsh
treatment and charges that families have been unfairly separated, the
administration has promised to make the detention system more humane. But
Republican critics are urging stricter measures, resulting in a growing backlash
among Latino voters. ''Women, War & Peace,'' at 10, follows the thousands of
Liberian women, Christian and Muslim, who took on the warlords and regime of the
dictator Charles Taylor amid a brutal civil war and won peace for their country
in 2003.

10:20 A.M. (Cinemax) SHERLOCK HOLMES (2009) Robert Downey Jr. and Jude Law adorn
themselves with varying amounts of facial hair to play Arthur Conan Doyle's
crack sleuth and his sidekick. Mr. Downey portrays Holmes, and Mr. Law, above
right, with Mr. Downey, is Watson, in this Guy Ritchie adaptation set in ''a
smoky, greasy, steam-punk rendering of Victorian London, full of soot and guts
and bad teeth and period clothes,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times.
Rachel McAdams plays a thief ''inserted into the picture in a pretty, flouncy
red dress to add a splash of color and dispel a few hints of homoerotic
subtext,'' he added. Mark Strong is an evil aristocrat, executed for a string of
murders, who appears to have returned from the dead to mobilize an ancient
secret society. ''Best of all is the banter between Mr. Downey and Mr. Law, who
is looser and more mischievous than he's allowed himself to be in quite some
time,'' Mr. Scott wrote.

8 P.M. (CNN) CNN WESTERN REPUBLICAN PRESIDENTIAL DEBATE Anderson Cooper
moderates this broadcast from the Venetian in Las Vegas.

8 P.M. (ESPN) CHARISMATIC Steve Michaels tells the story of Charismatic, the
thoroughbred who headed down the stretch at the Belmont Stakes in 1999, just
seconds away from becoming the first Triple Crown winner in 21 years. But there
would be no Hollywood ending for that underdog, who had won the Kentucky Derby
as the biggest long shot in six decades, or for his jockey, Chris Antley (both
left), a recovering drug addict on his last legs.

8:30 P.M. (ABC) MAN UP! Can you use hazelnut creamer and pomegranate body wash
and still call yourself a man? That's the question behind this new comedy about
three modern male archetypes: the metrosexual (Mather Zickel); the sensitive
soul (Christopher Moynihan, a creator of the series), who pines for his ex; and
the milquetoast (Dan Fogler), who refuses to let his anger ignite and instead
asks, ''What would Tobey Maguire do?'' Teri Polo and Amanda Detmer play the
women in their lives.

9 P.M. (BBC America) 24 HOURS IN THE ER With 350 cases a day, the emergency room
at King's College Hospital is one of London's busiest. In this episode a
65-year-old taxi driver makes his second visit in a week after he crashes his
cab and his head goes through a window. And an 89-year-old woman has been
brought in with a suspected stroke after being found semiconscious and slumped
over her bed.

9 P.M. (A&E) GENE SIMMONS FAMILY JEWELS Mr. Simmons and his longtime love,
Shannon Tweed, finally say their ''I do's.''

9 P.M. (Spike TV) SCREAM AWARDS 2011 For the sixth year Spike TV celebrates the
best in horror, fantasy, science fiction and comics, with awards for, among
other things, the best fantasy actress and most memorable mutilation. The
ceremony, taped at Universal Studios in Los Angeles, will honor Nicolas Cage
with the Maverick Award, accompanied by a clip from the coming ''Ghost Rider:
Spirit of Vengeance''; Robert Downey Jr. with the Hero Award, backed by a
glimpse of ''Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows,'' to be released in December;
and Paul Reubens, channeling his alter ego Pee-wee Herman, with the Visionary
Award. George Lucas delivers the prize for ultimate villain to Darth Vader.
KATHRYN SHATTUCK

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES
 WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 14, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Rise in Alabama

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 562 words


Alabama's ruling class has dug in against the storm it caused with the nation's
most oppressive immigration law. Some of the law's provisions have been blocked
in federal court; others won't take effect until next year. But many Alabamans
aren't waiting for things to get worse or for the uncertain possibility of
judicial relief or legislative retreat. They are moving to protect themselves,
and summoning the tactics of a civil rights struggle now half a century old.

The law was written to deny immigrants without papers the ability to work or
travel, to own or rent a home, to enter contracts of any kind. Fear is causing
an exodus as Latinos abandon homes and jobs and crops in the fields. Utilities
are preparing to shut off water, power and heat to customers who cannot show the
right papers.

Alabama is far from alone in passing a law whose express aim is misery and
panic. States are expanding their power to hasten racial exclusion and family
disintegration, to make a particular ethnic group of poor people disappear. The
new laws come cloaked in talk of law and order; the bigotry beneath them is
never acknowledged.

But if there is any place where bigotry does not go unrecognized, it is Alabama.

''It is a fear of folks who are not like us,'' said Judge U. W. Clemon, a former
state senator and Alabama's first black federal judge, now retired. ''Although
the Hispanic population of the state is less than 5 percent, the leaders of the
state were hell-bent on removing as much of that 4 percent as possible. And I
think they've been fairly successful in scaring them out of the state of
Alabama.''

There are, of course, significant distinctions between the civil rights movement
and the fight for immigrant rights. African-Americans have endured 400 years of
oppression, and toppled laws created to deny their equality and to brutalize
them. Unauthorized immigrants are a group who arrived by choice, mostly. They
are living outside the law, and want in.

Yet to those, like Judge Clemon, a civil rights foot soldier who fought Bull
Connor and George Wallace, the common thread between then and now -- the threat
of racial profiling and the abuse of a cheap, exploited work force -- is
obvious, as is the racism driving the law.

A sponsor of the legislation, State Senator Scott Beason, chairman of the Rules
Committee, was secretly taped by the F.B.I. talking about black residents of
Greene County. ''They're aborigines,'' he said. He is the lawmaker who urged
fellow Republicans to ''empty the clip'' to stop illegal immigrants.

And, just as in the early days of the civil rights struggle, the oppressed and
their advocates are scrambling to respond. Early this month, organizers from
Alabama and around the country convened a training session for immigrant leaders
in rural Albertville, where chicken plants rely heavily on Latino labor. They
went from trailer home to trailer home, signing up volunteers to build immigrant
networks that will help people protect one another while fighting for repeal of
the law and integrating themselves into the life of their state.

This fledgling movement has been embraced by the N.A.A.C.P., whose leaders in
Birmingham met recently with immigrant advocates to stress the need for blacks
and Latinos to unite against the law. ''Jim Crow is dead,'' the Rev. Anthony
Alann Johnson told the group, ''but his cousins are still alive.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (Diner's Journal)

                            October 14, 2011 Friday

San Diego Restaurateur Pleads Guilty in Undocumented Workers Case

BYLINE: PETE WELLS

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 317 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michel Malecot, 59, entered a guilty plea in federal court Thursday
to a misdemeanor charge of continuing to employ undocumented workers.


The owner of a French restaurant in San Diego, whose arrest on charges of
employing undocumented immigrants gained national attention and sent a tremor of
fear through the restaurant industry, pleaded guilty to some of the charges
Thursday.

Michel Malecot, 59, entered a guilty plea in federal court to a misdemeanor
charge of continuing to employ undocumented workers, as reported by The San
Diego Union-Tribune. He could be sentenced to as much as six months in prison.
He had been facing a raft of other charges and the possibility of 30 years in
prison, almost $4 million in fines and the government seizure of his restaurant,
the French Gourmet.

Mr. Malecot's company and one of its managers also pleaded guilty to a felony
charge of hiring at least 10 undocumented workers.The manager, Richard
Kauffmann,  could be sentenced to prison for up to five years.

Himself an immigrant from France, Mr. Malecot opened the French Gourmet in 1979.
On May 15, 2008, the streets around the restaurant were shut down as about a
dozen armed agents stormed into the business. They arrested 12 workers, dug
through papers and carted away hard drives from the office.

The case has been studied anxiously by the restaurant industry, which employs
about 1.4 million foreign-born workers, significant numbers of whom are believed
to be in the United States illegally.

"They're using a body of law intended for drug dealers and money launderers and
going after an iconic bakery and philanthropic business,"  Jot Condie, the
president of the California Restaurant Association, told Sarah Kershaw of The
New York Times last year. "If their strategy is to get the attention of the
industry, mission accomplished."


     ·    What If Restaurants Stopped Hiring Illegal Immigrants?
     ·    How the Stars Fell
     ·    Reviewing Per Se
     ·    Meyer Intends to Sell Eleven Madison Park to Its Chef and Manager
     ·    Brooklyn Fare and Eleven Madison Park Get Three Michelin Stars


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              92 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 259 words


To the Editor:

Re ''So Much for the Nativists'' (editorial, Oct. 27): With 14 million Americans
unemployed and 7 million illegal immigrants working in the United States, jobs
should be protected for legal workers.

A federal E-Verify law could open up millions of jobs for unemployed Americans
by requiring all employers to use this program. E-Verify quickly identifies
individuals working here illegally and opens up jobs for citizens by checking
Social Security numbers of new hires.

Individuals eligible to work here are immediately confirmed 99.5 percent of the
time. With this track record, it's no wonder a recent poll found that 82 percent
of likely voters support requiring all employers to use E-Verify.

Because growers often face a shortage of available American workers to fill
seasonal agricultural jobs, I have also sponsored a bill to provide them a
workable guest worker program. This bill eliminates the problems plaguing the
current program and establishes a more effective system that is responsive to
the needs of American growers while maintaining strong safeguards to protect
legal workers. And it will help growers hire a legal work force without a
fraud-ridden mass amnesty.

It seems that some critics oppose E-Verify and a guest worker program because
they want illegal immigrants to stay in the United States and get amnesty. But
why should we put the interests of illegal workers ahead of those of unemployed
Americans?

LAMAR SMITH Washington, Oct. 27, 2011

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                              July 5, 2011 Tuesday

Reader Q. and A.: Upending Immigration in Mexico

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE

LENGTH: 435 words



HIGHLIGHT: New York Times reporter Damien Cave takes readers' questions about
the changing nature of illegal migration along the U.S.-Mexico border.


Updated Damien Cave's answers to readers' Questions can be found here.


Here is an introduction to the series from the author.

In the American imagination, mass Mexican migration is a given. Terms like
"invading hordes" have been used for decades now to describe a human flow --
mostly illegal since the 80s -- widely seen as inevitable if not perpetually
growing.

But that image, of Mexico and immigration, may need to be updated.

"Americans have this skewed view of Mexico as this place that's demographically
out of control and undeveloped with people who are always desperate to come to
the United States," said Douglas S. Massey, a demographer at Princeton and
co-director of the Mexican Migration Project. "That's just not true at all."

In the first of several articles looking at changing migration patterns from
Latin America, I report on the significant decline in illegal traffic from
Mexico over the past several years - and why no single American policy, nor the
declining economy, can be credited solely with the decrease. Instead, my
reporting shows, the move away from illegal migration reflects tectonic cultural
changes occurring throughout Mexico, but especially in small towns known as
emigration hubs.

An excerpt:

A growing body of evidence suggests that a mix of developments - expanding
economic and educational opportunities, rising border crime, and shrinking
families - are suppressing illegal traffic as much as economic slowdowns or
immigrant crackdowns in the United States.

Here in the red-earth highlands of Jalisco, one of Mexico's top three states for
emigration over the last century, a new dynamic has emerged. For rural families
like the Orozcos, heading to El Norte without papers is no longer an inevitable
rite of passage. Instead, their homes are filling up with returning relatives;
older brothers who once crossed illegally are awaiting visas; and the youngest
Orozcos are staying put.

"I'm not going to go to the States because I'm more concerned with my studies,"
said Angel Orozco, 18. Indeed, at the new technological institute where he is
earning an industrial engineering degree, every student in a recent class said
they were better educated than their parents and that they planned to stay in
Mexico rather than go to the United States.

I will also be posting comments and taking questions on Twitter, via
@damiencave. I look forward to the discussion.


     ·    Addressing Some Misperceptions About Mexican Immigration
     ·    Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
     ·    Money Sent Home by Mexicans Almost Stagnant in 2007
     ·    Tear Gas Over Borders
     ·    Breaking Point in Immigration Debate


LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              94 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE

LENGTH: 1792 words



HIGHLIGHT: Times reporter Damien Cave answers readers' questions on the
economic, demographic and social changes in Mexico that are suppressing illegal
immigration as much as the poor economy or legal crackdowns in the United
States.


2:20 p.m. | Updated  Leer el articulo en espanol aqui:
http://www.nytimes.com/2011/07/07/world/americas/immigration-en-espanol.html.

First off, a big "thank you" to the commenters and questioners and Twitter users
who have added their two cents to my story on how changes in Mexico, good and
bad, have upended illegal immigration. It seems to have surprised some, relieved
others and angered a few, all of which is typical of a complicated story on a
complicated topic like immigration.

Some of the questions that have arisen require more research and time than I
have now - on the impact of Nafta, for example. But the inquiries have inspired
me to look into such issues, and in the meantime, here are a couple of responses
to get the conversation started.

Keep the questions and comments coming.

Q. Trying to reconcile the findings included in the report with the local
Mexican news that claim that urban Mexicans with economic means are legally
migrating to small and medium cities in USA and Canada due to the increasing
criminal activity: extortion to small business and random gun fights on the
streets. The numbers should be significant less than illegal immigration
nonetheless crime is pushing people out of the country, as it happened in
Mexico's civil war of 1910 or "La Revolucion."

Q.Via Twitter, @maraiflo writes: "@damiencave don't you think it has to do more
with the fear of ending up worse, like in a pit in Tamaulipas?"

A.There have been a few questions and comments on this theme - what about the
drug cartels and violence? I will tackle this subject more fully in a future
story, but it is true that the violence along the border in particular is
driving some people away. State Department figures show growth, for example, in
E-class visas, which allow investors who create at least one job outside their
family to move to the United States, and in border-crossing cards issued to
Mexicans (which allow people to stay in the United States, near the border, for
up to 72 hours).

But this is mostly a border-town phenomenon, and the numbers are nowhere near as
large as the waves of people who came illegally during the peak years of illegal
migration, in the '90s and just after 2000. More interesting, I think, is the
effect of the violence on people who live away from Mexican border towns. In
states like Oaxaca and Jalisco, for instance, cartel violence is a big reason
for NOT going to the United States because the trip would mean crossing through
crime-infested areas at the border.  I heard this quite a bit in Jalisco. "It's
so much more dangerous. You never know who might kidnap or kill you."

The stories of relatives in trouble are part of the reason why the narrative has
changed. But parents of young Mexicans, especially mothers, have also really
become more protective. While they used to encourage their children, especially
sons, to go north and work, now many of them are advising against crossing
illegally.  That was the case in the Orozco family. While the sons talked about
the range of issues making it harder to justify making the journey, their mom -
a sweet woman who makes fantastic tortillas - repeatedly emphasized the risk of
violence and crime.

Basically, crime and the cartels are definitely factors, but not necessarily in
the way one might expect.

Q. My thought: With a high poverty rate, 40-50%, you're always going to have
cross border employment crossings. Many anecdotes are cited; any hard
facts--number employed vs. number unemployed in Mexico? - Monsieur Bronx

A. One of the most frustrating things about trying to analyze immigration and
Mexican economics is that there are no good numbers for unemployment. Officially
the Mexican government puts it at around 5 percent, but economists will tell you
that this does not account for the informal economy in Mexico and those who are
underemployed. (So all the guys making a few pesos washing your windows at
stoplights in Mexico City or Tijuana are considered to be as employed as
teachers or lawyers.)

Having spoken to a bunch of economists about this, I've found that the official
figures are useful as trend indicators but not as hard numbers. You can see when
unemployment goes up and down, but you can't link a specific figure to, say
migration patterns.

It is true that people crossing for work are inevitable when wages in the United
States are higher than in Mexico, which is still the case. But it's the
differential that seems to matter more than actual unemployment rates. As this
study from 2005 noted, most Mexican immigrants give up jobs at home to leave for
the United States. The stereotype of jobless Americans heading north seems to be
just that - a stereotype that doesn't get at the underlying nuances of the
situation.

Q.How did you choose Agua Negra, Jalisco to do your story? I am from there, and
the people interviewed are my family. What was your process to choose such a
beautiful part of Mexico for this excellent story?

A.Gustavo -- how nice to hear from another Jalicense, another Orozco from Agua
Negra no less! If you talk to your relatives before I do, tell them I say hello
and thank you for letting me into their lives. As to how I found them, it
started with data. Carlos Galindo, a wonderful Mexican demographer who is an
advisor the Mexican government, helped me dig through the census data to find
places that were experiencing population growth or exhibiting other signs of a
shift in the migration dynamic. We looked at the handful of states that were
historic emigration hubs and found that some of the population increases were
especially pronounced. At the same time, the data showed a substantial increase
in Mexicans returning home.

Then I started looking for a place in Jalisco that embodied the change. I spoke
to economists and experts and Mexico and the United States but I settled on
Arandas and Agua Negra because there was a robust historical record of
emigration there, with Paul S. Taylor's book from the 30s and a more recent book
- "A Nation of Emigrants" by David Fitzgerald, a professor at the University of
California, San Diego. This was a baseline for me that, I figured, would let me
really compare the present moment with the past - it was a way to make sure that
the story did not read as supposition, and it let me lay out the narrative of
the region in a way that would show the drivers of migration over several
generations.  I visited in the spring (with a taxi driver who had been illegal
and who said his kids only wanted to go to the U.S. for vacation) with little
more than a list of names that David Fitzgerald passed on to me. These were
people he spoke to several years ago, people who could tell me if there was in
fact a change going on.  One of those people was Guadalupe Orozco, Antonio's
brother. He happens to a very colorful character who did not end up in the
story, but who helped me realize that his extended family offered a full
portrait of the area's immigration history and current dynamic. His nephew,
Ramon, who works in the government office, knew Agua Negra completely, down to
which families had migrants where, and he led me to his brothers and parents. I
returned and spent time with them a few weeks ago.  It took a long time to find
them - but everyone I met in Agua Negra was gracious and friendly. These kinds
of stories are impossible if not for people like your relatives, people brave
and gracious enough to let a gringo stranger into their living rooms, their
kithchens, their entire lives. I will always be grateful.

Q.Via Twitter, @ThinkMexican writes: "@damiencave What's with all the mentions
of "illegal" in your new article? Check out this page for Journos:
http://ow.ly/5xxoX."

A.Ah, the i-word. I was asked about my use of this recently by another
journalist writing about the campaign to eliminate use of the word "illegals"
and in this case, I think there are two important distinctions that need to be
made. First of all, at no point in my story do I describe immigrants themselves
as "illegals." Use of that word as a general catch-all strikes me as reductive
and unfair. It reduces migrants solely to the issue of whether they are
violating the law by being in the United States, and it is a term rarely applied
to any group other than immigrants from Mexico and Central America.

That said, using illegal as an adjective - as I do in this story - aims not to
insult but rather to differentiate one group of immigrants (legal) from another.
I could have instead used undocumented or unauthorized but in a story so focused
on the distinction and the interaction between legal and illegal, I felt I had
to be as clear as possible. Illegal seemed to be the best way to achieve that.

Q.Hi Damien,Interesting article. What is the source for the Mexican government
statistics claiming to show that more Mexicans are crossing with documents in
recent years? You mentioned that this is survey data. Can you provide more
information on what the survey is measuring? Thanks.

A.These numbers are estimates from CONAPO, the Mexican census analysis agency,
based on survey data from bus stations near the border, and other places where
migrants congregate. The formal name of the survey is the Encuesta Sobre
Migracion en la Frontera and here is a link.  As I note in the story, the data
counts attempted crossings not people and because of how it is conducted - at
bus stations, not airports -- it tends to emphasize lower class Mexicans who are
the lion's share of illegal immigrants. I didn't include the numbers in the
story because my editors and I thought they might be confusing or misinterpreted
without all this context, but the data show that an estimated 855,000 Mexicans
tried to cross or did cross the border in 2007, a peak year, and that 20 percent
of those, or 171,000, told surveyors that they did so with documents. By 2009,
the total number had dropped to 630,000 and 38 percent of those, or 239,400 said
they did so with immigration documents. So there was an increase both as a real
number and as a proportion of the total.  There is a good degree of speculation
among experts about what percentage of these documents are real, and it is true
that selling fake documents is a big business in Mexico and the United States.
But several other data sources confirmed the increased availability of legal
options, and in terms of fraud, there have been major advances in preventing it.
The new border crossing cards, for instance, include biometric data that make it
much harder for people to sell or pass the cards on to someone else.


     ·    Reader Q. and A.: Upending Immigration in Mexico
     ·    X-Ray Scan Reveals 513 Migrants in 2 Trucks
     ·    Tijuana Violence Flares as Chicago's Cools
     ·    Money Sent Home by Mexicans Almost Stagnant in 2007
     ·    Tear Gas Over Borders


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              95 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Hispanic Congressman Is Arrested in Deportation Protest

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 614 words



HIGHLIGHT: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois, said he
decided to participate in the protest after President Obama rejected his
proposals to suspend deportations of some college students and make it easier
for illegal immigrants married to American citizens to remain in the United
States.


Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois who has become a
perennial thorn on immigration for President Obama, was arrested Tuesday
afternoon along with about a dozen activists in a protest outside the White
House.

The protesters were arrested peacefully after they sat down on the White House
sidewalk, following a rally where demonstrators denounced the Obama
administration for deporting more than one million immigrants in the last two
years.

In a letter to Mr. Gutierrez on Monday, Mr. Obama rejected his proposal to
suspend deportations of illegal immigrant college students with clean criminal
records. Last week, Mr. Gutierrez and three other House Democrats had sent a
letter to the president requesting the suspensions and also asking him to take
executive measures to make it easier for illegal immigrants married to American
citizens to remain in the United States.

Mr. Gutierrez said he decided to go ahead with the protest after receiving Mr.
Obama's response. "It didn't disappoint me as much as I was saddened," Mr.
Gutierrez said in an interview after he paid a $100 fine and was released by the
police. He was arrested in May 2010 in a similar protest.

In his letter, Mr. Obama argued that immigration authorities had succeeded in
increasing the numbers of convicted criminals among immigrants who are deported,
while deporting fewer immigrants who lack legal status but have not been
convicted of any crime. In 2010, Mr. Obama wrote, 51 percent of deportees were
convicted criminals, while 49 percent had noncriminal violations. Two-thirds of
the noncriminal deportees had either committed multiple violations of
immigration law (which is generally a civil offense) or had been caught at the
border soon after crossing illegally, Mr. Obama wrote.

On Monday, in a speech at a meeting of the N.C.L.R., or National Council of La
Raza, a Hispanic civil rights organization, the president appealed to Hispanic
leaders, including Mr. Gutierrez, to help him pass a broad overhaul of the
immigration laws by focusing pressure on Republicans.

"I need you to keep building a movement for change outside of Washington, one
that they can't stop," said Mr. Obama, referring to Republican lawmakers. While
his reception at the Latino gathering was generally enthusiastic, when the
president said he could not unilaterally cancel student deportations, groups of
students stood up from the audience and chanted, "Yes you can!"

The partisan conflict over immigration policy was on full display on the Hill on
Tuesday. At a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing convened by Senator Charles
Schumer, a  New York Democrat, top executives from Microsoft and Nasdaq OMX
appealed for more flexible visas for immigrants with technology and science
skills, warning that the United States is losing the global competition for
talented entrepreneurs who can lift the economy.

But at a House Judiciary subcommittee hearing convened by Representative Lamar
Smith, a Texas Republican, the president of an immigration agents' union, Chris
Crane, delivered scathing criticism of the administration, saying officials are
pandering to immigrant groups at the expense of public security. Mr. Crane,
president of the union of employees of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
ICE agents broadly rejected recent measures by agency leaders to allow some
immigrants to avoid deportation.

"Law enforcement and public safety are no longer a priority at ICE," Mr. Crane
said. "Politics are the priority at ICE."

     ·    Reid Promises Immigration Vote After Election
     ·    The Latino Vote, California and Immigration
     ·    A Call to End Hate Speech
     ·    2008: Democrats Face User-Generated Debate
     ·    Romney Courts Hispanic Voters


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              96 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             July 26, 2011 Tuesday

Hispanic Congressman Is Arrested in Deportation Protest

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 612 words



HIGHLIGHT: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois, said he
decided to participate in the protest after President Obama rejected his
proposals to suspend deportations of some college students and make it easier
for illegal immigrants married to American citizens to remain in the United
States.


Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, a Democrat from Illinois who has become a
perennial thorn on immigration for President Obama, was arrested Tuesday
afternoon along with about a dozen activists in a protest outside the White
House.

The protesters were arrested peacefully after they sat down on the White House
sidewalk, following a rally where demonstrators denounced the Obama
administration for deporting more than one million immigrants in the last two
years.

In a letter to Mr. Gutierrez on Monday, Mr. Obama rejected his proposal to
suspend deportations of illegal immigrant college students with clean criminal
records. Last week, Mr. Gutierrez and three other House Democrats had sent a
letter to the president requesting the suspensions and also asking him to take
executive measures to make it easier for illegal immigrants married to American
citizens to remain in the United States.

Mr. Gutierrez said he decided to go ahead with the protest after receiving Mr.
Obama's response. "It didn't disappoint me as much as I was saddened," Mr.
Gutierrez said in an interview after he paid a $100 fine and was released by the
police. He was arrested in May 2010 in a similar protest.

In his letter, Mr. Obama argued that immigration authorities had succeeded in
increasing the numbers of convicted criminals among immigrants who are deported,
while deporting fewer immigrants who lack legal status but have not been
convicted of any crime. In 2010, Mr. Obama wrote, 51 percent of deportees were
convicted criminals, while 49 percent had noncriminal violations. Two-thirds of
the noncriminal deportees had either committed multiple violations of
immigration law (which is generally a civil offense) or had been caught at the
border soon after crossing illegally, Mr. Obama wrote.

On Monday, in a speech at a meeting of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights organization, the president appealed to Hispanic leaders,
including Mr. Gutierrez, to help him pass a broad overhaul of the immigration
laws by focusing pressure on Republicans.

"I need you to keep building a movement for change outside of Washington, one
that they can't stop," said Mr. Obama, referring to Republican lawmakers. While
his reception at the Latino gathering was generally enthusiastic, when the
president said he could not unilaterally cancel student deportations, groups of
students stood up from the audience and chanted, "Yes you can!"

The partisan conflict over immigration policy was on full display on the Hill on
Tuesday. At a Senate Judiciary subcommittee hearing convened by Senator Charles
Schumer, a  New York Democrat, top executives from Microsoft and Nasdaq OMX
appealed for more flexible visas for immigrants with technology and science
skills, warning that the United States is losing the global competition for
talented entrepreneurs who can lift the economy.

But at a House Judiciary subcommittee hearing convened by Representative Lamar
Smith, a Texas Republican, the president of an immigration agents' union, Chris
Crane, delivered scathing criticism of the administration, saying officials are
pandering to immigrant groups at the expense of public security. Mr. Crane,
president of the union of employees of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
ICE agents broadly rejected recent measures by agency leaders to allow some
immigrants to avoid deportation.

"Law enforcement and public safety are no longer a priority at ICE," Mr. Crane
said. "Politics are the priority at ICE."

     ·    Reid Promises Immigration Vote After Election
     ·    The Latino Vote, California and Immigration
     ·    A Call to End Hate Speech
     ·    2008: Democrats Face User-Generated Debate
     ·    Romney Courts Hispanic Voters


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              97 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                             October 3, 2011 Monday

Addressing Some Misperceptions About Mexican Immigration

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE

LENGTH: 964 words



HIGHLIGHT: In readers' comments, passions often obscure the nuances of illegal
immigration.


Reading the comments attached to my article today - looking at how today's
illegal immigrants are more likely to be people who have roots and families in
the United States - I was struck by something that advocates for and against
expanded immigration told me while I was reporting: "This is a fact-free zone."

In other words, the nuances of illegal immigration, no matter how you present
them, are likely be ignored because the only people involved in the debate have
strong emotional connections to their views -- connections unlikely to be broken
by facts that do not already fit their arguments.

Needless to say, it was a depressing thing to hear. However, I figure that there
are still a few misconceptions, popping up among readers, that deserve to be
identified and addressed:

1. Illegal immigrants are all a drag on American society, or they are
overwhelmingly beneficial.

This is the black and white view that dominates. One side (represented by this
commenter and this one) sees only the costs that immigrants bring. Others, like
this commenter, see illegal immigrants largely as victims, hard workers limited
by American xenophobia.

The reality is more complicated. With an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants
in the United States, the pool is large enough to include a little bit of
everything. Yes, some immigrants are criminals, and yes, some are victims of
exploitation.

What the United States, as a country, seems to be trying to figure out is: which
is dominant, the good or the bad?

This is the multibillion-dollar question. Indeed, the debate over whether
illegal immigrants bring more costs than benefits is a major preoccupation for
organizations all around the immigration issue. The problem - experts will
privately tell you, after hours of interviews -  is that many of the numbers
available leave large gaps that make it impossible to clearly determine which
side is right. Because such immigrants live in the shadows because of their
undocumented status, reliable data -- on taxes paid, public benefits used and
overall economic impact -- are hard to find.

Thus, each side pushes its own anecdotes, rarely acknowledging that there are
elements of accurate concern even among those they disagree with. What gets
lost? The role of the immigration system itself - which is to sift, to draw in
and assimilate the most desirable immigrants, while limiting those who are
likely to bring problems.

The more advocates and politicians argue in absolute terms, the less discussion
there is about how to actually build an immigration system that does a better
job of separating the good (however society defines it) from the bad (again, as
determined by the public).

"The dialogue has never progressed beyond the getting-in-at-the-border
conversation," said Demetrios G. Papademetriou, president and co-founder of the
Migration Policy Institute, an independent research group. In a lengthy
interview a few weeks ago, he said he was confounded by the unwillingness to
move on to a conversation about improving and upgrading immigration laws and
visas.

"It's not rocket science," he said. "Reasonable people can sit around the table
and decide who goes first, second, third, and who loses out."

2. People should just wait and go legally

This is a commonly expressed idea, mentioned by this commenter from New York. It
seems to be logical: if everyone else has to be obey American laws, immigrants
should, too.

But built into this idea is a misconception about how the immigration system
works. It assumes that it is, on its face, fair, efficient and accessible. The
assumption seems to be that immigrants from Mexico or elsewhere are thumbing
their noses at American law because they are not willing to pay a few hundred
dollars and wait their turn for a year or two.

Generally, this is not the case. Try applying at age 20 and not being approved
until 40 - if you're lucky to be approved at all.

"It's not that they are not willing to wait a year or two," says David Shirk, an
expert at the Transborder Institute in San Diego. "It's that it would be 10, 20
years before they could come across the border, and that's not realistic in
terms of their need to eat. The lack of visa availability, especially with visas
for low-skilled workers in the U.S.  economy, creates an insurmountable obstacle
to legal entry."

3. "And they still don't bother to learn English."

So says Pete M from New Mexico.

Others frequently make the same comment. Indeed, at one point when I was writing
a story about immigration in Florida, a Navy veteran said much the same thing -
while being interviewed in perfect English, on camera, by an Ivy-League educated
daughter of Cuban immigrants. Still, the idea persists, not entirely without
reason. Many immigrants, legal and illegal, can still be heard at grocery stores
or anywhere else speaking the language of their home countries. Americans often
assume this means the immigrants - especially those speaking Spanish -- do not
speak English, and do not choose to learn it.

But a look overall at rates of acquiring English shows that the current batch of
immigrants, with and without documentation, are moving along quite quickly -
faster than, say, German immigrants in the 19th Century.

This is widely supported by an array of research, all of which happens to be
well summarized in this fact sheet[PDF] from the libertarian Cato Institute.

Of course, since I started writing this post, dozens of other comments have come
in. What questions or criticism do you think needs to be addressed head on? Ask
and I will try to answer.


     ·    Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
     ·    Reader Q. and A.: Upending Immigration in Mexico
     ·    Money Sent Home by Mexicans Almost Stagnant in 2007
     ·    Tear Gas Over Borders
     ·    Breaking Point in Immigration Debate


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              98 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Legislature In California Is Set to Pass A Dream Act

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1019 words


LOS ANGELES -- The California Legislature is poised to pass a law that would
allow illegal immigrants to receive state-financed aid for college. Known as the
California Dream Act, the bill underscores the ways states are navigating their
own way through controversial immigration issues, as the Obama administration
has been unable to make headway on plans for an overhaul of immigration laws.

While the state law would do nothing to provide a path to citizenship for
illegal immigrants, it would provide them with more education benefits than they
have in any other state. Advocates of the legislation say it would also send a
powerful message to President Obama and Congress, forcing them to reconcile a
patchwork of state laws that contradict one another.

Gov. Jerry Brown, a Democrat, said during his campaign last fall that he would
support such a law and signed legislation this summer that gave illegal
immigrants access to privately financed state scholarships and other aid. While
he has not publicly said that he would sign this second measure, Mr. Brown's
staff members have been working with legislators to amend the bill in order to
trim some costs.

The Democratic-controlled Senate overwhelmingly approved the bill on Wednesday
along a party-line vote. The amended bill is expected to pass the
Democratic-controlled State Assembly in the next week.

Assemblyman Gil Cedillo of Los Angeles, the lead author of the bill, has
persistently made an economic argument to convince his colleagues.

''We will soon have to replace one million workers who leave the work force,''
Mr. Cedillo said. ''Why would we cut ourselves off from students who have
demonstrated since they got here that they have tremendous talent and
resilience? This is a very smart decision for the state. It's not necessarily
popular or without controversy, but we have to get these students fully
educated.''

The bill is particularly controversial at a time when the state is facing major
budget problems and drastically cutting spending on higher education.

The legislation is expected to cost about $40 million, according to an analysis
by the State Senate, about 1 percent of the state's total $3.5 billion budget
for college financial aid.

Assemblyman Tim Donnelly, a Republican who represents San Bernardino, said that
he would try to organize a ballot referendum to overturn the legislation.

''The governor is coming to the folks and saying they need to pay more, and then
he's going to turn around and say we still have money to hand over to people who
are in the country illegally,'' Mr. Donnelly said. ''That is absolutely wrong.
We are saying to the world: 'If you haven't come to California yet illegally,
come as soon you can.' And we're saying to the people who came legally: 'You
guys are idiots.' ''

The law would allow illegal immigrants and out-of-state students who attended
California high schools for three years or more to apply for the financial aid.

In 2001, the state passed a law allowing those same students to be eligible for
in-state tuition. The University of California, California State University and
community college systems now enroll roughly 40,000 such students, about 1
percent of the total enrollment.

Because they lack work visas, many of those students are still unable to secure
jobs for which they may be qualified. Opponents of the state Dream Act argue
that such legislation would only increase the number of college graduates
without jobs.

But supporters contend that many students may get legal status while they are in
school, because they have already applied for legal residency or citizenship, a
process that can take decades. And they are holding out hope that the Obama
administration and Congress will approve the federal Dream Act, which would give
students who have graduated from college or served in the military a path to
citizenship.

Ana Gomez, whose parents brought her from Mexico to the United States when she
was 7 years old, graduated from the University of California, Los Angeles, in
2009 and said she was among the few in her group of friends who did not have to
spend semesters away from campus to make more money to pay for tuition. Most of
them relied on odd jobs that paid cash because they did not have work permits.

''People are really struggling to stay and make it through,'' Ms. Gomez said.
''Being able to attend and get in-state tuition is one thing, but then you have
to find a way to pay for it, and it's next to impossible. A lot of kids just get
stuck in community college. This changes all of that.''

The legislation that Mr. Brown signed in July allowed illegal immigrants to
apply for a pool of $80 million in state scholarships that are financed through
private sources. The bill that passed Wednesday would allow them to also gain
access to $40 million in grants and scholarships that are paid for by the state.

Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform,
which sued the state to overturn the law granting illegal immigrants in-state
tuition, called the bill ''a really stupid allocation of limited resources.''

''It certainly ranks up there as one of the most dramatic moves, but I leave it
up the California Legislature to outdo themselves,'' Mr. Mehlman said.

He added, ''In every way possible the state is catering to illegal aliens even
if it comes at the cost of other legal citizens.''

Although there has been vocal opposition to the bill, it has benefited from
widespread support; the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, university presidents
and agricultural leaders have all backed the legislation.

Former Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger vetoed similar legislation three times while
he was in office.

Public opinion on illegal immigrants has shifted sharply in the state over the
last several years, said Dan Schnur, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh
Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California.

''Five years ago, this was politically risky,'' Mr. Schnur said. ''Fifteen or 20
years ago, it would have been political suicide. But today, it is hard to see it
having much of a political impact one way or another here.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In July, Gov. Jerry Brown signed a bill that gave illegal
immigrants access to privately financed scholarships and other aid. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           September 1, 2011 Thursday

No Slack for Obama's Uncle

BYLINE: HELENE COOPER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 181 words



HIGHLIGHT: President Obama won't intervene on behalf of his illegal immigrant
uncle, who was charged with drunk driving.


President Obama's uncle won't be getting any slack from federal law enforcement
authorities, White House officials said Thursday.

The White House press secretary, Jay Carney, said Thursday that the president
wasn't aware that his uncle, Onyango Obama, had been arrested and charged with
drunken driving in Framingham, Mass., last week, or that he was being held in
immigration detention on charges of overstaying his visa.

Mr. Carney said that he informed Mr. Obama of the arrest Thursday morning after
reading about it in a newspaper. He said that the president would not be
intervening on behalf of his uncle, and that he expected the Justice Department
to handle the case in a routine manner.

Onyango Obama, from Kenya, is the half-brother of the president's father, Barack
Obama Sr.


     ·    Caucus Video: Job Plans Aplenty From 2012 Candidates; the Debt
          Committee Begins Work
     ·    Obama Reschedules Economy Speech at Boehner's Request
     ·    Caucus Video: The Political Response to Irene
     ·    Caucus Video: Op-Ed Columnist on the 2012 Field; the Upcoming Fight
          Over Payroll Taxes
     ·    Rick Perry's Scientific Campaign Method


LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              100 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           September 23, 2011 Friday

Perry's Immigration Problem

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 805 words



HIGHLIGHT: At the debate Thursday, the Texas governor was attacked ferociously
by his rivals for supporting tuition discounts for the children of illegal
immigrants who attend the state's colleges.


ORLANDO, Fla. -- In 2007, Senator John McCain of Arizona discovered the hard way
that a moderate approach to illegal immigration was a nonstarter in the
Republican presidential contest.

At every town-hall style meeting that year, conservative voters stood up and
assailed Mr. McCain for pursuing a "pathway to citizenship" and accused him of
supporting amnesty. The issue scared donors, drove activists away and nearly
derailed Mr. McCain's White House bid.

Now, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is facing the same challenge.

At the debate here on Thursday night, Mr. Perry was attacked ferociously by his
rivals for supporting tuition discounts for children of illegal immigrants who
attend Texas colleges.

Like Mr. McCain, Mr. Perry refused to back down, declaring that if someone
opposes the policy, "I don't think you have a heart."

And like they did to Mr. McCain, the audience quickly turned against Mr. Perry,
loudly booing his position on the issue and his refusal to give an inch.

Mitt Romney seized on Mr. Perry's immigration remarks Friday morning, mocking
the Texas governor for saying that immigration opponents don't have "a heart."

"I think if you are opposed to illegal immigration, it doesn't mean you don't
have a heart. It means you have a heart and a brain," Mr. Romney told attendees
of the Conservative Political Action Conference.

Strategists for Mr. Perry's rivals were beside themselves with glee after the
debate because they know what a difficult spot Mr. Perry now finds himself in.

One of the chief selling points for Mr. Perry has been that his policies and
personal narrative would help fire up the base of the Republican Party, and
especially the Tea Party movement.

But those were the very people who were booing him Thursday over immigration
(and also on his actions to require an HPV vaccine for girls). In a Fox News
focus group after the debate, participants called Mr. Perry's "heart" comment
"disgusting."

For Mr. Perry, the dilemma is how to repair the damage that his immigration
comments have created without leaving the impression that he is ready to
flip-flop on the particular issue of tuition assistance for immigrant children.

That will be difficult for several reasons.

First, Mr. Romney and his aides are ready to pounce at the first indication that
Mr. Perry is backing away from his previous views. They will use that to
undermine his other narrative -- of a hard-charging governor who is  anything
but wishy-washy.

Second, Mr. Perry's campaign by necessity must spend plenty of time in Iowa and
South Carolina in the coming weeks. Those are two states where the issue is
still very raw and where Mr. McCain found the voters to be particularly
unforgiving.

Third, the tuition assistance program that Mr. Perry supported in Texas is very
similar to the national Dream Act that Mr. Obama, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada
and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the minority leader, all supported. The
moderator of the Fox debate on Thursday even referred to it as the Texas Dream
Act.

The more that his rivals attach Mr. Perry to an Obama-like policy, the harder it
will be for him to convince conservative, Tea Party voters that they should not
hold it against him.

Can Mr. Perry figure a way out of the immigration box?

Mr. McCain did in 2007. After rebuilding his campaign in New Hampshire, Mr.
McCain found a new way of talking about immigration. He insisted he still
supported a "pathway to citizenship," but said that Republican voters were right
to demand border security first.

By emphasizing the timing, Mr. McCain quieted the critics. (It also helped that
the legislation he had been pushing in the Senate was shelved, taking the
immediate threat of an amnestylike bill off the table as an issue.)

It may be that Mr. Perry can try to focus on the benefits of educating illegal
immigrants in Texas, a point he tried to make repeatedly in the debate.

"We need to be educating these children because they will become a drag on our
society," Mr. Perry said. "I think that's what Texans wanted to do."

But his rivals are not going to let him reshape the conversation if they can
help it. Rick Santorum, the former senator from Pennsylvania, insisted that the
issue was the money.

"The point is, why are we subsidizing?" Mr. Santorum asked. "Not that they can't
go. They can go. They just have to borrow money, find other sources to be able
to go. And why should they be given preferential treatment as an illegal in this
country?  That's what we're saying."

Those are questions that Mr. Perry will have to answer. And he probably has to
answer them soon.


     ·    Debate Reinforces Republican Concerns About Perry
     ·    Perry Video Calls Obama 'President Zero'
     ·    Perry Sees Message in New York; Faults Bachmann HPV Claim
     ·    On the Trail in New Hampshire, Perry Focuses on Jobs
     ·    Rick Perry Has Stem Cell Procedure, Then Works to Bring it to Texas


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              101 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           September 30, 2011 Friday

Bachmann Video Aims at Perry on Immigration

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 448 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a new video, Michele Bachmann attacks Rick Perry's record and
remarks on immigration, especially that who disagree with him are heartless.


All week Gov. Rick Perry of Texas has been attacked by Republican rivals over
immigration, and on Friday, Representative Michele Bachmann delivered one of the
sharpest tongue-lashings of all.

"We can't settle for a president who doesn't understand that illegal immigration
is illegal and shouldn't be rewarded,'' Mrs. Bachmann says in a video released
by her campaign.

Never naming Mr. Perry in the 84-second video, Mrs. Bachmann nonetheless aims
directly at his record on immigration, which, because he is governor of a border
state, has been more moderate than policies favored by conservative Republicans
elsewhere in the country.

Mrs. Bachmann accuses Mr. Perry of promoting "magnet policies" like a law he
signed allowing undocumented residents who graduated from Texas high schools to
attend public colleges on in-state tuition.

She ridicules Mr. Perry for labeling a fence along all 1,200 miles of the
Texas-Mexico border "idiocy."  In Mr. Perry's view, it is more practical to
selectively fence the border and to police open areas.  But Mrs. Bachmann
responds: "I won't settle for porous borders. I will build a fence.''

In a new critique, she denounces Mr. Perry's position on Arizona's harsh
immigration law, which he has said he would not support in Texas. "We can't
settle for a president who said he supports states' rights but abandoned the
state of Arizona,'' Mrs. Bachmann says.

Sensing his vulnerability on immigration, Mr. Perry backed away Wednesday from a
remark in a debate in which he accused opponents of in-state tuition breaks of
being heartless. His word choice, he said in an interview with Newsmax.com, was
"inappropriate.''

Mrs. Bachmann is not having it. In her video she says: "Last week we
conservatives were accused of not having a heart.  Nothing could be further from
the truth.  It's just that we have a mind to go with that heart, and failing to
act rationally under the rule of law has created chaos on our borders.''

The remarks seem directed especially at Republicans in Iowa, where there are
signs that the immigration issue is stalling the momentum that Mr. Perry seized
from Mrs. Bachmann after she won the state's straw poll in August.  Earlier in
the week, Mrs. Bachmann's campaign manager, Keith Nahigian, identified Iowa as a
must-win state in her quest for the nomination. "She has to win Iowa and move on
from there,'' Mr. Nahigian said in an audio slide show the campaign released.
"By winning Iowa she will be on a path to victory.''


     ·    Romney Plays Up His Michigan Roots
     ·    After Perry's Debate Showing, Eyes Turn Toward Christie
     ·    Debate Reinforces Republican Concerns About Perry
     ·    Perry's Immigration Problem
     ·    Perry Video Calls Obama 'President Zero'


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              102 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday

Another Immigration Misconception

BYLINE: DAMIEN CAVE

LENGTH: 1186 words



HIGHLIGHT: Some of the most reputable academics who favor limited immigration
argue that  legislation to require all employers to verify the status of
prospective employers is vital if the goal is to limit the economic impact of
illegal immigration. But an approach that seems simple in concept would be
anything but simple in its consequences.


Yesterday I addressed three misconceptions swirling around immigration and the
latest story in our series, Immigration Upended, but one question seems to keep
arriving in my inbox and Twitter feed: Why not just go after employers? If
businesses can be regulated and punished into keeping their payrolls free of
illegal immigrants, wouldn't that solve the illegal immigration problem?

This is a policy that seems to have some consensus appeal,  including among New
York Times readers of various persuasions (here, here and here).

It also seems to be the only major immigration initiative being actively
discussed in Congress, where the House is advancing a bill that would make all
employers use E-Verify, a program that checks the immigration status of new
hires against a federal database.

Some of the most reputable academics who favor limited immigration, including
Steven Camarota, who calls himself "Mr. Work Site," argue that this kind of
legislation is vital - more so than anything else if the goal is reducing the
consequences of illegal immigration, which include depressed wages for
lower-skilled jobs. He argues that mandatory E-Verify coupled with a
presidential pledge to never allow amnesty could persuade several million
illegal immigrants to leave the United States and open up more jobs  for
Americans.

Other supporters of E-Verify see even more positive outcomes. But critics of
e-Verify, from  the right as well as the left,  consider Mr. Camarota's forecast
to be an unlikely scenario that also overlooks a number of unexpected,
problematic consequences.

E-Verify, whose Web site looks simple and efficient, can in fact generate
lengthy back-and-forths with the government, adding time, paperwork and more
computer checking to the hiring process. Bloomberg Government estimates that if
mandatory E-Verify had been in place last year, American businesses would have
spent an extra $2.7 billion complying.

The biggest impacts, in terms of time and struggle, would almost certainly be
felt by small businesses. Take a simple one, like  my father's, which fixes
churches around working-class New England. He tends to hire people who need
help - me, in high school, and often ex-cons with kids who have become
evangelical Christians in prison. More of his employees are  Spanish-speaking
these days, and while my father follows the law religiously, he does not have a
human resources division or an extra assistant who deals with hiring. His three
or four employees fill out their forms and work when there is work to do.

So the impacts of something like E-Verify, coupled with strong enforcement that
includes large enough fines to deter illegal hiring, could generally go one of
two ways. First, consider the negative scenarios.  It's a simple matter of math
to foresee that a  business like my father's - small and barely surviving -
could go belly up because of fines associated with a new program the owner
didn't really have time to figure out.

Now imagine that case multiplied. Some say the damage could build into a
political problem, if across the country, plumbers and spa owners, home health
care agencies and janitors begin  complaining loudly on the evening news about
new government regulations that strained their businesses to the breaking point.
Some might be unscrupulous cheats but others would no doubt be members of
churches that object to  get-tough immigration laws and  keep  illegal workers
out of compassion.

That could play badly  in swing states, particularly  in the midst of a
persistent economic downturn.

On the rosier side of our hypotheticals, some small business owners might be
thrilled to have their less-than-honest competitors forced to compete on a more
level playing field, not with workers who accepted below-market rates because it
was all they could get while working illegally. Those business owers who
complain about tougher laws could be seen by the public as the cause of the
problem - ingrates who were willing to look the other way  in order to  pay
workers less than a living wage. Some analysts see an eventual increase in
wages for Americans overall.

Which scenario is more likely? No one knows.

What makes any attempt to alter  the  immigration environment so difficult is
that  the illegal immigrant population today is so large and rooted, in an array
of areas, with a web of relationships that are hard to untangle. Many immigrant
families include a mix of legal and illegal residents. Their presence affects
nearly  everything - businesses, churches, schools - and the situation in rural
Alabama is far different than it is in Miami, New York, or in California's
agricultural areas. For  the members of Congress tasked with legislation, the
political and pragmatic calculations are especially tough to figure out.

Mr. Camarota maintains that in the aggregate, the benefits of tougher laws would
outweigh the costs, which he says might include a few shuttered businesses and
slightly higher prices on products that rely heavily on illegal immigrant labor.
In recent cases where large work site raids forced companies to stop hiring
illegal immigrants, he said, businesses found legal replacement workers and in
most cases paid them a little more. "Whatever the employers say, their actual
behavior is different," he said.

And yet, there are also counterexamples - Alabama farms that are struggling as
people leave in the wake of a tough new law targeting illegal immigrants  -
just as there are longer-term questions. Would more rules and immigration fines
for employers drive more businesses to move operations offshore? Many West Coast
farmers now go to Mexico when they want to expand, according to internal
industry surveys, in part (farmers tell me) because it is easier than finding
workers and dealing with regulations in the United States. Could E-Verify
accelerate that trend?

More broadly, as one New York Times commenter noted, why focus on illegal
immigrants as the cause of low wages, not corporate executives who are paid
increasingly large salaries, even when their businesses fail?

The clear challenge for  Congress is to create a system that would hold the
worst employers accountable while mitigating the cost to small businesses, and
even immigrants who would prefer to work legally, pay taxes, and compete with
American workers on a fair, meritocratic playing field.

But experts of all stripes say that such an effort does not appear to be under
way. And to understand why it is so hard to simply go after employers who hire
illegal immigrants, just remember that it is a policy that puts one of the
country's most revered groups - small businesses - on the defensive. Think of
those guys in your neighborhood driving around in pick-up trucks with their
family name on the side. Even if they like the idea of something like E-Verify,
the fine print and their own personal stake is what they care about most. They
are not easily pleased and, as Joe the Plumber proved in 2008, they tend to get
a lot of attention when they speak up.


     ·    Immigration Upended: Damien Cave Answers Readers' Questions
     ·    X-Ray Scan Reveals 513 Migrants in 2 Trucks


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              103 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Choice)

                            October 10, 2011 Monday

Dream Act Becomes Law in California

BYLINE: REBECCA R. RUIZ

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 327 words



HIGHLIGHT: Over the weekend, Governor Brown signed a law that will help illegal
immigrants pay for college, and he also rejected affirmative action in
admissions.


In California, illegal immigrants enrolling in college will be eligible for
state scholarships and financial aid beginning next July.

Over the weekend, Gov. Jerry Brown signed the second portion of the state's
Dream Act into law. The legislation allows illegal immigrants who graduate from
high schools in California to apply to the state's public universities as
residents, granting them a reduced tuition rate. (Students must prove themselves
to be "on the path to legalization," meaning that if they are undocumented, they
must apply for lawful immigration status or swear to do so.)

The law also affords such students the right to both private loans and public
aid to help in paying for their education.

Also on Saturday, the governor signed a controversial bill on affirmative action
in college admissions, legislation that had inspired protests at the University
of California, Berkeley, and beyond.

Mr. Brown rejected the consideration of affirmative action in admissions, and in
that "ducked a costly legal battle," according to The San Francisco Chronicle.
As the Chronicle reported on Sunday:

Because of Prop. 209 - the 1996 constitutional amendment approved by California
voters that outlaws "preferential treatment" on the basis of race, sex, color,
ethnicity or national origin in public employment, education or contracting -
Brown said the courts, not the Legislature, should decide if changes can be
made.

According to the Chronicle, more than 25,000 undocumented citizens graduate from
high school in California each year. Mr. Brown said in a statement that the
Dream Act would give them "a chance to improve their lives and the lives of all
of us.''



     ·    Fordham Holds Bake Sale in Response to Berkeley's
     ·    Affirmative Action in Admissions Protested With Pro-Rated Pastries
     ·    Roundup: Michigan Admissions, Student Loans and Prospects for Film
          Graduates
     ·    Surveying the Admissions Landscape in California
     ·    University of California System Assembles First Waiting Lists


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              104 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday

Bachmann Goes After Perry on Immigration and Pledges Border Fence

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 555 words



HIGHLIGHT: Representative Michele Bachmann gave a speech Saturday about the
burdens illegal immigration places on American taxpayers and signed a pledge to
build a "secure double fence" the border with Mexico.


PERRY, Iowa - Representative Michele Bachmann gave one of the great stem-winding
speeches of her campaign Saturday about the burdens illegal immigration places
on American taxpayers, and she signed a pledge to build a "secure double fence"
along every foot of the border with Mexico.

Citing figures from two conservative groups, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform and the Heritage Foundation, Mrs. Bachmann said illegal
immigration cost the country $113 billion a year, with the highest costs coming
from education.  Stating that 50 percent of illegal immigrants who are heads of
households don't have a high school diploma, she said such households receive
"taxpayer-subsidized benefits" of $43,084 a year.

She gave her speech in this central Iowa community at an event the campaign
billed as "Bachmann Takes it to Perry Rally,'' which she later called a
tongue-in-cheek reference to Gov. Rick Perry of Texas.

Mr. Perry stole much of the heat and light of Mrs. Bachmann's campaign after
entering the race in August, but he lost the support of some conservatives after
his policies on illegal immigration, including advocating in-state tuition for
the children of illegal immigrants, became known during recent debates.

Though Mr. Perry has fallen in polls nationally and in Iowa, Mrs. Bachmann has
not been the beneficiary - Herman Cain has.  She seemed to be staking out a
red-meat stance on illegal immigration to appeal to voters in Iowa, where her
campaign has placed almost all its chips.

"People are very upset across Iowa about illegal immigration," she told
reporters after her speech. "People have asked me about it at every stop I've
gone to.''

"The governor of Texas,'' she continued, "has brought this issue up and was
proud of the fact of offering in-state tuition credits to illegal aliens.''

During her speech, she told the audience, about 60 people, that the law Mr.
Perry signed allowing children of undocumented families who graduated from a
Texas high school to attend a state college on in-state tuition violated a 1996
federal law. "We have a kind of 'don't ask, don't tell' policy in our colleges
and universities," she said, adding that Texas taxpayers subsidize illegal
immigrants' in-state tuition to the tune of $25.9 million annually.

Mrs. Bachmann sought to clarify that in forcefully pressing the issue of illegal
immigration, she was not taking aim at Hispanics. "Can I just lay it on the line
here and say, I talk to people all across Iowa, I don't hear the people of Iowa
are racist or bigoted,'' she said.

It is a question of fairness, she said. She compared her own family of "honest,
hard-working" Norwegian immigrants, who came to Iowa legally seven generations
ago, "and with their own hands plowed the fields and felled the trees.''

"That's what we need to have again,'' she asserted to strong applause. "When
they came in, they agreed they'd learn our Constitution, they'd live under the
laws of Iowa and the United States, they agreed to learn English and to
assimilate into their society.''

"It's high time,'' she said, "we stood up unashamedly" on this issue.


     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    Obama Campaign Treating Romney Like Nominee - By Attacking
     ·    Christie Endorses Romney Ahead of Debate
     ·    Huntsman Calls for New Foreign Policy
     ·    Iowa Republicans Eye Jan. 3 for Caucuses


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              105 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday

Cain Proposes Electrified Border Fence

BYLINE: EDWARD WYATT

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 742 words



HIGHLIGHT: Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain said Saturday that part
of his immigration policy would be to build an electrified fence on the
country's border with Mexico that could kill people trying to enter the country
illegally.


Republican presidential candidate Herman Cain said Saturday that part of his
immigration policy would be to build an electrified fence on the country's
border with Mexico that could kill people trying to enter the country illegally.

The remarks, which came at two campaign rallies in Tennessee as part of a
barnstorming bus tour across the state, drew loud cheers from crowds of several
hundred people at each rally. At the second stop, in Harriman, Tenn., Mr. Cain
added that he also would consider using military troops "with real guns and real
bullets" on the border to stop illegal immigration.

The remarks were among the most pointed yet by Mr. Cain about illegal
immigration, and they come as he is enjoying a surge in national political polls
on the back of his victory in a recent Florida straw poll.

It is not the first time that Mr. Cain has floated the idea of an electrified
fence. He has told the story many times of a caller to his former radio show who
chastised him for talking about building a border fence, saying that such an
idea was impractical. Mr. Cain often says he told the caller that he had
recently returned from China, and if the Chinese could build the Great Wall then
America could build a border fence.

Last summer, after President Obama remarked that some Republicans seemed to want
a moat filled with alligators in addition to a fence, Mr. Cain responded by
saying that he would indeed add an alligator-filled moat to his proposed fence,
which would be topped with electrified  barbed wire.

In his remarks on Saturday, Mr. Cain appeared to go a step further. Speaking to
a rally sponsored by the Roane County Tea Party, Mr. Cain said that part of his
plan would be to "secure the border for real" with a fence.

"It's going to be 20 feet high. It's going to have barbed wire on the top. It's
going to be electrified. And there's going to be a sign on the other side
saying, 'It will kill you -- Warning.'" At an earlier rally, on the campus of
Tennessee Tech University in Cookeville, Tenn., he added that the sign would be
written "in English and in Spanish."

"This nation has always been a nation with wide open doors," Mr. Cain said at
the second rally. "We want to make it easy for people to come through the front
door. And we're going to shut off the back door so you don't have to sneak into
America."

Saying that some critics have told him that his remarks about building a fence
are insensitive, Mr. Cain said that the fault lies with the actions of some
illegal immigrants. "It's insensitive for them to be killing our citizens,
killing our border agents," he said. "That's what's insensitive. And that mess
has to stop."

In addition using a fence and unspecified "technology" to cut down on illegal
immigration, Mr. Cain added:  "If we have to put troops with real guns and real
bullets for part of it, we can do that too."

Brent Wilkes, Vice Chair of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, said Mr.
Cain's remarks were reflective of increasingly harsh prescriptions for dealing
with illegal immigration being offered by Republican presidential candidates.

"These folks who come across the border are at most committing a misdemeanor,"
Mr. Wilkes said. "To suggest that they would be electrocuted or shot would be to
treat them harsher than we treat murderers or rapists. It's a real distortion of
the rule of law."

Mr. Wilkes said Mr. Cain is mistaken when he implies that it would be easy for
would-be Mexican immigrants to enter the country legally. In fact, he said,
there are few if any visas available for Mexican nationals who do not have a
firm job offer in this country or who do not already have relatives living here
legally.

After long being considered an also-ran in the Republican field, Mr. Cain has
surged into the spotlight following his victory in the Florida straw poll and
because of interest in his unusual 9-9-9 tax plan, which would set personal and
business income tax rates at 9 percent each and institute a 9 percent national
sales tax, eliminating all other federal taxes.

The Tennessee tour, which began Friday near Memphis, Mr. Cain's birthplace, has
drawn crowds of several hundred supporters and curious onlookers at each of
eight stops.


     ·    Bachmann Goes After Perry on Immigration and Pledges Border Fence
     ·    Cain Reports Raising $2.8 Million
     ·    A Look at the Debates, Beyond the Big Moments
     ·    Obama Raises More Than $42 Million for Campaign
     ·    Obama Campaign Treating Romney Like Nominee - By Attacking


LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              106 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            October 16, 2011 Sunday

Cain Says His Deadly Fence Plan Was 'a Joke'

BYLINE: SUSAN SAULNY AND SARAH WHEATON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 603 words



HIGHLIGHT: Herman Cain's remarks on a deadly border fence were taken seriously,
but the candidate says they shouldn't have been.


Visit msnbc.com   for breaking news, world news, and news about the economy

At two campaign rallies in Tennessee on Saturday night, the Republican
presidential candidate Herman Cain said that part of his immigration policy
would be to build an electrified fence on the country's border with Mexico that
could kill people trying to enter the country illegally.

But by Sunday morning, in a dramatic change of tone, Mr. Cain, a former
restaurant executive, said he was only kidding.

"That's a joke," Mr. Cain told the journalist David Gregory during an appearance
on NBC's "Meet the Press," where he was asked about the electrified fence.
"That's not a serious plan. I've also said America needs to get a sense of
humor."

Mr. Cain's attempt to pass off incendiary comments as nothing but a joke may
take more effort, however. In making the initial remarks about an electrified
fence killing illegal immigrants, Mr. Cain was detailed and repetitive. He did
not introduce his thoughts as anything but serious commentary, beginning with
the words, "We have a crisis of illegal immigration."

And the crowds responded with cheers, not laughs.

As Ed Wyatt reported on Saturday from Tennessee:

The remarks, which came at two campaign rallies as part of a barnstorming bus
tour across the state, drew loud cheers from crowds of several hundred people at
each rally. At the second stop, in Harriman, Tenn., Mr. Cain added that he also
would consider using military troops "with real guns and real bullets" on the
border to stop illegal immigration.

The remarks were among the most pointed yet by Mr. Cain about illegal
immigration, and they come as he is enjoying a surge in national political polls
on the back of his victory in a recent Florida straw poll.

When Mr. Gregory asked if Mr. Cain would describe himself as a
"neoconservative," -- the foreign policy approach championed by the Bush
administration that favored the aggressive use of military power to promote
American interests and values abroad -- Mr. Cain seemed unsure:

MR. CAIN: I'm not sure what you mean by neoconservative. I am a conservative,
yes. Neoconservative -- labels sometimes will put you in a box. I'm very
conservative.

MR. GREGORY: You're familiar with the neoconservative movement?

MR. CAIN: I'm not familiar with the neoconservative movement. I'm familiar with
the conservative movement. Let me define what I mean by the conservative moment:
less government, less taxes, more individual responsibility.

Mr. Cain also found himself on the defensive on his tax plan when he addressed a
Washington Post report that his proposal to impose a 9 percent income tax, 9
percent corporate tax and a 9 percent sales tax would hurt  many poor and
middle-class families. Analysts say that since those families pay little to no
taxes under the current tax structure, they would now pay both income and
additional sales taxes.

"Some people will pay more," he said. "But most people will pay less, is my
argument."

Mr. Cain also dismissed a Wall Street Journal editorial critique that "a 9% rate
when combined with state and local levies would mean a tax on goods of 17% or
more in many places."

"Don't combine it with state taxes," he said. "This doesn't address state taxes.
If you combine it together, yes, you would get that number. This is a
replacement structure. These are replacement taxes, they're not on top of
anything."

Mr. Gregory asked then him, "Are you saying they're going to be repealed?"

Mr. Cain replied: "With the current structure, you have state taxes, right? So
with this new structure, you're still going to have state taxes. That is
muddying the water."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              107 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            October 18, 2011 Tuesday

Las Vegas Debate Fact Check

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1737 words



HIGHLIGHT: New York Times reporters examine statements from candidates in the
Republican field on immigration, the economy, foreign policy and health care.


PREV

     ·
          Ethan Miller/Getty Images
     ·
          Ethan Miller/Getty Images
     ·
          Monica Almeida/The New York Times
     ·
          Paul Buck/European Pressphoto Agency
     ·
          Monica Almeida/The New York Times
     ·
          Monica Almeida/The New York Times
     ·
          Monica Almeida/The New York Times


NEXT

Mitt Romney and Gov. Rick Perry in one of many heated exchanges.

Romney's Texas Jobs Claim

In an  attack on Gov. Rick Perry's record on job creation in Texas, Mitt Romney
said 40 percent of the jobs created in the state while Mr. Perry was governor
went to illegal immigrants.

Mr. Romney was citing a recent study by the Center for Immigration Studies, a
conservative-leaning think tank that favors reducing immigration over all. The
study, by Steve Camarota, a demographer, found that 81 percent of the jobs
created in Texas since 2007 went to recently arrived immigrant workers,
including both legal and illegal immigrants. About half of the jobs, or about 40
percent, went to newly arrived illegal immigrants, the study found.

Governor Perry's campaign says the study is false, arguing essentially that it
could not be right because the numbers did not add up. A post on the Perry
campaign Web site cites a statistic from the Bureau of Labor Statistics showing
that Texas has gained 384,700 jobs since 2007. Department of Homeland Security
figures cited by the campaign show that 60,000 illegal immigrants arrived in
Texas in that period.  That number does not amount to 40 percent of the new
jobs. So, Mr. Perry says, the math and the study must be wrong.

-

Romney and Illegal Immigration

Governor Perry went on the offensive to attack Mr. Romney over an immigration
controversy that came to light when Mr. Romney campaigned for president in 2008.

"You hired illegals in your home and you knew about it for a year," Mr. Perry
said.

He said that a year after Mr. Romney first learned that illegal immigrants  were
taking care of his lawn, those immigrants were still working for him. Mr.
Romney's claim that he is tough on illegal immigration is "the height of
hypocrisy," Mr. Perry said.

Mr. Romney fired back, "I don't think I've ever hired an illegal immigrant in my
life."  He gave a long explanation:  when he discovered that his landscaping
company had sent illegal immigrants to his home for the second time, he fired
the company and told the illegal immigrants working at his house to leave.

It isn't clear that Mr. Romney ever knew directly that his landscaping company
was using illegal immigrants to tend his lawn.  But the episode was embarrassing
for Mr. Romney, and it is still awkward now.

The Boston Globe first reported in December 2006 that Mr. Romney was employing a
lawn care company that regularly hired illegal immigrants. Mr. Romney said he
told an illegal immigrant working on his property to leave but continued to use
the same lawn service company. A  year later, The Globe reported that the
service had once again sent illegal immigrants to Mr. Romney's house in Belmont,
Mass.  On the same day as the Globe report was published, Mr. Romney fired the
company.

At that time, Mr. Romney said he had continued to use the same company because
the company had guaranteed that it would not hire any illegal immigrants.

In Tuesday's debate, Mr. Romney said he would combat illegal immigration by
adopting a nationwide electronic program to verify the immigration status of all
new hires.

-

Border Fence

Is it possible to build a fence along the entire 2,000-mile United States-Mexico
border? And if it is, is it worth the cost and would it effectively secure the
border?

Most of the candidates are competing to outdo one another on their support for
building a fence -- as Mrs. Bachmann has put it -- "on every mile, every foot,
every inch" of the border. Mr. Cain has called for an electrified fence that
could "kill" people, a statement he later said was in jest, then later still
said he meant.

Only Mr. Perry, whose state shares 1,200 miles of border, begs to differ about
the sense of a hard fence on every mile, without conceding one iota of his own
commitment to securing the border.

It would take 10 to 15 years and cost $30 billion to build a complete fence, Mr.
Perry said, arguing that a more cost-effective way is to build a fence in
high-traffic areas and to use "boots on the ground" and Predator drones to
monitor other areas. "That is the way to shut that border down," he said.

The Department of Homeland Security agrees with Mr. Perry. Officials say that a
hard fence is prohibitively costly and inefficient, given that many stretches of
the border are in remote mountain areas.  To date, according to my colleague
Julia Preston, who covers immigration, the department has completed about 650
miles of hard fence, mostly in cities and at points of heavy illegal crossings.
Most of that work was done under the Bush administration.

A report in February by the Government Accountability Office found that border
authorities, by their own measure, had "operational control" of only 873 miles,
or 43 percent, of the border.

Homeland security officials responded that they could either patrol or monitor
81 percent of the border, and that the remaining areas were hostile terrain
where illegal crossings are rare.

The Obama administration, with the support of Border Patrol officials, has
focused on surveillance technology, equipping the Border Patrol with dozens of
fixed remote surveillance systems for busy crossing points and mobile
surveillance units for mountainous terrain.

The Center for Immigration Studies, a Washington think tank that seeks to lower
immigration, wants more border security but does not favor a fence across the
entire border.

(Incidentally, apprehensions by the Border Patrol dropped to 448,000 in 2010,
the lowest number since 1972, according to the Department of Homeland Security.
The decline under the Obama administration accelerated a drop in border
apprehensions that began under President George W. Bush. Since 2005,
apprehensions at the Mexican border are down 61 percent.)

That is not stopping most of the Republican candidates from calling for a
mile-by-mile fence. Over the weekend, Mrs. Bachmann raised her own bid, signing
a pledge to build a "double fence" along the border.

-

A Model Plan?

Another Republican presidential debate, another attack on Mitt Romney for the
health care plan that was the centerpiece of his tenure as Massachusetts
governor but has since emerged as the most frequent point of attack for his
Republican rivals.

Tonight the attack came from Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who criticized Mr. Romney
for the plan and said it was the basis of President Obama's health care plan,
more commonly known among Republicans as "Obamacare."

Mr. Romney punched back, suggesting that he never thought his plan would or
should be a model for a national program to expand health insurance.

Mr. Romney said that during the 2008 campaign, "I was asked: 'Is this something
that you would have the whole nation do?' And I said: 'No; this is something
that was crafted for Massachusetts. It would be wrong to adopt this as a
nation.' "

Not exactly. Mr. Romney has repeatedly suggested that he believed that the
Massachusetts program -- and in particular its mandate for individuals to
purchase health insurance plans -- would be a good model for the rest of the
country.

During an appearance on "Meet the Press" in December 2007, Mr. Romney said that
while he did believed that every state would face different circumstances, his
program was "a good model for other states."

"I think it's a good model for other states. Maybe not every state but most, and
so what I'd do at the federal level is give every state the same kind of
flexibility we got from the federal government as well as some carrots and
sticks to actually get all their citizens insured. And I think a lot of states
will choose what we did."

Mr. Romney added that he would not want a policy that would force other states
to adopt the Massachusetts model -- which Mr. Obama's health care bill, in some
sense, does -- but suggested that other states should consider the mandate.

"So if a state chose a mandate, it wouldn't bother you?" asked the host, Tim
Russert.

"I'd think it's a terrific idea," Mr. Romney answered. "I think you're going to
find when it's all said and done, after all these states that are the
laboratories of democracy get their chance to try their own plans,  those who
follow the path that we pursued will find it's the best path, and we'll end up
with a nation that's taken a mandate approach."

-

A Deeper Look at 9-9-9

Herman Cain said his much-discussed "9-9-9" plan "does not raise taxes on those
that are making the least. It's simply not true."

But that is exactly what a growing number of independent analysts have
concluded.

The plan calls for deep cuts in the existing federal taxes on individual and
corporate income, both of which would be reduced to a flat rate of 9 percent
from a system of tiered rates that run above 30 percent for the highest earners.
Mr. Cain then proposes the addition of a 9 percent tax on sales.

Analysts say Mr. Cain's plan would raise taxes for lower-income families, while
reducing the taxes paid by higher-income families.

"Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan is a terrific example of fiscal hocus-pocus," Edward
D. Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of Southern California, writes
in a coming analysis of the plan for the trade journal Tax Notes. "It is
presented as a low-tax panacea, but it actually would raise the tax bills of
many Americans very substantially."

Professor Kleinbard estimated that a family with $120,000 in 2010 income would
have paid $541 less in federal taxes under Mr. Cain's plan. A family that earned
$50,000, by contrast, would have paid $4,800 more.

The Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings
Institute, concluded that the plan amounted to a 25.38 percent national sales
tax. Flat sales taxes fall more heavily on lower-income families, siphoning off
a much larger share of their total income.

It is also important to note that the 9-9-9 plan is only a transitional stage in
Mr. Cain's broader plan to overhaul federal taxation. He has proposed the
ultimate elimination of income taxes, in favor of a flat 30 percent sales tax.

-


     ·    Fact Checking the Republican Debate on the Economy
     ·    Fact Checking the G.O.P. Debate in Orlando
     ·    Fact Check: Social Security, Health Care and More
     ·    Debate Suggests Brutish Campaign to Come
     ·    Spin Recycle: What the Post-Debate Debate Might Be


LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              108 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                            October 21, 2011 Friday

Battle of the Borders

BYLINE: PETER CATAPANO

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1410 words



HIGHLIGHT: While Republicans talked tough on immigration, the Obama
administration deported a record number of illegal immigrants.


It is probably safe to bet that the tradition of heated arguments over
immigration began millennia ago, when the first country drew a line in the sand.

 But the past week in the United States of America has been a hot one, at least
by any recent comparison.

You might say it began on Tuesday night, like many a bloody fight, in Vegas,
when this exchange took place at the Republican debate:

Rather unpleasant, no?

Or it could have been said to begin back on Saturday, when Herman Cain, at a Tea
Party sponsored event in Tennessee,  proposed an electrified fence - not the joy
buzzer type but the type that kills those who dare to breach it -  on the
U.S.-Mexico border. Or even earlier on Saturday, when Michele Bachmann,
campaigning in Iowa proposed her own "secure double fence" for the border.
(Bachmann, who seems to always have a pen handy, signed a pledge with the group
Americans for Securing the Border, affirming her commitment to the fence.)

Midweek, The Times's Trip Gabriel reported on the potential fallout for the
G.O.P. of this kind of tough talk: the alienation of droves of Latino voters in
battleground states in 2012.

And one might even suppose it culminated in an immigration fight of a different
sort -the late-week dust-up that began when a story in The Washington Post
asserted that the U.S. senator Marco Rubio, a Florida Republican, "embellished"
the story of his parents arrival in the United States from Cuba, for his
political advantage. Many - including The Miami Herald and Rubio himself -
responded with outrage at the story, and called the motives of the paper into
question. Rubio's stature as a popular Latino Republican, one who has been
mentioned as a vice-presidential candidate, has led some to assert that the
story itself was a "hit job."

And lest anyone think the issue breaks clearly down partisan lines, there was
this, as reported by The Hill: "The U.S. deported more people - nearly 400,000 -
who were in the country illegally in fiscal 2011 than ever before, according to
the latest numbers released Tuesday by the Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) bureau.

"President Obama's administration touted the startling figures as evidence of
its progress in stopping illegal immigration, a record that could help the
president win back independent voters who abandoned Democrats in the 2010
midterm elections."

Despite all the hot collars and flaring tempers brought on by the Republican
antics, it was this last point, a revealing bit of information on the Obama
administration's position on the matter, which opened a round of soul-searching
among some bloggers on the left. How tough should Democrats be on immigration
and border security?

Soon after the debate, Joe Klein at Swampland pointed out.

It should also be noted that all this macho posturing about electrified fences,
crocodiles etc. avoids the most basic fact about illegal immigration - it is
down dramatically. The bad economy means there are fewer jobs to lure illegals.
The efforts of the last several Presidents [have] significantly beefed up Border
Patrol, fencing and high-tech surveillance. And the Obama Administration has
been very tough on illegals-almost 400,000, a record, have been deported in the
past year. (Of course, you won't hear the Obama Administration touting this
since it might turn away Latino votes the President, like a strict Franciscan
Friar, does not tout his good works, like tax cuts and tightening the border.
Weird.)

Kevin Drum at Mother Jones replied to Klein's post:

I don't really have a big problem with beefing up the border patrol, but the
real answer to illegal immigration (in the short term, anyway) is to lower the
cost of legal immigration by boosting quota levels and to raise the cost of
illegal immigration by making it unprofitable for employers to hire undocumented
workers. That means getting E-verify to work and then tightening up the
enforcement and penalties on employers who cheat. It will be interesting to see
if the American public actually supports this once they see the results (no more
cheap gardeners, no more cheap vegetables, etc.), but the basic idea is hardly
impossible to implement.

So far, so good. Then Ryan Bonneville at The League of Ordinary Gentlemen threw
a wet blanket on the border patrol bandwagon:

As has been widely reported for several days now, Obama set a new deportation
record in the last fiscal year (narrowly edging out the previous record, which
also belonged to his administration). This is, no doubt, the latest in his
myriad attempts to co-opt the right and burnish his bipartisan credentials
heading into the upcoming election. ...

Any time he moves to the right, they are going to move further to the right, and
their base is going to move with them. There is nothing Obama can do to alter
the political calculus here.

But Bonneville truly sounded a note of despair about Klein, Drum and what he
calls the "feckless discourse" of Obama and his base on immigration:

Obama's base is as feckless as he is, which is why he expresses no compunctions
about the policy choices he makes. What do you say to Joe Klein when he claims
that the "most basic fact" about illegal immigration is that it's "down"? That
the real reason we don't need crocodiles patrolling the border has nothing at
all to do with the number of people illegally crossing it? Drum isn't much
better when his response is "I don't really have a big problem with beefing up
the border patrol". Why not, Kevin? ...

Instead of the fine, self-righteous rage I was working up about what a failure
Obama's presidency has been, I'm left mostly with disappointment. I don't want
to imply that there aren't any voices doing great work on this ([Adam] Serwer is
one of them, most of the time), but more and more it's becoming clear that Obama
is right about what liberals want, and I'm wrong. That's not infuriating; it's
crushing.

(For those who are riveted by this, Drum defends his stance in a response post,
which in turn elicited a response from Matt Yglesias.)

But still the fireworks were being generated by Republicans. On Thursday, Steven
Benen at Political Animal expanded on the Times analysis of the Latino voter
fallout:

A few weeks ago, Mitt Romney's campaign launched an attack ad, going after Rick
Perry for a Texas policy that offers in-state tuition to children of
undocumented immigrants. It was an ugly, borderline-racist commercial, intended
to exploit right-wing animus towards Latino immigrants. I noted at the time that
Romney appears to be hoping that these voters have short memories and will
forget about his divisive antics by Election Day 2012.

Of course, the larger issue goes well beyond one obnoxious ad. Given the extent
to which Republican presidential hopefuls are appealing to anti-immigrant
voters, the Latino community isn't exactly being made to feel welcome in the
GOP.

But it's clear Latino voters may not just run up against that problem with
Republicans. Adam Serwer, who Bonneville praises, had this to say even before
Tuesday's debate, on the cognitive dissonance of the administration's stance on
"immigration removal:"

In the twisted bizarro world of Washington politics, media conventions have
obliged journalists to report with equal "balance" the Republican claim that
Obama is pursuing a policy of "backdoor amnesty" even as he racks up more
deportations than any president ever before. You'll hear something similar at
the GOP debate tonight if the Republican candidates are asked what needs to be
done about illegal immigrations. Perhaps the other candidates will compete with
Herman Cain at imagining the most elaborate possible death trap that could be
placed at the border to deter would-be migrants.

What you won't hear about, however, is the human cost to the families, citizen
and non-citizen, impacted by the sheer volume and efficiency of the Obama
administraton's immigration removal policy. Neither side is particularly
interested in talking about that - Republicans because compassion for the
undocumented is political suicide, and the administration because it's
attempting a delicate balancing act between strict immigration enforcement
policies and maintaining the approval of Latino voters who were hoping for more
out of the Obama administration than record deportation numbers.

Some borders, it seems, can't be crossed.


     ·    Politicians, Love 'Em or Hate 'Em
     ·    Scold Your Own
     ·    Does It All Come Down to Medicare?
     ·    Budget Politics
     ·    The Pelosi-Bachmann Conundrum


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              109 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           November 2, 2011 Wednesday

Video Supporting Romney Compares Perry to Jerry Brown

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 206 words



HIGHLIGHT: A week for new ads and responses by both campaigns.


That didn't take long.

This week, a "super PAC" supporting Gov. Rick Perry of Texas went up with its
first television ads; the group, Make Us Great Again, is spending roughly
$200,000 in both Iowa and South Carolina over the next 10 days.

On Wednesday, the Romney campaign hit back - with a Web video.

The Romneyvideo has no narrator or anyone speaking - just elevator music over a
backdrop of text and images - and it attacks Mr. Perry over his immigration
policies as governor, linking him to Gov. Jerry Brown of California.

"Where did liberals in California get all their bad ideas?" reads the text.
"Rick Perry was first to give in-state tuition to illegal immigrants."

The spot concludes: "Rick Perry - supplying bad ideas to California since 2001."

Mark Miner, a spokesman for the Perry campaign, was quick to dismiss the
charges, citing Mr. Perry's firsthand experience dealing with immigration
concerns.

"Governor Perry is the only candidate in the race with front-line experience on
border security and immigration issues," Mr. Miner said in an e-mail. "It's
hypocritical for Mitt Romney to be critical on this issue considering he not
only hired illegal immigrants but also provided them with free health care when
he was governor."

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              110 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            November 4, 2011 Friday

Hello, It's a Message From Mitt Romney About Rick Perry

BYLINE: RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 258 words



HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Romney's campaign paid for  automated phone messages  to Iowans
that assert that the Texas governor has fostered illegal immigration.


Mitt Romney may be skipping some major GOP events in Iowa this week, but he's
still got his eye on someone who isn't:  his rival Rick Perry.

, Mr. Romney's campaign on Thursday  paid for  automated phone messages to
Iowans that assert that the Texas governor has fostered illegal immigration.

The attack message may signal that Mr. Romney still views Mr. Perry, despite his
recent slide in the polls, as his main threat in Iowa, which will hold its
first-in-the-nation caucuses on Jan. 3. The Perry campaign is betting all its
early-state chips on a strong showing in Iowa and South Carolina, while Mr.
Romney is far ahead in polls in New Hampshire (while also ahead of Mr. Perry in
the other early-voting states.)

According to the Associated Press, an Arizona sheriff who is considering running
for Congress named Paul Babeu states on the taped call that "Rick  Perry is part
of the illegal immigration problem."

Mr. Babeu also says:  "A lot of the candidates agree we need a border fence. And
almost all of them agree in-state tuition for illegal immigrants is wrong.
However, Rick Perry disagrees. Rick Perry not only opposes a border fence. But
he signed the bill to make Texas the first state in the nation to grant in-state
tuition discounts to illegal immigrants."

It wasn't clear how many calls were made. A Romney official said the messages
"weren't widespread robocalls" and that they stemmed from organizing a live
conference call with the sheriff. People were phoned to join the call, and those
who didn't answer were left the automated message.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              111 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Gingrich Risks Conservative Outrage on Immigration

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 998 words



HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich embraced a third rail of Republican politics Tuesday
night, saying that the country should find a way to make millions of illegal
immigrants legal.


Did Newt Gingrich have a "heartless" moment on Tuesday night?

In a September debate, Rick Perry, the governor of Texas, drew a furious
response from conservatives in his party when he said critics of in-state
tuition for illegal immigrants "did not have a heart." The response halted Mr.
Perry's momentum amid charges from rivals that he was too soft on the issue of
immigration for the party faithful.

Now, Mr. Gingrich - the newest leader in the national polls - has embraced a
similar apostasy: the idea that the country should find a way to make many
millions of illegal immigrants legal.

"There's a way to ultimately end up with a country where there's no more
illegality, but you haven't automatically given amnesty to anyone," Mr. Gingrich
said, citing a program from the Vernon K. Krieble Foundation.

That was enough for Mr. Gingrich's rivals to pounce. Mitt Romney, the former
governor of Massachusetts, refused to allow Mr. Gingrich to claim that his
suggestion was different than amnesty.

"If people who come here illegally are going to get to stay illegally for the
rest of their life, that's going to only encourage more people to come here
illegally," Mr. Romney said.

Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnestota agreed with Mr. Romney. "I don't
agree that you would make 11 million workers legal, because that in effect is
amnesty," she said.

Mr. Gingrich responded by pressing his case that the country - and the
Republican Party - would not be served by forcing the exile of immigrants who
had been in the country for years, paying taxes and staying out of legal
trouble.

"I don't see how the party that says it's the party of the family is going to
adopt an immigration policy which destroys families that have been here a
quarter century," Mr. Gingrich said during the debate. "And I'm prepared to take
the heat for saying let's be humane in enforcing the law without giving them
citizenship, but by finding a way to create legality so that they are not
separated from their families."

That came perilously close - without being quite as Texas-blunt as Mr. Perry was
- to suggesting that people who disagree with him on the issue are not humane.

But the question is whether Mr. Gingrich will find himself at the center of a
political storm this week, fending off charges that he does not represent the
mainstream of current conservative thinking on immigration.

That could represent the beginning of a newly difficult period for Mr. Gingrich,
whose success in the polls in recent days has begun to attract the kind of
scrutiny - from the media and from the activists in the Republican party - that
has proved difficult for some of his rivals.

But if Mr. Gingrich recognized that he had wandered into difficult political
territory during the debate, he did not seem too worried about it immediately
afterward.

In an interview with Gloria Borger of CNN within moments of the debate ending,
Mr. Gingrich stood by his comments, saying that "serious people" would not want
to break apart families in the interest of sending illegal immigrants home.

"I want to be tough," Mr. Gingrich said, responding to Ms. Borger's questions
about immigration. "But I can't imagine any serious person in this country that
says we are going to tear families apart who have been here 20 or 30 years."

Mr. Gingrich said that under his proposals, millions of people who had come to
the United States illegally - but recently - would be sent home. But he added
that the Republican candidates should "unify the country" by having an honest
conversation about what should be done with everyone else.

But his rivals don't seem to be in a mood for the kind of conversation that Mr.
Gingrich wants.

In a news release issued even before the debate was over, Mrs. Bachmann's
campaign cited what she called "Newt Gingrich's Open Door to Illegal Immigrant
Amnesty."

"Former House Speaker Newt Gingrich receives applause when he calls for
declaring English the official language of American government," she said in a
statement. "But his immigration policy effectively equates to amnesty for
foreigners residing in the United States unlawfully."

It will take more than criticism from Mrs. Bachmann to create a real firestorm
for Mr. Gingrich. But the immigration issue has a history of becoming too hot to
handle for Republican candidates.

In 2007, Senator John McCain of Arizona supported a legislative package of
comprehensive immigration changes that conservative critics derided as amnesty.
The legislation failed to earn support in Congress and became a constant problem
for Mr. McCain on the campaign trail.

He repeatedly got angry questions about the issue as he campaigned through Iowa
and South Carolina. And the issue helped dry up his donor base so much that his
campaign nearly collapsed.

For Mr. Gingrich, the immigration issue could be equally dangerous if it
reinforces concerns that some conservatives have about his commitment to their
positions on other important issues.

Mr. Gingrich once filmed a public service announcement on climate change with
Representative Nancy Pelosi, the former Democratic House speaker - though he now
says that was one of the dumbest things he ever did.

Right after entering the presidential contest, he also criticized the budget
plans of Representative Paul Ryan, the Republican chairman of the budget
committee. Faced with an outcry among conservatives, he backed off and said he
had been mistaken.

Now, the question is whether the criticism of his immigration position will be
forceful enough to make him back away.

Doing so might help him win the nomination. But it carries dangers as well: It
would add to the list of flip-flops that Democrats are already cataloging.

How will the conservatives react? And what will Mr. Gingrich decide to do? We
should know soon.


     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    2008: G.O.P. Rumble in Columbia
     ·    What if Perry Skips the Debates?
     ·    Debate Suggests Brutish Campaign to Come
     ·    Bachmann Goes After Perry on Immigration and Pledges Border Fence


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              112 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Gingrich Says the Right Thing! Film at 11

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 475 words



HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich's take on immigration is almost exactly right.


Two more people got voted off the X-factor last night. And for those who were
not watching that, on a nearby channel, no one got voted off the latest in a
grueling series of debates among the contenders for the Republican nomination.
There were so many strange, out of touch, and downright dangerous things said in
the area of national security that it was tempting to write all about them.

Instead, I thought I'd praise Newt Gingrich. There is not much Mr. Gingrich says
that I agree with, starting with the idea that he's qualified to be president.
But he had it right - actually almost exactly right - when he talked about
immigration.

Wolf Blitzer, who was moderating, pointed out that in the 80's, Mr. Gingrich
voted for the Simpson-Mazzoli Act, which provided a pathway to citizenship for
illegal immigrants. Mr. Gingrich acknowledged that he had, but pointed out that
the rest of the bill, a guest worker program and better border enforcement,
never came to pass.

I was half expecting Mr. Gingrich to say that he had been wrong, that we should
line all of our borders with razor wire and deport anyone who even looks like an
illegal immigrant. But he did not. He said, in fact, that there should be a
pathway to legalization for people who came here illegally but put down roots,
paid taxes and obeyed the law.

"I do not believe that the people of the United States are going to take people
who have been here a quarter century, who have children and grandchildren, who
are members of the community, who may have done something 25 years ago, separate
them from their families, and expel them," he said.

Mr. Gingrich, of course, was immediately attacked by most of the other GOP
contenders. They mostly tossed out the usual straw man - he was calling for
amnesty. (This is one of my favorite political tricks, by the way.)

Mr. Gingrich also said some rather odd things, like he seemed to rule out
illegal immigrants actually becoming full-fledged citizens. And he kept throwing
"belong to a local church" in to his list of qualifications to be a welcome
resident. Legalization without possible citizenship is just another dead-end
idea. And being a member of a church, local or otherwise, should never be a
litmus test for any government benefit.

Does saying nice things about immigrants improve Mr. Gingrich's already weak
chance of becoming the Republican nominee? If he actually got into the White
House, would the right-wingers who helped him get there ever allow him to pursue
real immigration reform? The answer to both is obviously, no.

But it was good to hear him embrace a position that was, after all, fairly
mainstream for Republicans only a few years ago, before the hard right took over
its agenda.


     ·    Moderator for a Day
     ·    Questions for the Candidates
     ·    Facebook Chat Redux
     ·    Mitt Romney's First TV Ad
     ·    How to Attack Your Opponent for Things He Didn't Do


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              113 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (FiveThirtyEight)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Gingrich, Immigration and 'What Would Reagan Do?'

BYLINE: NATE SILVER

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1167 words



HIGHLIGHT: Why Newt Gingrich's answer to a question on immigration policy in
Tuesday's debate will probably not be all that harmful to him.


Newt Gingrich was having what seemed to be a pretty strong debate on Tuesday
night before being asked a question about immigration policy. He suggested that
illegal immigrants should be evaluated on a case-by-case basis and that some who
have been in the United States for a long time should be allowed to stay, while
others should be deported.

Following the exchange, Mr. Gingrich's stock at Intrade, the political betting
market that we frequently track, declined to about 14 percent from 16 percent,
erasing gains he had made earlier in the day.

It was not the "flash crash" that proceeded Rick Perry's "oops" moment during
the Nov. 9 debate, but my view is that the markets probably overreacted in this
case and that Mr. Gingrich's answer will not be all that harmful to him.

One reason is simply that Mr. Gingrich's views on immigration are not all that
far out of step with those of Republican voters. Although I can't find a survey
that catalogs Republican responses to Mr. Gingrich's proposal exactly, a New
York Times/CBS News poll from May 2010 on a broad range of immigration-related
issues provides some evidence about an analogous proposal.

In that survey, voters were given a choice of three options for handling illegal
immigrants who currently hold jobs in the United States:

Which comes closest to your view about illegal immigrants who are currently
working in the U.S.? They should be allowed to stay in their jobs and to
eventually apply for U.S. citizenship. OR, They should be allowed to stay in
their jobs only as guest workers, but not to apply for U.S. citizenship. OR,
They should be required to leave their jobs and leave the U.S.

Among Republican respondents to the survey, 42 percent said the immigrants
should be required to leave. But 31 percent said they should be able to stay and
apply for citizenship. An additional 23 percent picked the middle option: the
immigrants should be allowed to stay, but as guest workers rather than citizens.

One lesson from this is that no stance on immigration will make everyone happy.
The partisan divides on immigration policy are not as stark as they are on
issues like the welfare state. But the  disagreement can be pretty bad, as
George W. Bush discovered when he tried to push a moderate bill on immigration.

Still, Mr. Gingrich's position -- which would allow some illegal immigrants to
stay but not grant them citizenship -- seems to come as close as anything to a
middle ground. Yes, he might be a little further away from that middle ground in
Iowa and South Carolina and candidates like Michele Bachmann are smart to search
for any way to exploit that. But Republican views on immigration are not
monolithic and should not be portrayed as such.

The other thing is that Mr. Gingrich defended his answer pretty well during the
debate, managing to place it within the tradition of Ronald Reagan conservatism.
(In a 1984 debate with Walter Mondale, Reagan said he believed in "amnesty for
those who have put down roots and lived here, even though sometime back they may
have entered illegally.")

I suspect that commentators take too literal-minded an approach when predicting
how a candidate's position on the issues will play with primary voters. Yes,
there are a few issues like abortion that are threshold tests in a Republican
primary, but others like immigration are more complex. Voters may tolerate a
fairly wide range of responses provided that the candidate's head and heart seem
to be in the right place. Alternatively, issues that do not seem all that
salient may become much more so if the candidate cannot explain them adequately
or if his position seems insincere.

One thing that Mr. Gingrich has going for him is that conservatives feel that
both his head and his heart are indeed in the right place. The heart part is
easy: after the time he spent as speaker of the House feuding with President
Clinton on the welfare state and most everything else, there are few doubts
about his conservative team spirit. By contrast, many influential Republican
commentators say point-blank that Mitt Romney is not a real conservative at
heart and is instead a Northeastern (i.e. moderate) Republican. One significant
piece of evidence for this, of course, is that Mr. Romney's only elected office
was the governor of Massachusetts, and that he took generally moderate positions
there.

Mr. Perry has also had some issues in this department. But some of this is
because he was relatively new to the national scene -- his name recognition was
perhaps 40 or 50 percent before he decided to run for president, whereas Mr.
Gingrich's was in the 80s. That means that voters are weighing each new piece of
information about Mr. Perry -- each potential transgression against conservatism
-- fairly carefully. But it would take a lot to tip the scales for a candidate
who has been around as long as Mr. Gingrich.

As far as the "head" part goes: both Mr. Romney and Mr. Gingrich are capable of
delivering some exceptionally thoughtful policy responses. But the perception
about Mr. Romney is sometimes that the calculation he is engaging in is about
how to calibrate his response to voters optimally -- and not necessarily about
what he thinks is the right policy idea deep down. At some of his worst moments
in the debates, Mr. Romney has even seemed to give the impression that he is
making these calculations explicitly.

Mr. Gingrich's responses, on the other hand -- although sometimes equivocal and
grandiloquent -- seem to be wrestling with a different question: what is the
"right" response based on his understanding of conservative principles. Mr.
Gingrich is a 1980s-era conservative so sometimes these responses may seem out
of step with the Tea Party version. But basically, he seems to be in a perpetual
struggle to answer the question of "What Would Reagan Do?". Any response that
appears to emerge out of that particular thought process -- particularly if the
candidate makes sure to name-check Reagan -- will probably be defensible at a
minimum to today's conservative voters.

In some fundamental sense, the nomination battle so far has been about
Republicans trying to decide whether they trust that Mr. Romney is a
conservative at heart -- and if not, whether they might be willing to nominate
him anyway. Given Mr. Romney's decent but stagnant position in the polls,
neither of these issues seem to have been resolved one way or the other yet.

Some of this, probably, boils down to style rather than substance. If Mr. Romney
is often unflappable during debates, he can also come across as overly polished
and overly slick -- a quality that some voters instinctively associate with
untrustworthiness when they see it in a politician.

Mr. Gingrich, on the other hand, has a lot of warts -- and he tries to get
voters to accept him warts and all. Lately, this strategy seems to be working.
Although Mr. Gingrich still has major obstacles to the nomination, I would not
expect that his immigration views will be foremost among them.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              114 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            November 28, 2011 Monday

The Immigrant Fitness Test

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 479 words



HIGHLIGHT: Newt Gingrich has fleshed out his legal residency plan for long-time
illegal immigrants. And it doesn't look good.


Last week, the editorial board praised Newt Gingrich for breaking from the
Republican pack and supporting a path to legal residency for long-time illegal
immigrants. Now Mr. Gingrich is starting to flesh out that idea-since he has
revived his standing on the right wing of the party and appears to think he's
got a shot at the nomination-but it turns out to be much less thoughtful and
generous than it appeared during the debate.

On his campaign web site, Mr. Gingrich proposes that every community set up
"citizens review" committees, apparently similar to the old draft boards (or
perhaps more sinister bodies from the history of less democratic countires).
These boards would assess the fitness of immigrants to stay in the United
States. To pass the test, immigrants would have to pass a criminal background
check and demonstrate that they could support themselves through employment,
without relying on entitlement programs like Social Security or Medicare.

Illegal immigrants, of course, aren't eligible for either of those programs, but
they can get emergency health care through Medicaid, including care for their
legal children born in the United States. Anyone caught doing so, under Mr.
Gingrich's plan, would be deported.

And it gets worse: immigrants would also have to prove they can independently
pay for private health insurance. They must demonstrate proficiency in English,
and would have to pay a fine of $5,000 if the citizens board lets them stay.

As Mr. Gingrich undoubtedly knows, only about 40 percent of illegal immigrants
now have private health insurance, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. The
rest would presumably be kicked out. And any immigrant lucky enough to have a
job that includes health coverage would live in mortal fear of losing it.

The thousands of citizen boards would follow national standards laid out by
Congress, in the proposal, but the reality would be that they would follow
regional sentiments about immigrants. Does anyone doubt that the boards in
states like Alabama, Arizona and South Carolina, which have established laws
specifically designed to make life miserable for immigrants, would look for any
excuse to rule an immigrant ineligible to stay? "We're sorry to tell you your
English doesn't meet our standards, so pack up. Next!" (And if those same
standards were applied to the legal population, including citizens, the country
would be vastly smaller.)

On paper, at least, the plan is marginally better than that of Mitt Romney or
most of the other candidates, who claim (absurdly, of course) that they would
kick out all illegal immigrants. But anyone who thought Mr. Gingrich was being
big-hearted should take a look at the details.


     ·    Gingrich Says the Right Thing! Film at 11
     ·    Opinion Report: Alabama's Immigration Law
     ·    D.H.S. Responds on Deportation
     ·    Will They Stay or Will They Go?
     ·    Opinion Report: Civil Rights in Alabama


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              115 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           November 29, 2011 Tuesday

Perry Wins Endorsement of Sheriff Joe Arpaio

BYLINE: RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 729 words



HIGHLIGHT: In New Hampshire, the presidential candidate said he would back a
federal law "to detain and to deport every illegal alien that we apprehend."


12:18 p.m. | Updated   AMHERST, N.H. -- Gov. Rick Perry of Texas on Tuesday said
he would back a federal policy "to detain and to deport every illegal alien that
we apprehend."

Mr. Perry, in his most expansive comments about illegal immigration since last
week's Republican presidential debate, was not suggesting any rounding up of
illegal immigrants,  an aide later made clear, but calling for all people
arrested or detained -- and later found to be undocumented -- to be expelled
from the country after an expedited hearing.

The candidate sought to draw a contrast with the Obama administration, which he
criticized as having a "catch-and-release" policy that allows some nonviolent
illegal immigrants to be released back into the general public.

It's a "horrific policy," Mr. Perry said.

Backers of the policy say it allows officials to focus resources on deporting
illegal immigrants who have been convicted of serious crimes or who  are a
threat to the public safety or the national interest.

With a little more than a month to go before the New Hampshire primary, the
Texas governor is trying to shore up his credentials on immigration: On Tuesday
he won an endorsement from one of the nation's most outspoken and controversial
public officials on that issue: Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz.,
who unabashedly calls himself the "toughest sheriff" in the country.

Appearing at Joey's Diner here, in the southern end of the state, Mr. Arpaio,
who had also been courted by Representative Michele Bachmann and Herman Cain,
praised what he called Mr. Perry's efforts to interdict illegal crossings by
sending Texas Rangers and other state law enforcement to the Texas border with
Mexico.

"He doesn't just talk about it; he does something about it," Mr. Arpaio said.

Mr. Perry was widely criticized within his own party for backing a state plan
that gives some children of illegal immigrants the same lower-cost  in-state
college tuition that is enjoyed by American citizens who attend the state's
public universities and who have been Texas residents at least three years.

At one point he suggested that those who opposed his position were heartless. On
Tuesday he repeated his apology for that comment, calling it "very
inappropriate," his latest effort to try to win back some  Republican primary
voters who abandoned him as  rivals sought to paint him as too soft on illegal
immigration.

But it remains to be seen how much an endorsement from Sheriff Arpaio will help
him in this state, where Mr. Perry is polling far behind the leader, Mitt
Romney. According to one recent poll, immigration was cited by only 4 percent of
likely Republican voters as the most important issue.

Mr. Arpaio is also a polarizing figure. Last year, the Justice Department filed
a lawsuit against the sheriff for not cooperating with an investigation into
whether the Maricopa County Sheriff's Department is systematically violating the
rights of Hispanics. It was the first time in a generation, according to
officials, that the federal government has filed suit to force a law enforcement
agency to cooperate with such an investigation.

The sheriff has called the Justice Department's action an attempt to intimidate
him and he has said he does not engage in racial profiling. Mr. Arpaio, who
gained wide notice for forcing inmates to wear pink underwear and housing them
in tents, is popular in his state, where he has repeatedly won re-election by a
sizable margin.

Even so, there are signs that the state's aggressive immigration policies have
begun to turn off some: Earlier this month a longtime Arpaio ally, Arizona State
Sen. Russell Pearce, was defeated in a recall election by a more moderate
Republican. Mr. Pearce had pushed through a controversial law last year that
would have turned police officers throughout the state into de facto immigration
agents.

The Justice Department is fighting the law, which has not taken effect yet. On
Tuesday, Mr. Perry signaled that he would not support the continuation of that
lawsuit if he were elected president, saying that the federal government should
not "be suing states for making decisions that they think" are in the best
interests of their citizens.


     ·    Thune Endorses Romney
     ·    A Little Soul-Searching in Iowa
     ·    Perry Ad Seems to Take Aim at Republican Rivals
     ·    Caucus Video: Moving Beyond the 'Oops' Moment
     ·    Perry, in Iowa, Focuses on Immigration


LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              116 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday

Gingrich's Immigration Plan Could Benefit Millions, Study Finds

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 542 words



HIGHLIGHT: As many as 3.5 million illegal immigrants could attain some form of
legal status, according to a review of census data, if Newt Gingrich's idea
becomes reality.


      How many illegal immigrants could gain legal status under an idea proposed
by Newt Gingrich?  Perhaps as many as 3.5 million, according to figures
published Thursday by the Pew Hispanic Center in Washington.

Mr. Gingrich set himself apart from his leading rivals for the Republican
presidential nomination last week by saying that he would open a path to legal
status for illegal immigrants who had been in the country for many years, had
strong family ties here -- children and maybe grandchildren -- and no criminal
record. The Pew Center took up the challenge of calculating how many illegal
immigrants might meet Mr. Gingrich's standards.

About 35 percent of the estimated 10 million illegal immigrants in the United
States who are adults have been here for 15 years or more, the center found,
based on an analysis of 2010 census data. Almost two-thirds of adult illegal
immigrant  have been here for a decade or more, the center reported.

About 46 percent of adult illegal immigrants - some 4.7 million people - are
parents of minor children, the center found. The number of illegal immigrants
raising children is relatively high because they tend to be considerably younger
than native-born Americans. (The median age of Americans is 46, while that of
illegal immigrants is 36, the Pew Center found.)

Among the children of illegal immigrant parents, about 1 million are themselves
here without legal documents, and about 4.5 million of the children are United
States citizens, according to the report.

The Pew figures do not correspond exactly to what Mr. Gingrich suggested he
would support. In a Republican debate last week, Mr. Gingrich said, "If  you've
been here for 25 years, and you got three kids and two grandkids, you've been
paying taxes and obeying the law, you belong to a local church, I don't think we
are going to separate you from your family, uproot you forcefully and kick you
out."

Pew researchers did not estimate how many illegal immigrants have been here 25
years because a reliable estimate cannot be derived from available data, said
Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the center. They did take a crack at
church attendance, which is high, at least among Latinos, who are 81 percent of
illegal immigrants. Nearly two-thirds of adult Latino illegal immigrants go to
church several times a month at least, the center reported.

Mr. Gingrich said he would leave it up to local citizen juries to decide which
illegal immigrants would be permitted to stay. Mitt Romney and Michele Bachmann
have assailed the proposal as an open door to amnesty, which is vigorously
opposed by many conservative Republican voters.

Mr. Gingrich raised an issue that is vexing for Republicans who oppose any
legalization. The Pew figures show that the majority of illegal immigrants have
long been settled in this country.

"Relatively few long-duration illegal immigrants have returned to their
countries of origin," the center reported, despite tough crackdowns in several
states and record deportations by the Obama administration. Short of mass
roundups and deportations, which none of the leading Republican candidates have
advocated, it is unclear how they would address the problem.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              117 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Better Lives for Mexicans Cut Allure of Going North

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; IMMIGRATION UPENDED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3638 words


AGUA NEGRA, Mexico -- The extraordinary Mexican migration that delivered
millions of illegal immigrants to the United States over the past 30 years has
sputtered to a trickle, and research points to a surprising cause: unheralded
changes in Mexico that have made staying home more attractive.

A growing body of evidence suggests that a mix of developments -- expanding
economic and educational opportunities, rising border crime and shrinking
families -- are suppressing illegal traffic as much as economic slowdowns or
immigrant crackdowns in the United States.

Here in the red-earth highlands of Jalisco, one of Mexico's top three states for
emigration over the past century, a new dynamic has emerged. For a typical rural
family like the Orozcos, heading to El Norte without papers is no longer an
inevitable rite of passage. Instead, their homes are filling up with returning
relatives; older brothers who once crossed illegally are awaiting visas; and the
youngest Orozcos are staying put.

''I'm not going to go to the States because I'm more concerned with my
studies,'' said Angel Orozco, 18. Indeed, at the new technological institute
where he is earning a degree in industrial engineering, all the students in a
recent class said that they were better educated than their parents -- and that
they planned to stay in Mexico rather than go to the United States.

Douglas S. Massey, a director of the Mexican Migration Project at Princeton,
which conducts an extensive, long-term survey in Mexican emigration hubs, said
his research showed that interest in heading to the United States for the first
time had fallen to its lowest level since at least the 1950s. ''No one wants to
hear it, but the flow has already stopped,'' Mr. Massey said, referring to
illegal traffic. ''For the first time in 60 years, the net traffic has gone to
zero and is probably a little bit negative.''

The decline in illegal immigration, from a country responsible for roughly 6 of
every 10 illegal immigrants in the United States, is stark. The Mexican census
recently discovered four million more people than had been projected, which
officials attributed to a sharp decline in emigration.

American census figures analyzed by the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic Center also
show that the illegal Mexican population in the United States has shrunk and
that fewer than 100,000 illegal border-crossers and visa-violators from Mexico
settled in the United States in 2010, down from about 525,000 a year from 2000
to 2004. Although some advocates for more limited immigration say that the Pew
estimates that do not include short-term migrants, most experts agree that far
fewer illegal immigrants have been arriving in recent years.

The question is why. Experts and American politicians from both parties have
generally looked inward, arguing about the success or failure of the buildup of
border enforcement and tougher laws limiting illegal immigrants' rights -- like
those recently passed in Alabama and Arizona. Deportations have reached record
highs as total border apprehensions and apprehensions of Mexicans have fallen by
more than 70 percent since 2000.

But Mexican immigration has always been defined by both the push (from Mexico)
and the pull (of the United States). The decision to leave home involves a
comparison, a wrenching cost-benefit analysis, and just as a Mexican baby boom
and economic crises kicked off emigration waves in the 1980s and '90s, research
shows that the easing of demographic and economic pressures is helping keep
departures in check.

In simple terms, Mexican families are smaller than they once were, shrinking the
pool of likely migrants. Despite the dominance of the Roman Catholic Church in
Mexico, birth control efforts have pushed down the fertility rate to about 2
children per woman from 6.8 in 1970, according to government figures. So while
Mexico added about one million new potential job seekers annually in the 1990s,
since 2007 that figure has fallen to an average of 800,000, according to
government birth records. By 2030, it is expected to drop to 300,000.

Even in larger families like the Orozcos' -- Angel is the 9th of 10 children --
the migration calculation has changed. Crossing ''mojado,'' wet or illegally,
has become more expensive and more dangerous, particularly with drug cartels
dominating the border. At the same time, educational and employment
opportunities have greatly expanded in Mexico. Per capita gross domestic product
and family income have each jumped more than 45 percent since 2000, according to
one prominent economist, Roberto Newell. Despite all the depictions of Mexico as
''nearly a failed state,'' he argued, ''the conventional wisdom is wrong.''

A significant expansion of legal immigration -- aided by American consular
officials -- is also under way. Congress may be debating immigration reform, but
in Mexico, visas without a Congressionally mandated cap on how many people can
enter have increased from 2006 to 2010, compared with the previous five years.

State Department figures show that Mexicans who have become American citizens
have legally brought in 64 percent more immediate relatives, 220,500 from 2006
through 2010, compared with the figures for the previous five years. Tourist
visas are also being granted at higher rates of around 89 percent, up from 67
percent, while American farmers have legally hired 75 percent more temporary
workers since 2006.

Edward McKeon, the top American official for consular affairs in Mexico, said he
had focused on making legal passage to the United States easier in an effort to
prevent people from giving up and going illegally. He has even helped those who
were previously illegal overcome bans on entering the United States.

''If people are trying to do the right thing,'' Mr. McKeon said, ''we need to
send the signal that we'll reward them.''

Hard Years in Jalisco

When Angel Orozco's grandfather considered leaving Mexico in the 1920s, his
family said, he wrestled with one elemental question: Will it be worth it?

At that point and for decades to come, yes was the obvious answer. In the 1920s
and '30s -- when Paul S. Taylor came to Jalisco from California for his landmark
study of Mexican emigration -- Mexico's central highlands promised little more
than hard living. Jobs were scarce and paid poorly. Barely one of three adults
could read. Families of 10, 12 and even 20 were common, and most children did
not attend school.

Comparatively, the United States looked like a dreamland of technology and
riches: Mr. Taylor found that the wages paid by the railroads, where most early
migrants found legal work, were five times what could be earned on farms in
Arandas, the municipality that includes Agua Negra.

Orozco family members still talk about the benefits of that first trip. Part of
the land the extended family occupies today was purchased with American earnings
from the 1920s. When Angel's father, Antonio, went north to pick cotton in the
1950s and '60s with the Bracero temporary worker program, which accepted more
than 400,000 laborers a year at its peak, working in the United States made even
more sense. The difference in wages had reached 10 to 1. Arandas was still dirt
poor.

Antonio, with just a few years of schooling, was one of many who felt that with
a back as strong as a wooden church door, he could best serve his family from
across the border.

''I sent my father money so he could build his house,'' Antonio said.

Legal status then meant little. After the Bracero program ended in 1964, Antonio
said, he crossed back and forth several times without documentation. Passage was
cheap. Work lasting for a few months or a year was always plentiful. So when his
seven sons started to become adults in the 1990s, he encouraged them to go
north. Around 2001, he and two of his sons were all in the United States working
-- part of what is now recognized as one of the largest immigration waves in
American history.

But even then, illegal immigration was becoming less attractive. In the
mid-1990s, the Clinton administration added fences and federal agents to what
were then the main crossing corridors beyond Tijuana and Ciudad Juarez. The
enforcement push, continued by President George W. Bush and President Obama,
helped drive up smuggling prices from around $700 in the late 1980s to nearly
$2,000 a decade later, and the costs continued to climb, according to research
from the Center for Comparative Immigration Studies at the University of
California, San Diego. It also shifted traffic to more dangerous desert areas
near Arizona.

Antonio said the risks hit home when his nephew Alejandro disappeared in the
Sonoran Desert around 2002. A father of one and with a pregnant wife, Alejandro
had been promised work by a friend. It took years for the authorities to find
his body in the arid brush south of Tucson. Even now, no one knows how he died.

But for the Orozcos, border enforcement was not the major deterrent. Andres
Orozco, 28, a middle son who first crossed illegally in 2000, said that while
rising smuggling costs and border crime were worries, there were always ways to
avoid border agents. In fact, while the likelihood of apprehension has increased
in recent years, 92 to 98 percent of those who try to cross eventually succeed,
according to Wayne A. Cornelius and his colleagues at the University of
California, San Diego.

A Period of Progress

Another important factor is Mexico itself. Over the past 15 years, this country
once defined by poverty and beaches has progressed politically and economically
in ways rarely acknowledged by Americans debating immigration. Even far from the
coasts or the manufacturing sector at the border, democracy is better
established, incomes have generally risen and poverty has declined.

Here in Jalisco, a tequila boom that accelerated through the 1990s created new
jobs for farmers cutting agave and for engineers at the stills. Other businesses
followed. In 2003, when David Fitzgerald, a migration expert at the University
of California, San Diego, came to Arandas, he found that the wage disparity with
the United States had narrowed: migrants in the north were collecting 3.7 times
what they could earn at home.

That gap has recently shrunk again. The recession cut into immigrant earnings in
the United States, according to the Pew Hispanic Center, even as wages have
risen in Mexico, according to World Bank figures. Jalisco's quality of life has
improved in other ways, too. About a decade ago, the cluster of the Orozco
ranches on Agua Negra's outskirts received electricity and running water. New
census data shows a broad expansion of such services: water and trash
collection, once unheard of outside cities, are now available to more than 90
percent of Jalisco's homes. Dirt floors can now be found in only 3 percent of
the state's houses, down from 12 percent in 1990.

Still, education represents the most meaningful change. The census shows that
throughout Jalisco, the number of senior high schools or preparatory schools for
students aged 15 to 18 increased to 724 in 2009, from 360 in 2000, far outpacing
population growth. The Technological Institute of Arandas, where Angel studies
engineering, is now one of 13 science campuses created in Jalisco since 2000 --
a major reason professionals in the state, with a bachelor's degree or higher,
also more than doubled to 821,983 in 2010, up from 405,415 in 2000.

Similar changes have occurred elsewhere. In the poor southern states of Chiapas
and Oaxaca, for instance, professional degree holders rose to 525,874 from
244,322 in 2000.

And the data from secondary schools like the one the Orozcos attended in Agua
Negra suggests that the trend will continue. Thanks to a Mexican government
program called ''schools of quality'' the campus of three buildings painted
sunflower yellow has five new computers for its 71 students, along with new
books.

Teachers here, in classrooms surrounded by blue agave fields, say that
enrollment is down slightly because families are having fewer children, and
instead of sending workers north, some families have moved to other Mexican
cities -- a trend also found in academic field research. Around half the
students now move on to higher schooling, up from 30 percent a decade ago.

''They're identifying more with Mexico,'' said Agustin Martinez Gonzalez, a
teacher. ''With more education, they're more likely to accept reality here and
try to make it better.''

Some experts agree. Though Mexicans with Ph.D.'s tend to leave for bigger
paychecks abroad, ''if you have a college degree you're much more likely to stay
in Mexico because that is surely more valuable in Mexico,'' said Jeffrey S.
Passel, a demographer at the Pew Hispanic Center.

If these trends -- particularly Mexican economic growth -- continue over the
next decade, Mr. Passel said, changes in the migration dynamic may become even
clearer. ''At the point where the U.S. needs the workers again,'' he said,
''there will be fewer of them.''

The United States, of course, has not lost its magnetic appeal. Illegal traffic
from Central America has not dropped as fast as it has from Mexico, and even in
Jalisco town plazas are now hangouts for men in their 30s with tattoos, oversize
baseball caps and a desire to work again in California or another state. Bars
with American names -- several have adopted Shrek -- signal a back and forth
that may never disappear.

But more Mexicans are now traveling legally. Several Orozco cousins have
received temporary worker visas in the past few years. In March, peak migration
season for Jalisco, there were 15 people from Agua Negra at the border waiting
to cross.

''And 10 had visas,'' said Ramon Orozco, 30, another son of Antonio who works in
the town's government office after being the first in his family to go to
college. ''A few years ago there would have been 100, barely any with proper
documents.''

This is not unique to Agua Negra. A few towns away at the hillside shrine of St.
Toribio, the patron saint of migrants, prayers no longer focus on asking God to
help sons, husbands or brothers crossing the desert. ''Now people are praying
for papers,'' said Maria Guadalupe, 47, a longtime volunteer.

How did this happen?

Partly, emigrants say, illegal life in the United States became harder. Laws
restricting the rights of illegal immigrants or making it tougher for employers
to hire them have passed in more than a dozen states since 2006. The same
word-of-mouth networks that used to draw people north are now advising against
the journey. ''Without papers all you're thinking about is, when are the police
going to stop you or what other risks are you going to face,'' said Andres
Orozco.

Andres, a horse lover who drives a teal pickup from Texas, is one of many
Orozcos now pinning their hopes on a visa. And for the first time in years, the
chances have improved.

Mexican government estimates based on survey data show not just a decrease in
migration overall, but also an increase in border crossings with documents. In
2009, the most recent year for which data is available, 38 percent of the total
attempted crossings, legal and illegal, were made with documents. In 2007, only
20 percent involved such paperwork.

The Mexican data counts attempted crossings, not people, and does not
differentiate between categories of visas. Nor does it mention how long people
stayed, nor whether all the documents were valid.

Advocates of limited immigration worry that the issuing of more visas creates a
loophole that can be abused. Between 40 and 50 percent of the illegal immigrants
in the United States entered legally with visas they overstayed, as of 2005,
according to the Pew Hispanic Center.

More recent American population data, however, shows no overall increase in the
illegal Mexican population. That suggests that most of the temporary visas
issued to Mexicans -- 1.1 million in 2010 -- are being used legitimately even as
American statistics show clearly that visa opportunities have increased.

Easing a Chaotic Process

One man, Mr. McKeon, the minister counselor who oversees all consular affairs in
Mexico, has played a significant role in that expansion.

A lawyer with a white beard and a quick tongue, Mr. McKeon arrived in the summer
of 2007. And after more than 30 years working in consular affairs in China,
Japan and elsewhere, he quickly decided to make changes in Mexico. Working
within administrative rules, State Department officials say, he re-engineered
the visa program to de-emphasize the affordability standard that held that visas
were to be denied to those who could not prove an income large enough to support
travel to the United States.

In a country where a person can cross the border with a 25-cent toll, Mr. McKeon
said, the income question was irrelevant. ''You have to look at everyone
individually,'' he said in an interview at his office in Mexico City. ''I don't
want people to say, here's the income floor, over yes, lower no.''

This led to an almost immediate decrease in the rejection rate for tourist
visas. Before he arrived, around 32 percent were turned down. Since 2008, the
rate has been around 11 percent.

Mr. McKeon -- praised by some immigration lawyers for bringing consistency to a
chaotic process -- was also instrumental in expanding the temporary visa program
for agricultural workers. Called H-2A, this is one of the few visa categories
without a cap.

Around 2006, as the debate over immigration became more contentious, employers
concentrated in the Southeast began applying for more workers through the
program. Mr. McKeon began hosting conferences with all the stakeholders and
deployed new technology and additional staff members. The waiting time for
several visa categories decreased, government reports show. For H-2As, Mexican
workers can now receive their documents the same day that they apply.

Mr. McKeon also pushed to make the program more attractive to Mexicans who might
otherwise cross the border illegally. Two years ago, he eliminated a $100 visa
issuance fee that was supposed to be covered by employers but was usually paid
by workers. And he insisted that his staff members change their approach with
Mexicans who had previously worked illegally in the United States.

''The message used to be, if you were working illegally, lie about it or don't
even try to go legally because we won't let you,'' said one senior State
Department official. ''What we're saying now is, tell us you did it illegally,
be honest and we'll help you.''

Specifically, consulate workers dealing with H-2A applicants who were once
illegal -- making them subject to 3- or 10-year bans depending on the length of
their illegal stay -- now regularly file electronic waiver applications to the
United States Customs and Border Patrol. About 85 percent of these are now
approved, Mr. McKeon said, so that in 2010 most of the 52,317 Mexican workers
with H-2A visas had previously been in the United States illegally.

''It's not easy to go through this process,'' Mr. McKeon said, ''and I think
people who are willing to go through all of that and risk going back to the
United States where they have to pay taxes, and withholding, I think we should
look favorably on them.''

Speaking as the son of a New Jersey plumber, he added: ''My bias is toward
people who sweat at work because I really think that's the backbone of our
country. With limited resources, I'd rather devote our efforts to keeping out a
drug kingpin than trying to find someone who works a couple of months at Cousin
Hector's body shop.''

A Divisive Topic

In the heated debate over immigration, however, this topic is inevitably
divisive. Pro-immigrant groups, when told of the expansion to legal immigration,
say it still may not be enough in a country where the baby boomers are retiring
in droves.

Farmers still complain that the H-2A visa program is too complicated and
addresses only a portion of the total demand. As of 2010, there were 1,381,896
Mexicans still waiting for their green-card applications to be accepted or
rejected. And the United States currently makes only 5,000 green cards annually
available worldwide for low-wage workers to immigrate permanently; in recent
years, only a few of those have gone to Mexicans.

On the other side, Steven A. Camarota, a demographer at the Center for
Immigration Studies in Washington, which favors reduced immigration, said that
increasing the proportion of legal entries did little good.

''If you believe there is significant job competition at the bottom end of the
labor market, as I do, you're not fixing the problem,'' Mr. Camarota said. ''If
you are concerned about the fiscal cost of unskilled immigration and everyone
comes in on temporary visas and overstays, or even if they don't, the same
problems are likely to apply.''

By his calculations, unskilled immigrants like the Orozcos have, over the years,
helped push down hourly wages, especially for young, unskilled American workers.
Immigrants are also more likely to rely on welfare, he said, adding to public
costs.

The Orozco clan, however, may point to a different future. Angel Orozco, like
many other young Mexicans, now talks about the United States not as a place to
earn money, but rather as a destination for fun and spending.

Today he is just a shy freshman wearing a Daughtry T-shirt and living in a
two-room apartment with only a Mexican flag and a rosary for decoration.

But his dreams are big and local. After graduating, he said, he hopes to work
for a manufacturing company in Arandas, which seems likely because the director
of his school says that nearly 90 percent of graduates find jobs in their field.
Then, Angel said, he will be able to buy what he really wants: a shiny, new red
Camaro.

Immigration Upended: Articles in this series will explore the changing patterns
of immigration between the United States and Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A DIFFERENT PATH: Although his father and brothers crossed the
border for work, Angel Orozco plans to stay in Mexico.
AN OLD RITE OF PASSAGE: Antonio Orozco, center, with two of his sons, Andres,
left, and Samuel, supported his family for decades with jobs he found across the
border in the United States despite lacking the proper documents. (A8)
JOBS AT HOME: In the state of Jalisco and nearby, jobs for farmers cutting agave
and other kinds of work began to increase wages in Mexico in the 1990s, making
illegal immigration less attractive.
A SIGN OF PROGRESS: Young Mexicans in Agua Negra have new educational
opportunities. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9) CHARTS: A
Decline in Illegal Immigration From Mexico: Most experts agree that far fewer
illegal immigrants have been arriving from Mexico in recent years. Economic,
demographic and social changes in Mexico point to a new cost-benefit analysis
for those who may have risked crossing illegally in the past, with many now
choosing to stay home instead. (Sources: Mexican Migration Project, Princeton
University (illegal migration estimate)
INEGI (fertility rate)
U.S. State Department (number of visas)
Mexican Migration Project, Princeton University (cost of a trip across the
border)) (A8)
 MAPS: In recent years, the quality of life has improved in places like Agua
Negra. (A9)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 10, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

I, Illegal Immigrant

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 580 words


In his article about his life in America as an undocumented immigrant, Jose
Antonio Vargas addressed an issue that should upset us all. I knew Jose when I
was his speech coach at Mountain View High School. I didn't know he was illegal
but rather knew him as one of the hardest-working members of the team. I
remember working with him to more clearly enunciate in a highly competitive
endeavor. He was driven, and he was successful. Yes, he has broken our laws. So
have many on Wall Street, who simply paid money, got a slap on the hand and went
on to make a lot more money. Jose is a hero /-- my hero. He worked to be the
best he could be, asking nothing of our country beyond the right to stay where
his mother sent him as a young boy. He is another example of why we need to pass
the Dream Act.

RICHARD HAAS, Sunnyvale, Calif.

I was duped. I once hired an illegal immigrant to be a reporter for The
Chronicle. . . . Jose lied to me and everyone else he worked for. . . . The
force of his story /-- good reaction and bad /-- and his project just might
lubricate the politically tarred-up wheels of government and help create sane
immigration policy. If it has that effect, we should forgive him his lies.

PHIL BRONSTEIN, Editor at Large, The San Francisco Chronicle, 10:43 p.m., June
22, sfgate.com

The first part of Vargas's story -- a kid living in and loving America for years
before his shocking discovery that he has been made complicit in a crime -- does
indeed elicit sympathy. It's stories like these that make me open, at least in
principle, to something like a narrowly tailored version of the Dream Act. But
the second part of his story, in which a fear- and shame-driven Vargas, with the
aid of his family, perpetuated and compounded those crimes (Vargas eventually
got around to what you might redundantly call fraudulent tax fraud, repeatedly
reporting himself as a citizen rather than a ''permanent resident,'' when in
fact he was neither), elicits from me nothing like the outpouring of support
Vargas is already enjoying on the left.

DANIEL FOSTER, 1:26 p.m., June 22, nationalreview.com

As in the Arab-Israeli dispute, there is a broad consensus among policy makers
on the outlines of what should be done: we should provide some path to
legitimate citizenship for the millions of people like Vargas who are here
illegally but who contribute every day to our communities. We should tighten
employer sanctions and law enforcement. Unfortunately, as in the Arab-Israeli
dispute, knowledge of the general destination is not always sufficient to
navigate large obstacles along the way.

HAROLD POLLACK, 4:52 p.m., June 23, TNR.com

You have to have rules. Rules are good. But all rules have exceptions. Vargas's
story is the tip of an iceberg of unrecognized talent among children of illegal
immigrants who are educated, bright, useful members of American society and
should be accepted as American citizens.

CAROLYN WELCH, Indianapolis

This is a compelling article. Unfortunately, 16 million unemployed Americans
have compelling stories. Illegal immigrants do not by dint of rule of law have
the right to stay in the country, work, vote or serve as an endless bridge for
more illegals. Human interest makes for compassion and not policy. It's time to
look at this issue through the prism of the poorest of Americans, whose stories
of competition with illegals is the saddest and most underreported story in
journalism.

NEIL ROBERT, New Haven, Conn., 11:57 a.m., June 22, nytimes.com

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: ''Telling that some have expressed a desire to throw Jose
Antonio Vargas 'back over the border.' What border do we share with the
Philippines?'' @soalexgoes, 4:15 p.m., June 22, Twitter
 ANALYTICS: The most tweeted magazine articles over the past six weeks.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Immigrants Captured After Boat Capsizes

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 133 words


More than a dozen people suspected of being illegal immigrants were captured
Tuesday near Newport Beach, Calif., after a smuggling boat capsized in rough
surf. The boat was spotted landing at Crystal Cove State Park in Orange County
at 5 a.m. Tuesday, said a federal immigration spokeswoman, Virginia Kice. The
boat capsized, but all 15 people aboard made it to the beach. Ms. Kice said
federal agents captured 14 while one other escaped. The capture followed the
weekend rescue of 15 people suspected of being illegal immigrants stranded on
Santa Cruz Island in the Channel Islands northwest of Los Angeles. Ten others
were detained in the Malibu area last month. The authorities say smugglers have
been turning to sea routes from Mexico into the United States because of
increased vigilance on land.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 20, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Officials, Fed Up With U.S. Efforts, Seek Donations to Build Border
Fence

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 628 words


PHOENIX -- Americans upset about illegal immigration have a new outlet for their
rage: a fund set up by the State of Arizona that will use private donations to
build a border wall.

Critics call the state's effort to build its own border barriers a foolhardy,
feel-good campaign that will have little practical effect on illegal border
crossings. But organizers in the State Legislature, which created the fund, say
it will allow everyday people fed up with the inability of Congress to address
the problem of illegal immigration to contribute personally to a solution.

Beginning during the second Bush administration and continuing in President
Obama's tenure, the federal government has built more than 600 miles of
barriers, some designed to keep out cars and others to block individuals from
crossing. The congressionally approved construction effort is winding up, but
about 82 miles of Arizona's 388 miles of border remain without a barrier,
federal officials say.

The construction has been expensive. The Government Accountability Office said
in a 2009 report that the federal government spent $1 million to $3 million for
every mile of border fencing. Arizona, though, intends to use low-cost inmate
labor to reduce those costs.

The most likely locations for the state's planned barriers are on state or
private land, organizers say. A committee will determine the details of the
wall's construction after money comes in, according to the legislation creating
the border fund, which Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, signed in April 2010.

Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, expressed doubts about the
effectiveness of physical barriers at the border when she was Arizona's governor
and Congress first endorsed the idea in 2005. ''You show me a 50-foot wall and
I'll show you a 51-foot ladder at the border,'' Ms. Napolitano said at the time.
''That's the way the border works.''

She has subsequently argued that the border fencing is only a part of the
solution and must be supplemented by Border Patrol agents and technology. The
Obama administration has significantly increased staffing at the Border Patrol
and has employed unmanned drones to patrol from above. But the administration
last year halted work on a ''virtual fence'' along the border after a series of
technical problems and cost overruns.

Even before Wednesday's formal start of Arizona's fund-raising Web site,
organizers said they detected considerable interest.

''We are getting e-mails, calls and letters from all over the country,'' said
State Senator Steve Smith, a Republican who came up with the idea. ''We had a
business owner from California and individuals from Indiana. People want to do
their part to help this country.''

Donors will get a certificate acknowledging their contribution, and Mr. Smith
said he expected them to become popular items.

But not for everybody. ''This state-sponsored border wall idea is ludicrous,''
said Sandy Bahr, director of the Grand Canyon Chapter of the Sierra Club. ''It
is just another distraction from the real issues facing Arizona, issues this
Legislature has repeatedly failed to address.''

Arizona has had some success with private fund-raising on the contentious issue
of immigration. Ms. Brewer opened a fund to finance the state's defense in
federal court of the immigration crackdown known as Senate Bill 1070, which was
approved in 2010 but never fully went into effect. Private donors have already
contributed about $3.8 million to that effort, state officials say.

But the goal of the border wall fund, $50 million, will require considerably
more largess.

''People were willing to give millions to pay for lawyers,'' Mr. Smith said of
the legal defense fund. ''This is a tangible, legitimate structure people can
see, taste and feel.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Scrutiny at the Border, Even for Immigrants In the Southbound Lane

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1104 words


NOGALES, Ariz. -- An American immigration agent bounded up the steps of a bus
about to cross the United States-Mexico border recently and demanded to see the
papers of all those aboard. ''Papers!'' he shouted, eyeing passengers warily as
he walked up and down the aisle.

Such checks are not surprising given all the attention focused on illegal
immigration these days. But this bus full of migrants was leaving the United
States, not entering it.

A raft of immigration laws in Arizona and other states is designed to make life
so difficult for illegal immigrants that they pack their bags and head home. But
the reality on the border is that departing the country has become more
complicated than ever -- leading some people to worry that the outbound checks
could not only dissuade illegal immigrants from leaving the country but also
place them in a kind of no-win limbo, reviled if they stay and potentially
arrested if they try to leave.

It used to be that entering Mexico, whether it was from San Diego or El Paso or
here in Nogales, was a cakewalk, with no scrutiny on the United States side of
the border and next to none on the Mexico side. But efforts by the Obama
administration to reduce the flow of guns and drug money heading from the United
States to Mexico have changed that in recent years.

Agents now regularly hop aboard southbound buses, a common way for migrants to
return to their towns and villages. At permanent checkpoints set up at border
crossings, they also stop southbound vehicles and confront pedestrians going
south on foot.

In questioning people leaving the country about illegal contraband, agents
frequently find migrants who are not engaged in smuggling but do not have
permission to be in the United States. Some with clean records are let go.
Others are fingerprinted and photographed for illegal entry and only then
allowed to go on their way. Once they are in the government's database, they
face more stringent penalties if they are caught in the United States again.

Immigrants who are found to have criminal records face more aggressive
treatment. They are likely to be arrested and then formally deported.

The intent, officials say, is not to discourage illegal immigrants from leaving.
Rather, it is to stem the flow of contraband. In a recent weekly report from
Arizona, Customs and Border Protection said it had seized $22,102 in cash being
smuggled out of the state from July 18 to July 24. During the same period, six
weapons and 5,943 rounds of ammunition were recovered. Agents detained 1,606
illegal immigrants, although that included those who were both coming and going.

In interviews, departing immigrants offered a variety of reasons for leaving
Arizona. Tough laws and law enforcement sweeps made life less livable. The
economic downturn made it tougher to make ends meet. Then there was also a host
of personal concerns. For Analleli Rios Ramirez, 24, it was the death of her
brother-in-law in Cuernavaca that prompted her and her husband to decide to live
closer to relatives.

''We just decided we wanted to live in our own country,'' said Ms. Rios, who was
the assistant manager of a pretzel shop in a mall near Phoenix.

Some question the sense of checking the papers of migrants who are leaving
anyway. The criticism comes from those who consider illegal immigrants to be
outlaws and those who sympathize with their struggle to improve their lives.

''Why do we want to spend resources apprehending people who are removing
themselves anyway?'' asked Jennifer Allen of the Border Action Network, a human
rights group based in Tucson that aids immigrants in southern Arizona. ''I've
heard of people wanting to leave the country and wondering if they should risk
it. It's in the forefront of people's minds when they're deciding to leave.''

The possibility that a government policy might be discouraging illegal
immigrants from leaving has led even some groups who favor tighter immigration
controls to think twice about the southbound scrutiny.

''This is about the only situation we would ever advocate that our immigration
laws be waived,'' William Gheen, president of Americans for Legal Immigration
PAC, said last year in a statement calling for the Obama administration to ease
its southbound immigration checks. ''We want to encourage the illegals to leave
America on their own, and thus we ask Obama to provide them safe passage out of
America.''

Making it difficult to leave the country, Mr. Gheen said, might prompt some
migrants instead to leave Arizona or other states with tough immigration laws
for more hospitable parts of the United States.

Despite the second guessing, the administration said the policy made sense.

''We're not trying to discourage anyone from leaving, but we do want to send the
message that there are consequences for breaking immigration laws,'' said an
administration official, who was not authorized to speak publicly on the matter.

Although thousands of migrants have been detained heading south, officials said
they could not break down how many were stopped because they were in the country
illegally versus those stopped for smuggling violations.

Some immigrants said they were confused by the policy.

As she prepared to cross the border recently and join her husband who had
crossed months before, Ms. Rios grew anxious, knowing that she did not have her
papers in order and that she might be detained. She had entered the country
illegally more than a decade ago, as an 11-year-old child clutching her mother's
hand. Now she was returning to a country she barely knew.

''I thought this is what Arizona wanted, for me to leave,'' she said as she
packed her things in Chandler, Ariz., before heading south. ''And I have to
worry about them catching me on the way out.''

It turns out that she and her overstuffed pickup truck crossed from Nogales,
Ariz., into Nogales, Mexico, without a hitch.

Immigration officials say they cannot check everyone and use discretion as they
survey the documents of departing migrants. Ms. Rios's mother, Teodora Martinez,
had left months earlier and did not have papers when an agent hopped aboard her
bus. She presented an identification card issued by the Mexican Consulate in
Phoenix, which did not prove legal residency. Her husband, Cesar Valle Martinez,
had shown a fake ID.

The agent raised his eyebrows as he surveyed their papers and then huddled with
a colleague who had also entered the bus. The couple was traveling with several
young children, though, and they had American passports. ''Go on,'' the agent
said finally, handing back the documents, exiting the bus and letting the family
return to Mexico.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Analleli Rios Ramirez, 24, who entered the United States
illegally as a girl and worked in the Phoenix area, packed her pickup truck
recently to return to Mexico to join her husband and son after her
brother-in-law died. As she waited for a permit to cross the border in Nogales,
Ariz., she grew anxious that she might be detained. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 20, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Toward Immigration Sanity: The Obama administration resets its deportation
priorities

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 409 words


The White House has just taken a large step toward a more sensible and lawful
policy on illegal immigration. The administration said that it would stop
deporting illegal immigrants who pose no threat to public safety or national
security so that it can focus on catching and expelling criminals who do.

The new policy ratifies an approach set forth in a recent memo from the director
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, John Morton, on the agency's use of
''prosecutorial discretion.'' The memo suggested that immigration enforcement
officers and lawyers should move more aggressively against drug dealers, gang
members, and other flagrant violators than against illegal immigrants who pose
no danger. That would include people with clean records, those who came to the
United States as children, the elderly, pregnant women, veterans, service
members and those with serious illnesses or disabilities.

The administration is not granting amnesty for any class of immigrants. It will
review thousands of individual deportation cases, one by one, and suspend
deportation proceedings in cases where a person is no threat.

The new approach acknowledges that this country is squandering law-enforcement
resources on deporting tens of thousands of people who work hard, pay taxes and
build families. Misplaced enforcement efforts have also been directed at another
vital resource -- students who arrived in this country as children, graduated
from high school, and want to serve in the military or go to college. (The new
policy should protect many young people who would qualify for legal status under
the long-stalled Dream Act.)

Critics of sensible immigration policy are accusing the administration of a
''back-door amnesty.'' But they are living in a fictional world, believing that
all immigrants are dangerous criminals and that harsher laws and a border fence
will make our immigration problems disappear. With this new policy, the
administration is rejecting inflexible deportation policies that solve nothing.

Though Immigration and Customs Enforcement is moving in the right direction,
many states and local governments are not. Police are still rounding people up
needlessly and legislatures are passing harsh laws to criminalize civil
immigration violations. There is no question that the government needs to
enforce immigration laws vigorously to protect the country from criminals and
others who would do us harm. The new policy promises to do that.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 24, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

License Access In New Mexico Is Heated Issue

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words


SANTA FE, N.M. -- New Mexico is one of just two states, the other being
Washington, that allow in-state residents who are illegal immigrants to get the
same driver's licenses given to citizens, as long as they pass a written test
and successfully show they can turn and stop and park.

But critics, led by the newly elected governor, Susana Martinez, say that the
lenient licensing law attracts illegal immigrants from far and wide who
fraudulently claim they live in New Mexico in order to get identification cards
that allow them to settle into American life.

''We don't have any idea what kind of individuals we are giving these licenses
to,'' Ms. Martinez said in an interview, suggesting that other states may also
be adversely affected by New Mexico's approach.

No issue is more heated in New Mexico these days than that of driver's licenses.
There are street protests and angry debates over the airwaves. Lawyers will soon
be clashing over the question in court.

Meanwhile, to prove her point, Ms. Martinez has been drawing attention to each
new case of fraud.

In May, charges were filed against a man who advertised his services securing
licenses for illegal immigrants in Spanish-language newspapers in New York. The
Border Patrol arrested him in Albuquerque in the company of illegal immigrants
from Ecuador and Colombia, whom he was helping to become licensed drivers in New
Mexico.

In March, another license scam aimed at immigrants from South Asia resulted in
four arrests. That was the sixth fraudulent-license arrest in seven months,
state officials said, with others involving illegal immigrants from China,
Poland, Costa Rica and Brazil.

By issuing licenses to foreigners, a policy adopted in 2003, state officials had
sought to reduce the problem of unlicensed and uninsured drivers on the road and
increase cooperation between immigrants and law enforcement personnel. The
extent to which the policy has worked is in dispute as data show that New Mexico
continues to have one of the largest percentages of uninsured motorists in the
country.

Ms. Martinez, a Republican who campaigned on the licensing issue, tried but
failed in her initial months in office to push an end to the licensing of
illegal immigrants through the Legislature, which is controlled by Democrats.
She says she will try again in September at a special session she has called.

In the meantime, her administration has sent letters to 10,000 citizens of
foreign countries across New Mexico in an effort to gauge the extent of the
fraud problem.

Those who received the letters were told that they must appear at a motor
vehicles office in Albuquerque within 30 days to prove to an auditor that they
actually reside in the state or face cancellation of their licenses.

About a third of the 10,000 letters were returned to the state, which the
governor's office says shows a serious fraud problem. Of the 2,000 or so
face-to-face meetings that have been held, about half the people have been able
to prove they are in-state residents, state officials say.

The governor's office has insisted that the audit was not intended to facilitate
deporting illegal immigrants, but fear still remains high.

''I'm afraid to go,'' said Luz, a mother of three from Mexico who received one
of the letters but has not yet responded. ''Will they deport me once I get
there? Or will I get stopped on the way?''

Even with licenses, illegal immigrants say they must tread carefully in the
state. They are aware of the location of the various federal immigration
checkpoints set up on New Mexican roads and steer well away from them.

After hearing that many who received the letters were afraid to travel to
Albuquerque, the governor's office agreed to schedule meetings as well in Las
Cruces, in the southern part of the state.

Still, the letters have been criticized by immigrant rights groups. ''This
program doesn't prove anything,'' said Marcela Diaz, an activist with Somos Un
Pueblo Unido. ''People move around and change their addresses. We knew that
already. This is just blatantly inconveniencing those who followed the rules.''

On Wednesday, four Democratic legislators and Marisela Morales, a legal
permanent resident who received one of the letters, intend to file suit in state
court accusing the governor's office of acting without legislative authority in
issuing the letters and also of discriminating against people on the basis of
their legal status.

The suit will ask a judge to order Demesia Padilla, who as the governor's
secretary of taxation and revenue oversees the motor vehicles division, to end
the verification program immediately. The legal team behind the suit includes
Vincent Ward, who was chief legal counsel to former Gov. Bill Richardson, who
approved the current licensing policy. David H. Urias, a civil rights lawyer,
and Martha Gomez of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, are
also involved.

New Mexico has traditionally had a welcoming approach toward illegal immigrants,
especially compared with Arizona, its neighbor to the west. But calls for a
tougher approach have been growing, which is reflected by Ms. Martinez's victory
in November as well as the heated nature of the driver's license debate.

Gerald Ortiz y Pino, a Democratic state senator and a plaintiff in the suit,
said there might be a need for tighter controls in licensing, although he
dismissed as exaggerated the talk of terrorists and drug bosses getting
licenses. Mr. Ortiz y Pino said revoking licenses for illegal immigrants would
end up prompting more people to live in the shadows.

''One of the tactics the governor has used is to encourage people to send us
angry, vituperative letters questioning our patriotism and fealty to the U.S.,''
he said. ''That leaves every one very raw.''

Ms. Martinez said that the vast majority of residents were in her corner on
ending the policy and that legislators needed to get that message. ''It's
important to me because it's important to New Mexico,'' she said.

The issue has far less urgency in Washington State, where officials have
tightened residency requirements to cut down on fraud while still allowing
illegal immigrants to receive licenses. Gov. Chris Gregoire, a Democrat, said
she would sign a bill restricting licenses to legal residents if the Legislature
were to pass one.

Utah issues special licenses to people who cannot prove their citizenship. These
licenses are good only for driving but not for other uses, like boarding
airplanes. That dual-license approach has not won support in New Mexico.

As the standoff continues, some of those who can legally drive now but may be in
danger of losing their licenses are contemplating how their lives might change.

''How will I take my children to school?'' asked Luz, who did not want her full
name used given the continuing debate. ''How can I go to Wal-Mart to get
medicine? If you take away our licenses, you take away our lives.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Guadalupe Archuleta directing customers who have brought in
documentation of their residency in response to a letter from the State of New
Mexico. About 10,000 such letters were sent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HOLM FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Meant to Ease Fears of Deportation Program, Federal Hearings Draw Anger

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and SARAH WHEATON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 834 words


A task force set up by the Obama administration to ease political tensions over
a deportation program has held the last of four public hearings, which instead
served largely to galvanize vocal protests against the policy.

Immigrant, labor and church groups walked out halfway through the session
Wednesday in Arlington, Va., banging drums and denouncing the hearing as a
''sham'' intended to gloss over deep problems with the program, known as Secure
Communities.

Immigrant and Latino groups also marched out of hearings this month in Los
Angeles and Chicago, calling for a halt to the program. In Chicago, six illegal
immigrants, all students, were arrested after briefly stopping traffic outside
the hearing. The students were later released. The first hearing, in Dallas,
drew heated debate but less militant protests.

With a series of initiatives since June, the Obama administration has sought to
tighten the focus of its deportation strategy on illegal immigrants who also
have been convicted of crimes, especially serious violent and drug offenses.
Officials say the rapid expansion of Secure Communities to cover the whole
country by 2013 is part of that plan.

At the same time, senior administration officials announced measures last week
to cancel deportation proceedings against many noncitizens who are charged with
immigration violations (which generally are civil offenses), but who had not
committed crimes.

A 21-member Secure Communities task force was established in June by John
Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency running
the program, in response to resistance from states and cities. Mr. Morton
assigned the group to examine narrow issues concerning the program's impact that
had drawn complaints from immigrant leaders.

But the task force soon decided to hold hearings, concluding they needed to hear
directly about the groundswell of discontent stirred by the program. The task
force includes local law enforcement officers, immigration lawyers and
representatives of immigration agents' unions.

In a letter Thursday, more than 160 immigrant rights organizations said that
Immigration and Customs Enforcement was a ''rogue agency,'' and they called on
the members of the task force to resign.

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints of everyone booked into jail are
checked against the F.B.I.'s criminal databases -- long a routine police
practice -- and also against Department of Homeland Security databases, which
record immigration violations.

''This program at its heart is about serious offenders,'' Chuck Wexler, the
executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum and the task force's
chairman, said Thursday. ''I don't think there is any question that a number of
people being caught up in the system don't fit the criteria of serious
offender.''

He said the hearings had revealed many episodes when detention of immigrants who
were not dangerous criminals had led to mistrust of the local police, even
though immigration enforcement is handled by federal authorities.

Mr. Wexler said the hearings had shown that ''every time someone who is not
considered a serious offender is picked up and put into deportation proceedings,
it undermines the credibility of the program.''

Most people who spoke at the hearings opposed the program, Mr. Wexler said, but
many local law enforcement and government officials had expressed support. The
task force will issue a final report in September.

In Arlington, about 150 protesters marched to the hearing on the campus of
George Mason University, chanting, ''Hey, Obama, don't deport my mama.''

During the hearing, Maria Bolanos, 28, an immigrant from El Salvador, approached
an immigration official sitting in the audience to confront him directly. She
said she had been detained after calling the police following a fight with her
partner. She has been charged with illegal sale of phone cards, she said, a
charge she denied.

''I wouldn't call the police again, and I know many people that wouldn't do the
same,'' said Ms. Bolanos, who spoke in Spanish through an interpreter.

Paul Showalter, 51, an American who spoke in favor of the program, said a young
illegal immigrant had been murdered in his Arlington neighborhood by another
immigrant. ''So I, as a taxpayer in the State of Virginia, get to pay to house
that individual for 20 years to life,'' said Mr. Showalter. ''One young man is
dead, another is behind bars, because no one checked.''

A senior official from the immigration agency at the hearing said they had been
surprised by the strong criticism. ''In spite of what we've been trying to do to
get the word out about what Secure Communities is, we clearly are not making
ourselves clear,'' said Gary Mead, a top official in charge of deportations. He
said that the local police generally avoid arresting victims or witnesses of
crimes.

''If you don't get arrested, you don't get your fingerprints submitted to the
F.B.I., you will never become a subject of Secure Communities,'' Mr. Mead said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Grist for Left and Right in Perry Immigration Record

BYLINE: By JULIAN AGUILAR and EMILY RAMSHAW.

jaguilar@texastribune.org; eramshaw@texastribune.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 23A

LENGTH: 1286 words


Ann Coulter, the conservative pundit, has called Gov. Rick Perry ''a little bit
too much like George Bush'' on immigration -- and she does not mean it as a
compliment. Tea Party loyalists have decried Mr. Perry's opposition to a border
fence and Arizona-style enforcement laws. And Mitt Romney has taken
not-so-veiled jabs at Mr. Perry, criticizing officials who provide ''incentives
that promote illegal immigration.''

As Mr. Perry edges into front-runner status for the Republican presidential
nomination, his opponents are trying to plant seeds of doubt about how tough the
border state's governor has been on illegal immigration -- from his compassion
for immigrant students to the tightrope he has walked between securing the
border and protecting Texas' symbiotic relationship with Mexico.

Critics hope his track record, which some have generalized as tough on security
and gentle on people, will be a complicating factor for the Republican faithful.

''You can't even have an honest discussion about the economy without taking into
consideration illegal immigration,'' said Katrina Pierson, a member of the
Dallas Tea Party's steering committee. ''Governor Perry has not met the
standards, for me, to be the president of the United States if he can't even
address the real issues in Texas.''

The governor's campaign counters that a serious discussion about immigration
reform cannot take place until the Mexican border is secure.

''The Obama administration has failed to do so, but as president, Governor Perry
will deploy adequate resources, manpower and technology to get the job done,''
said Katherine Cesinger, a spokeswoman for Mr. Perry.

Mr. Perry's first immigration-related move as governor was probably his most
controversial. In 2001, he signed into law a bill making Texas the first state
to grant in-state college tuition rates and financial aid to immigrant children,
regardless of their legal status. In 2009, roughly 1 percent of Texas college
students -- about 12,000 students -- benefited from the law.

Two years later, Mr. Perry joined forces with Vicente Fox, then the president of
Mexico, to advocate for overhauling guest-worker laws. When the fiscal
conservative commentator Lou Dobbs questioned him on immigration on CNN in 2003,
Mr. Perry said that Texas had a ''close, complex'' relationship with Mexico, and
that businesses relied on immigrants for affordable labor.

To that end, Mr. Perry has split with the platform of the Texas Republican
Party, asserting that an Arizona-style immigration enforcement law -- in which
the authorities are required to question people about their legal status -- is
not a good fit for Texas.

''We have to understand why millions of people come here and why many more have
died trying,'' Mr. Perry said in his 2007 inaugural address. ''It is for
something as basic as the freedom to find a job and feed their families.''

Mr. Perry's compassion ends where he believes Texas' security concerns begin. He
has never wavered in his desire to secure the 1,200-mile Texas-Mexico border
with manpower, not ''preposterous'' fencing, or in his frustration with the
federal government, which he believes has not adequately protected Texas from
the drug violence raging across the Rio Grande.

In 2005, Mr. Perry announced a $10 million state program to increase border
patrols and upgrade radio systems along the border. A year later, he unveiled
plans to install hundreds of video cameras, creating a multimillion-dollar
''virtual'' wall that in its first four years proved overly ambitious, netting
few arrests. Though Mr. Perry expressed support for improving guest-worker
programs in 2003, when President George W. Bush pushed for it in 2005, the
governor's frustration with the federal government kept him from supporting it.

Meanwhile, Mr. Perry has remained at war with the Obama administration over his
request in 2010 for 1,000 National Guard troops along the border; he got 250. In
August, he asked the federal government to reimburse Texas $350 million, the
estimated cost of imprisoning illegal immigrants in state lockups.

The immigration debate has at times been a minefield for Mr. Perry, who has had
to balance the ardently anti-immigration views of his base with the backing of
his major donors, some of whom often rely on immigrant labor. And the governor's
rhetoric -- and his tone -- has ebbed and flowed, coinciding with his
re-election bids and a State Legislature that is growing ever redder.

In 2009, he endorsed legislation, which has since passed, requiring Texans to
present a form of photo identification to vote, although some opponents said it
singled out minority voters.

And this year, in the lead-up to his run for president, Mr. Perry deemed a
measure to outlaw so-called sanctuary cities in Texas a legislative emergency.
The bill would have stripped state financing for municipalities that barred
local law enforcement from inquiring into the immigration status of individuals
detained for any crime.

Though Mr. Perry tried to differentiate the bill from the strict Arizona law,
the legislation ultimately died, largely because of an 11th-hour push from
Republican businessmen -- some of the governor's financial backers -- who
opposed it.

Despite his recent efforts, Mr. Perry has largely remained opposed to
legislation backed by the most conservative lawmakers, including efforts to
repeal the tuition law and measures that would end birthright citizenship for
children of illegal immigrants.

This stance has been highly unpopular with the Tea Party. ''Governor Perry has
been governor for 10 years,'' said JoAnn Fleming, the chairwoman of the Texas
Tea Party Caucus Advisory Committee, ''and we've not had enough interior
enforcement of immigration laws.''

But it has not won him many fans among progressives either, whose strategy is to
keep the memory of sanctuary cities fresh in the minds of Hispanic voters until
the 2012 general election.

''No candidate will be more effective at alienating Hispanic voters than Rick
Perry,'' said Shannon Perez, the political coordinator in Texas for the Service
Employees International Union.

And neither side particularly trusts the conservative business community. Last
week, an e-mail surfaced from some of the Republican donors who urged Mr. Perry
to back down on sanctuary cities, offering the governor's critics low-hanging
fruit. In the message, Norman Adams, a co-founder of Texans for Sensible
Immigration Policy, congratulated members for helping raise $205,000 for Mr.
Perry's presidential campaign and said their efforts were the key to courting
Hispanic voters.

For Mr. Perry, criticism from both sides of the political spectrum is hardly
new. In past races for governor, former Comptroller Carole Keeton Strayhorn and
Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison accused him of being lax on immigration -- to no
avail.

On the presidential trail, and as recently as the Republican presidential debate
on Wednesday, Mr. Perry has taken heat from Mr. Romney, who, trailing Mr. Perry
in several national polls, has made a point of reminding voters that as
Massachusetts governor, he vetoed legislation that would have provided in-state
tuition to illegal immigrants and strengthened the authority that state troopers
have to enforce immigration laws.

Mr. Perry has said that young students should not be punished for their parents'
decisions, that a border fence will do nothing but bolster the ''35-foot-ladder
business, and that Arizona-style enforcement laws are not appropriate for Texas,
a state that is 38 percent Hispanic.

But his latest talking points also include opposition to amnesty and to national
legislation that would provide a path to legal residency for some children
living in the country illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Critics on both sides oppose Gov. Rick Perry on immigration.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM YOUNG/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

College for Illegal Immigrants?

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 174 words


To the Editor:

Re ''California Dreaming'' (editorial, Sept. 4):

If a person is illegally in the United States, that person cannot legally work
here. Allowing illegal immigrant adults to obtain a college education does not
change that. All it does is create yet another magnet to entice people to enter
or stay in the United States illegally and take resources from citizens and
legal immigrants.

You scoff at the $40 million the program will cost. Take $40 million here and
$40 million there, and pretty soon it adds up to real money, particularly when
education budgets face deep cuts and tuitions soar.

California does not have the luxury to spend tax dollars unwisely. Nor does it
have the luxury to keep enticing illegal immigrants to come and reap its
taxpayer-supported benefits.

The United States must take away the magnets that draw illegal immigrants to
this country, not provide more.

ELTON GALLEGLY Washington, Sept. 8, 2011

The writer, a Republican of California, is chairman of the House Subcommittee on
Immigration Policy and Enforcement.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 17, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Borderline Ridiculous: The Republican presidential candidates get immigration
wrong

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 572 words


The United States is home to 11 million illegal immigrants. The undocumented
hold jobs, have children, pay taxes, use government services -- and too often
live in fear. What is to be done about them? It's a difficult question, and one
the Republican presidential candidates in the last two debates spent a great
deal of effort avoiding.

Unlike Ronald Reagan, none of these Republicans favor ''amnesty,'' and President
George W. Bush's comprehensive solution -- tougher enforcement and legalization,
with penalties -- has gone nowhere. Comprehensive reform is President Obama's
answer, too, which means no Republican today dares support it.

Asked about illegal immigrants, the candidates settled on the simplest-sounding
response: seal the border. What about immigrants already here? Same answer: seal
the border. This was both a nonanswer and a call for billions in new government
spending, which was very strange to hear from politicians also determined to
slash even the most basic public services any chance they get. The
seal-the-border answer is not only not a solution, it cynically misrepresents
what's happening on the ground. It falsely paints the border region as a
dangerous place when American border cities are among the safest in the country.
It also denies the fact that Presidents Bush and Obama have already spent years
and billions on border fencing, more Border Patrol officers and National Guard
troops, spy planes, even seismic sensors.

As for spending billions more to stanch the ''flood,'' illegal crossings are at
the lowest they have been in decades, because of the fence and the terrible
economy.

We were hoping that Mitt Romney of Massachusetts, Rick Perry of Texas and Jon
Huntsman of Utah would at least offer sensible solutions, having dealt with the
reality of immigration in their years as governors. But reality is clearly not
on the agenda.

Mr. Romney has slipped into and out of practically every immigration position
possible. He endorsed President Bush's call to create a path to citizenship, but
when Senators John McCain and Edward Kennedy offered a bill to do just that, he
opposed it. As governor he blocked in-state tuition for undocumented students.
He now opposes ''amnesty,'' rejects a ''special deal'' on legalization and
supports building a fence, ''technologically.''

Mr. Perry maintains that fencing off Texas's 1,250-mile border is too expensive.
Instead, he favors more troops and spy planes. Mr. Huntsman, who once endorsed
comprehensive reform and driver's licenses for the undocumented, called Mr.
Perry's skepticism about a fence ''pretty much a treasonous comment.''

Mr. Perry was also attacked for signing a bill giving in-state tuition to the
undocumented. ''I'm proud that we are having those individuals be contributing
members of our society rather than telling them, 'You go be on the government
dole,' '' he explained. For that he was booed.

But even this assertion of an old American ideal -- of immigrants as
contributing members of society -- was only a faint echo of Mr. Perry's former
moderation. In 2001, he told The Dallas Morning News that he was ''intrigued''
by and ''open to'' President Bush's comprehensive reform approach. A
legalization plan, he said then, was better than ''illegal immigrants living in
fear of the law and afraid to access basic services.'' That's the definition of
a sensible, pro-American immigration policy. Today, it's also Republican heresy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Risks Seen for Children Of Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 672 words


Children whose parents are illegal immigrants or who lack legal status
themselves face ''uniformly negative'' effects on their social development from
early childhood until they become adults, according to a study by four
researchers published Wednesday in the Harvard Educational Review.

The study concluded that more than five million children in the United States
are ''at risk of lower educational performance, economic stagnation, blocked
mobility and ambiguous belonging'' because they are growing up in immigrant
families affected by illegal status.

The study is the first to pull together field research by social scientists
nationwide to track the effects of a family's illegal immigration status on
children from birth until they graduate from college and start to navigate the
job market. It covers immigrants from a variety of origins, including Latinos
and Asians.

About 5.5 million children in this country have at least one parent who is an
illegal immigrant, according to an estimate by the Pew Hispanic Center. Among
them, about one million children were brought here illegally by their parents,
while about 4.5 million are United States citizens because they were born here.

In all, about 9.5 million people live in ''mixed status'' families that include
American citizen children and unauthorized immigrants, Jeffrey S. Passel, senior
demographer at the Pew center, said on Tuesday.

''Unauthorized status casts a big shadow that really extends to citizen as well
as undocumented children,'' Marcelo Suarez-Orozco, a professor of education at
New York University who is an author of the study, said on Tuesday. ''It affects
their cognitive development, engagement in school and their ability to be
emerging citizens.''

The Harvard study reports that ''fear and vigilance'' guide the home lives of
young children whose parents are illegal immigrants, making the parents
significantly less likely to engage with teachers or be active in schools.

Parents' fears of deportation led to lower levels of enrollment of their
American children in public programs for which the children were legally
eligible, including child care subsidies, public preschool and food stamps, the
study found.

The other authors were Carola Suarez-Orozco and Robert T. Teranishi of New York
University and Hirokazu Yoshikawa of the Harvard Graduate School of Education.

Many illegal immigrant parents work long hours in low-wage jobs, sometimes more
than one job. New research on very young children cited in the Harvard study
showed that the undocumented parents' difficult work conditions ''contribute
substantially to the lower cognitive skills of children in their families.''
This was true even though the children were more likely to be in two-parent
families than American children as a whole.

As teenagers, children without legal status face a hard awakening when they
apply for jobs, driver's licenses or financial aid for college and discover they
are not legally qualified for any of them. Their paths diverge from siblings who
are American citizens by birthright.

''In late adolescence, they start to realize their legal limitations, and their
worlds turn completely upside down,'' said Roberto G. Gonzales, a sociologist at
the University of Chicago whose research on college-age illegal immigrants is
cited in the Harvard study.

Academic achievement does little to lift the prospects of illegal immigrants who
have grown up here. Out of 150 immigrants Professor Gonzales studied in depth,
31 had completed college or advanced degrees, but none were in a career that
matched their educational training. Many were working low-wage jobs like their
parents.

The Harvard study found that many illegal immigrant youths, facing the ''reduced
promise of mobility,'' had dropped out of school and begun the search for work
they could do without legal papers, ''forced deeper and deeper into an
underground work force.''

The researchers said that a generation of young illegal immigrants raised in
this country was moving toward ''perpetual outsider-hood.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 23, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Perry and Romney Rain Attacks at Republican Debate

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Ashley Parker contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1203 words


ORLANDO, Fla. -- In their third debate in as many weeks, former Gov. Mitt Romney
of Massachusetts and Gov. Rick Perry of Texas engaged in a sometimes heated back
and forth over immigration, health care and entitlements, their rivalry
dominating a stage that included seven other candidates struggling to catch up
in the race for the Republican presidential nomination.

Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry arrived here with a strategic imperative to challenge
the other's consistency and conservative credentials. The tensions only grew as
the night wore on, to the point where Jon M. Huntsman Jr., the former governor
of Utah, joked that Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry were at risk of bludgeoning each
other to death.

Still, after two hours of dueling it was unclear whether Mr. Perry had achieved
his goal of knocking Mr. Romney off his fairly unruffled stride. It was
similarly not certain that Mr. Romney had made headway in knocking Mr. Perry
down a few pegs in what has been a relatively strong opening to his young
campaign.

Mr. Romney sought to capitalize on the concern among many conservatives about
Mr. Perry's position on illegal immigration, harshly criticizing the Texas
policy that allows illegal immigrants to qualify for in-state tuition rates at
public colleges and universities.

''That just doesn't make sense to me,'' Mr. Romney said, noting that illegal
immigrants receive as much as $22,000 a year in tuition breaks that out-of-state
citizens do not get.

Offering an impassioned defense of that policy -- and receiving boos from a
segment of the audience -- Mr. Perry did not back down, saying, ''If you say
that we should not educate children that have come into our state for no other
reason than they've been brought here by no fault of their own, I don't think
you have a heart.''

The debate, held at the Orange County Convention Center and sponsored by Fox
News, Google and the Republican Party of Florida, featured robust audience
participation and questions submitted via YouTube. The 5,000 people there
responded loudly at times, including boos during a question from a gay solider
about the repeal of the ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy regarding gay and
lesbian service members.

And while the Fox News moderators sought to engage all of the candidates, the
exchanges between Mr. Romney and Mr. Perry -- standing side by side --
overshadowed the others.

At one point, Mr. Romney cited a passage from Mr. Perry's book ''Fed Up!'' and
said the Texas governor had suggested that state or local governments be allowed
to run their own Social Security programs. He accused Mr. Perry of running away
from his own words.

''There's a Rick Perry out there that's saying the federal government shouldn't
be in the pension business,'' Mr. Romney said. ''You better find that Rick Perry
and get him to stop saying that.''

Mr. Perry hit back by accusing Mr. Romney of editing his book ''No Apologies''
between printings to remove a passage saying that the health care plan he
instituted in Massachusetts -- considered a model for President Obama's overhaul
-- was good for the nation.

''You said that it was exactly what the American people needed to have -- that's
Romneycare -- given to them as you had in Massachusetts,'' he said.

Mr. Romney responded by saying: ''I actually wrote my book, and in my book I
said no such thing. And it's fine for you to retreat from your own words in your
own book, but please don't try and make me retreat from the words that I wrote
in my book.''

As the exchanged continued, Mr. Perry, standing to Mr. Romney's right, joked,
''It's kind of badminton'' and swung his arm. But later he set any joking aside,
saying of Mr. Romney, ''I think Americans don't know sometimes which Mitt Romney
they're dealing with.''

Mr. Romney had managed to emerge relatively unharmed from the past few debates,
and the pressure was on Mr. Perry to change that. If Mr. Perry's key line was
meant to be a solid punch to the jaw, he seemed to rush it and stumble a bit.

''Is it the Mitt Romney that was on the side of -- against the Second Amendment
before he was for the Second Amendment? Was it -- was before -- he was before
the social programs from the standpoint of -- he was for standing up for Roe v.
Wade before he was against first -- Roe v. Wade?'' he said. ''I mean we'll wait
until tomorrow to see which Mitt Romney we're really talking to tonight.''

A late attempt at humor seemed to go astray as well, when Mr. Perry was asked
which of the candidates on stage he would pick as his vice-presidential nominee.
Speaking of Herman Cain, a former business executive, Mr. Perry said he would
''mate him up'' with the former House Speaker Newt Gingrich to make a perfect
political partner. Mock wincing, Mr. Romney remarked coolly that the night had
produced ''a couple of images I'm going to have a hard time getting out of my
mind.''

Mr. Huntsman, who served as ambassador to China in the Obama administration,
appeared to express frustration that the night had been so much about Mr. Romney
and Mr. Perry. He noted that four years ago the two supposed Republican
front-runners were former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York and former
Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee.

''They seemed to disappear altogether,'' he said, ''I can't remember where they
went.''

For his part, Mr. Huntsman helped point up significant differences in the
candidate's views of American involvement abroad. ''After 10 years of fighting
the war on terror, people are ready to bring our troops home from Afghanistan,''
Mr. Huntsman said. ''This country has given its all.''

Former Senator Rick Santorum sharply disagreed, saying: ''We should be fighting
wars to win, not fighting wars for politics.'' Mr. Santorum chastised several of
his rivals at different points in the evening and challenged their conservative
credentials.

Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota has struggled to break through at
the debates, but she took a question from moderators that she might have wanted
to avoid.

She was asked why, in attacking Mr. Perry for requiring that sixth-grade girls
take a vaccine against a virus linked to cervical cancer, she wrongly asserted
that the vaccine could cause mental retardation. Ms. Bachmann responded that she
was merely relating a story a mother had told her, and she again noted that Mr.
Perry's former chief of staff had been a lobbyist for the vaccine's maker,
Merck.

That created another opening for Mr. Perry to paint himself as a compassionate
conservative, saying, ''I got lobbied on this issue. I got lobbied by a
31-year-old young lady who had Stage 4 cervical cancer.''

Mr. Gingrich chided the moderators for some of their questions and sought to
turn the conversation to a serious of discussion of policy. He previewed his
plan to outline a 21st-century ''Contract With America,'' the document that he
used to win the House majority in the 1990s.

''It's going to be far bolder, far deeper, far more profound than what we did in
1994,'' he said.

Gary E. Johnson, a former New Mexico governor who has been excluded from the
last three debates, delighted the crowd with a line criticizing Mr. Obama's
economic plan: ''My next-door neighbor's two dogs have created more shovel-ready
jobs than the president.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The presidential candidates, from left, Rick Perry, Mitt Romney
and Michele Bachmann listening to Jon M. Huntsman Jr. during the debate Thursday
night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Perry Backpedaling On Tuition Comment

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 333 words


Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said Wednesday that it was ''inappropriate'' of him to
have branded as heartless those who oppose tuition breaks for the children of
illegal immigrants.

In an interview with Newsmaxx.com, Mr. Perry said that his remarks during last
week's debate were ''inappropriate'' and that he had been ''overpassionate'' in
his answer to the question.

''I probably chose a poor word to explain that,'' Mr. Perry said in the
interview. ''For people who don't want their state to be giving tuition to
illegal aliens, illegal immigrants in this country, that's their call, and I
respect that.''

In the debate, Mr. Perry had been asked about the program in Texas, in which the
children of illegal immigrants receive tuition discounts when they attend
universities in the state. He defended the program and criticized those who
disagree.

''If you say that we should not educate children who have come into our state
for no other reason than they've been brought there by no fault of their own, I
don't think you have a heart,'' Mr. Perry said. ''We need to be educating these
children, because they will become a drag on our society.''

His retreat, which came after a week of being slammed by conservatives who back
tough treatment for illegal immigrants, signals how much Mr. Perry's campaign
was worried about the political repercussions. On Tuesday night, for instance,
he was criticized by Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey for his remarks.

But Mr. Perry did not back away from his support of the policy.

Perhaps mindful of flip-flopping on a key issue, Mr. Perry said he stood by his
support of the legislation, which he noted again was backed by the vast majority
of lawmakers from both parties in his state.

''I was probably a bit overpassionate by using that word. And it was
inappropriate,'' he said. ''But here's what I do believe: That it is a state's
sovereign right to decide that issue for themselves.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 30, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fatal Accident Puts Focus On Deportation Program

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 856 words


BOSTON -- A fatal accident that the police say involved an illegal immigrant
driving drunk has stirred outrage in Massachusetts and put Gov. Deval Patrick on
the defensive for his resistance to a federal program intended to deport
criminals.

According to the police, the immigrant, Nicolas Guaman from Ecuador, struck and
killed a young motorcyclist in Milford last month while intoxicated, dragging
him for a quarter of a mile. Mr. Guaman has a previous criminal record, the
police said, and many here have pointed to his case as an example of why the
federal program, known as Secure Communities, is necessary.

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints of anyone booked into jail by the
state and local police are sent through the F.B.I. to the Department of Homeland
Security, which tracks immigration violations. Immigration agents then decide
whether to deport immigrants flagged by such checks.

Mr. Patrick, a Democrat, announced in June that Massachusetts would not
participate in Secure Communities, citing concerns that it casts too wide a net
and leads to the deportation of immigrants with no criminal histories. Two other
Democratic governors, Pat Quinn of Illinois and Andrew M. Cuomo of New York,
have also rejected the program, though the Obama administration has announced
plans to expand it nationwide, with or without states' support, by the end of
2013.

The Guaman case and several others -- including that of Onyango Obama, a Kenyan
uncle of President Obama who was arrested last month outside Boston on
drunken-driving charges and found to be in violation of a 1992 deportation order
-- have become part of a growing debate over whether Massachusetts is too easy
on illegal immigrants.

Critics, including some Democrats, are also asking why Mr. Patrick, a close ally
of Mr. Obama's, would reject a program central to Mr. Obama's immigration
enforcement plan. The Obama administration has taken steps recently to focus its
deportation strategy on illegal immigrants who have been convicted of violent
and drug-related crimes.

''Unfortunately, the governor doesn't think it's a serious enough problem to
deal with,'' said State Senator Richard T. Moore, a Democrat whose district
includes Milford. ''We're hearing from the public constantly: what are we going
to do about this problem?''

Mr. Moore is co-sponsoring new bipartisan legislation meant to crack down on
illegal immigration, in part by imposing tougher penalties, including possible
jail time, for driving without a license and not registering cars properly. Mr.
Guaman was not carrying a license at the time of his arrest.

Onyango Obama, the half brother of the president's father, who did have a
driver's license, was taken into custody on an immigration detainer after his
arrest in Framingham on Aug. 24. Immigration and Customs Enforcement released
him on Sept. 8 but has refused to say why, citing federal privacy laws.

In another recent case, a Mexican immigrant was arrested on a charge of drunken
driving last weekend in Boxborough, and the police said he had five previous
drunken-driving convictions. The man, Eduardo A. Torres, had been deported three
times previously, according to immigration officials.

On Wednesday, Mr. Moore joined three county sheriffs at a State House news
conference calling for Mr. Patrick to embrace the Secure Communities program
immediately. Also on Wednesday, Senator Scott Brown, a Republican facing
re-election next year, urged Janet Napolitano, the homeland security secretary,
to ''proceed with the full activation'' of the program in Massachusetts.

He also suggested that Mr. Patrick's resistance would delay the program's
activation in Massachusetts; it currently operates only in Boston. But a
spokesman for the immigration agency, which runs the program, said that would
not be a factor.

The sheriffs of Bristol, Plymouth and Worcester Counties, all Republicans, said
they were working with federal officials to adopt elements of the program in
their counties immediately. Mr. Patrick said on Wednesday that the state already
sends fingerprints of arrestees to the F.B.I., which is free to share them with
immigration agents. The state also sends fingerprints of convicted criminals
directly to the immigration agency once they arrive in state prisons, he said.

''This is about grandstanding and headlines,'' Mr. Patrick said of his critics
on the issue. ''Meanwhile, the public should know that every fingerprint is sent
to the federal government; they should know that every felony is referred to the
federal government.''

It is far from certain that Mr. Moore's bill will pass both houses of the
legislature; similar crackdowns in recent years have passed the Senate but not
the more liberal House of Representatives. But Eva Millona, executive director
of the Massachusetts Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition, said she was
worried.

''We seem to continue to lose supporters,'' she said.

Ms. Millona added that it was unfair to connect drunken driving with illegal
immigration. ''Drunk driving is another issue, and people should be punished for
it,'' she said. ''But immigration status has nothing to do with it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nicolas Guaman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 9, 2011 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Finds Manipulation In Recall Vote In Arizona

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1130 words


MESA, Ariz. -- At first glance, it had the makings of a spirited election: the
leader of Arizona's crackdown on illegal immigration facing off at the polls
with an immigrant from Mexico who believed that the state had gone too far.

But the immigrant, Olivia Cortes, a retiree who filed papers in July to
challenge the State Senate president, Russell Pearce, disappeared from the
political scene last week just as quickly as she had appeared. Ms. Cortes's
candidacy for a legislative district in this working-class community east of
Phoenix, it now appears, had been a dirty trick.

Critics of Mr. Pearce's hard-line approach to illegal immigration collected
enough signatures to force him into a recall election in November. But allies of
Mr. Pearce, who is one of the state's most powerful politicians, did not take
that humiliation lightly. They recruited Ms. Cortes in what was an effort to
split the anti-Pearce vote, particularly among Latinos, a judge later found.

Greg Western, a Pearce ally who is the chairman of the East Valley Tea Party,
was a central figure in the scheme and became Ms. Cortes's campaign adviser.
Soon, signs promoting Ms. Cortes's candidacy appeared on street corners, bearing
the motto made famous by Cesar Chavez of the United Farm Workers: ''Si, Se
Puede!''

Ms. Cortes avoided the news media for weeks, and the few interviews she did give
showed her to be shaky on the issues. Her candidacy began falling apart after
another candidate, Jerry Lewis, who like Mr. Pearce is a Republican, began his
own campaign. Allies of Mr. Lewis's went to court to challenge Ms. Cortes's
election bid as a sham.

The judge, Edward O. Burke of Superior Court of Maricopa County, declined to
remove her from the ballot but did say that the evidence suggested that some of
her so-called supporters really supported Mr. Pearce. ''The court finds that
Pearce supporters recruited Cortes, a political neophyte, to run in the recall
election to siphon Hispanic votes from Lewis to advance Pearce's recall election
bid,'' the judge said in his ruling.

Still, Judge Burke said he found no wrongdoing by Ms. Cortes herself and
believed her testimony that she, a naturalized American citizen from Veracruz,
Mexico, opposes ''what she believes is Pearce's harsh legislative treatment and
comments about illegal Hispanic immigrants.''

The judge said the Cortes case was distinct from others in which sham candidates
were put forward, including a dispute from upstate New York in which supporters
of Linda H. Overbaugh, a candidate for the Greene County Legislature, circulated
petitions in 2009 on behalf of a Linda L. Overbaugh, who had not given her
consent to run.

The judge also said Ms. Cortes's case did not resemble the subterfuge displayed
in ''The Distinguished Gentleman,'' a movie in which the actor Eddie Murphy,
playing a character named Jeff Johnson, runs for Congress after an incumbent
with the same name dies.

''The court assumes that candidates have run for office for less than the noble
motive of serving the public, which could include getting a better-paying job,
pension benefits, achieving a position of perceived importance, boredom, or no
reason at all,'' Judge Burke said. ''Divining candidates' motives and acting on
them is more properly the role of voters.''

But Ms. Cortes's candidacy fell apart after Mr. Lewis's allies said they had
uncovered evidence of even more links between Ms. Cortes and Mr. Pearce, noting
for instance that Mr. Pearce's nieces had helped collect signatures to get Ms.
Cortes on the ballot and that one of Mr. Pearce's brothers, Lester, who is a
justice of the peace and is prohibited from campaigning, accompanied them.

Instead of facing another court hearing on Friday, in which Mr. Pearce's
relatives were subpoenaed, Ms. Cortes agreed through her lawyer to pull out of
the race.

But ballots listing the names of Mr. Pearce, Mr. Lewis and Ms. Cortes have
already been prepared. Election officials said they would post notices at
polling places for Election Day on Nov. 8, informing voters that Ms. Cortes was
no longer running.

Mr. Pearce's detractors insisted on Friday that new ballots that do not mention
Ms. Cortes should be printed so that no voter would be confused.

It remained unclear who exactly financed Ms. Cortes's short-lived campaign,
which employed a professional signature gatherer, produced untold lawn signs,
created a Web site and issued occasional news releases that borrow Superman's
theme, ''Truth, Justice and the American Way.''

At a debate on Thursday that was supposed to be Ms. Cortes's first public
appearance in the race, there were only two candidates, Mr. Pearce and Mr.
Lewis. They clashed on immigration, with Mr. Pearce arguing that illegal
immigrants are a burden on the state and Mr. Lewis pushing for what he called a
more humane approach on the issue.

At one point, Mr. Lewis lamented Arizona's poor image, which he said is
''something akin to 1964 Alabama.''

Pearce allies in the crowd groaned heartily.

Mr. Pearce said he liked the state's image just as it is. ''We are in the front
of the parade,'' he said, noting that other states, among them 2011 Alabama, had
followed Arizona's attempt to drive illegal immigrants away.

Ms. Cortes's candidacy was not debated, but afterward Mr. Pearce was called by
reporters, who grilled him on the issue. He denied being behind Ms. Cortes's
candidacy and said he had spoken to his nieces about their involvement. ''I
wouldn't have done it,'' he said. ''I wish they hadn't done it.''

Outside the debate, partisans for each candidate waved signs at the other side.

''Russell Pearce mentioned the Constitution six times tonight, and Jerry Lewis
mentioned it zero,'' said Craig Ray, a Pearce ally who was convinced that his
candidate would stave off the challenge.

''He's a one-issue senator,'' Al Moncayo, a retired building inspector of
Mexican descent, said of Mr. Pearce, whom he wants ousted. ''It's all about
immigration to him. As for Olivia Cortes, she's probably a nice lady. I don't
know her personally. But, come on.''

Ms. Cortes did not respond to a telephone call, an e-mail or a knock at her
door.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Sunday about a judge's finding that supporters of Arizona State
Senate President Russell Pearce recruited a candidate to siphon votes from his
opponent in a recall election referred incorrectly to a 2009 New York race for
Greene County Legislature, in which petitions were circulated on behalf of a
candidate who had not given her consent. In that race, supporters, not
opponents, of Linda H. Overbaugh mistakenly put the name of another woman, Linda
L. Overbaugh, on the petitions, resulting in their disqualification.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jerry Lewis, left, and Russell Pearce expressed competing views
on illegal immigration at a debate in Arizona on Thursday night. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TIM HACKER/EAST VALLEY TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Olivia Cortes, at a recent court hearing, withdrew from a State Senate race
after questions about her candidacy were raised. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACK
KURTZ/ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A28)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 15, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Regents Expected to Press for Laws to Allow Tuition Aid for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 784 words


When they vote on their legislative agenda on Tuesday, New York State's top
education officials will focus for the first time on the contentious topic of
illegal immigration.

The agenda, proposed by the state education commissioner, John B. King Jr., to
the Board of Regents, has as a top priority a proposal to push Congress to pass
legislation that would provide a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants who
go to college. Included in that legislation, known as the Dream Act, is a
provision that would give students who are in the country illegally access to
tuition assistance at city and state universities. The agenda is expected to be
approved.

The lobbying effort would thrust the State Education Department into the heart
of a highly politicized debate that has divided communities for years and
spawned a hodgepodge of state regulations in response to the federal
government's inaction on reforming the country's immigration laws.

New York already allows illegal immigrants to pay in-state tuition rates at
state universities. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas signed a similar measure into law
in 2001; controversy surrounding it has threatened to derail his effort to gain
the Republican presidential nomination.

In an interview, Dr. King said that the Regents' strategy on the Dream Act would
address one of the most significant roadblocks faced by an estimated 345,000
illegal immigrants who attend public schools in New York. By providing help with
tuition and with residency documents, the federal law would allow those who
graduate from college to strive for more than the menial jobs they must often
accept because of their status.

''It's about making sure that students are able to fulfill their aspirations
after they graduate from high school, which is something that's currently not
available to those who happen to be undocumented,'' Dr. King said. In addition,
he said, ''it aligns perfectly with our college-and-career readiness goals.''

Dr. King said that lobbying Congress would be the ''first step'' in a campaign
that could progress to asking the State Legislature to do what California did
just a few days ago: offer state-financed scholarships and aid to illegal
immigrants attending state universities.

For now, the plan is to write to and visit the members of Congress from New
York, as well as legislators from other states who could play decisive roles in
the Dream Act's passage. The bill, first introduced in 2000, has yet to gain
enough support for passage. It would create a path to citizenship for certain
young illegal immigrants who came to the United States as children, completed
two years of college or military service and met other requirements, like
passing a criminal background check.

For the past several months, Dr. King and the Board of Regents' chancellor,
Merryl H. Tisch, have taken an interest in addressing the needs of the state's
immigrant students, most of whom go to school in New York City.

''These people are going to be citizens of this country some day, and we need to
prepare them for a life of independence,'' Dr. Tisch said.

On Wednesday, Dr. King announced an agreement to improve the services offered in
city schools to students who are still learning English, like more access to
certified teachers and to the language lessons to which they are legally
entitled.

Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
advocacy group, said the Regents' agenda was a natural evolution of a process
begun years ago to refine the state's policies regarding students who are not
proficient in English.

''It really brings the focus back to what the issue is about,'' she said. ''It's
about education, and it's about our children.''

Some critics of immigration reform criticized the Regents' plan as going too
far. ''This amounts to a much broader amnesty than the New York State Board of
Regents wants to portray it,'' said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation
of American Immigration Reform, which has called for reducing the levels of
illegal immigration.

But Daniela Alulema, a board member of the New York State Youth Leadership
Council, a supporter of access to higher education for illegal immigrants, said
she hoped the Regents would eventually throw their support behind a version of
the Dream Act introduced in the State Legislature in March. Among other things,
the bill would give illegal immigrants access to tuition assistance and driver's
licenses, a provision that crumbled under intense criticism in 2007, after it
was proposed by Gov. Eliot Spitzer.

Ms. Alulema has pinned her hopes on state action. ''The truth is, it's very hard
for something to happen in Congress because of the climate there now,'' she
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 16, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

At Rallies, 2 Candidates Deliver Blistering Attacks on Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL and EDWARD WYATT; Trip Gabriel reported from Perry, and
Ed Wyatt reported from Harriman, Tenn. Julia Preston contributed reporting from
New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 687 words


PERRY, Iowa -- Two Republican candidates vying for of the party's conservative
base issued full-throated attacks Saturday on illegal immigration.

Herman Cain, the former business executive who has emerged as a front-runner in
some polls, said he would build an electrified fence on the border with Mexico
that could kill people who try to cross illegally. Representative Michele
Bachmann of Minnesota vowed to make English the government's official language,
to build a ''secure double fence'' and to eliminate ''taxpayer-funded benefits
for illegal aliens.''

Mr. Cain, speaking at a Tea Party-sponsored rally in Tennessee, made some of his
most pointed remarks yet on the issue. He said he might use military troops
''with real guns and real bullets'' to stop intruders.

Responding to anyone who might consider his remarks ''insensitive,'' Mr. Cain
said the real fault lies with some illegal immigrants. ''It's insensitive for
them to be killing our citizens, killing our border agents,'' he said. ''That's
what's insensitive. And that mess has to stop.''

Deploying equally strong language, Mrs. Bachmann gave one of the great
stem-winding speeches of her campaign. She described illegal immigration as an
economic as well as a security threat. ''This issue cannot be allowed to stand
without fighting back,'' she said, drawing applause from a crowd of about 60.

It was no coincidence that she spoke in this Iowa community with the same name
as Gov. Rick Perry of Texas. The campaign billed the event as ''Bachmann Takes
it to Perry Rally.''

Mr. Perry stole much heat and light from Mrs. Bachmann after entering the
Republican presidential race this summer, but since then he has been damaged
when conservative voters learned of some immigration policies he advocated in
Texas.

Even as he has fallen back in polls nationally and in Iowa, Mrs. Bachmann has
not been the beneficiary -- primarily, that has been Mr. Cain.

Mrs. Bachmann's appeal seemed targeted at voters in Iowa, where her campaign has
placed most if its bets ahead of the caucuses early next year.

In the speech, she attacked the law Mr. Perry signed in 2001 allowing
undocumented students who graduate from a Texas high school to attend a state
college on in-state tuition. She said it violates a 1996 federal law.

She also cited figures from a conservative group, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, maintaining that illegal immigration costs taxpayers $133
billion a year, most of it spent on education.

This week, some leading conservative evangelical pastors issued an appeal to the
Republican candidates to soften their rhetoric and proposals on immigration,
warning that the debate was stigmatizing and alienating Hispanics, who have
flocked to evangelical churches in recent years. The appeal came from Richard
Land of the Southern Baptist Convention; Matthew D. Staver, dean of the law
school at Liberty University; and the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the
largest national conference of Hispanic evangelical churches.

Brent A. Wilkes, vice chairman of the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda, said
Mr. Cain's remarks were reflective of increasingly harsh prescriptions offered
by the Republican candidates for dealing with illegal immigration.

''These folks who come across the border are at most committing a misdemeanor,''
Mr. Wilkes said. ''To suggest that they would be electrocuted or shot would be
to treat them harsher than we treat murderers or rapists.''

Mrs. Bachmann insisted she was not taking aim at Hispanics. It is a matter of
fairness, she said. She pointed to her own family of ''honest, hard-working''
Norwegian immigrants, who came to Iowa seven generations ago.

''When they came in, they agreed they'd learn our Constitution, they'd live
under the laws of Iowa and the United States, they agreed to learn English and
to assimilate into their society.''

''It's high time,'' she said, ''we stand up again unashamedly'' for American
values.

Most of the audience applauded. One dissenter who heard her, Eddie Diaz, a
resident of Perry, said, ''I'm tired of candidates on both sides using scare
tactics against illegal immigrants.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Romney's Lawn Care and the Fight Over Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON, BINYAMIN APPELBAUM and TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CHECK POINT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 773 words


Rick Perry's most pointed attack against Mitt Romney in Tuesday night's debate
concerned an immigration matter that came to light when Mr. Romney was
campaigning for president four years ago.

''You hired illegals in your home,'' said Mr. Perry, the governor of Texas,
''and you knew for -- about it for a year.'' For Mr. Romney to say he was tough
on illegal immigration was ''the height of hypocrisy,'' Mr. Perry said.

While it is not clear that Mr. Romney, a former governor of Massachusetts, ever
knew directly that his landscaping company was using illegal immigrants to tend
his lawn, the episode was embarrassing for him in 2007 when it happened, and it
is awkward now.

The Boston Globe first reported in December 2006 that Mr. Romney was employing a
lawn care company that regularly hired illegal immigrants. He said he had
dismissed an illegal immigrant he discovered working on his property. But he
continued to use the same lawn company, and a year later The Globe reported that
the company had once again employed illegal immigrants for lawn care. The day of
the second Globe report, Mr. Romney fired the company.

Mr. Romney said that he had continued to use the company because it had
guaranteed that it would not hire any illegal immigrants.

At the debate, Mr. Romney said he would combat illegal immigration by adopting a
nationwide electronic program to verify the immigration status of all new
workers. And he fired back at Mr. Perry, saying, ''I don't think I've ever hired
an illegal immigrant in my life.''

Cain's Tax Math

At the start of the debate, Herman Cain said his much-discussed ''9-9-9'' plan
''does not raise taxes on those that are making the least. It's simply not
true.''

But a growing number of independent analysts have concluded that it does.

The plan calls for deep cuts in the existing federal taxes on individual and
corporate income, both of which would be reduced to a flat 9 percent from a
system of tiered rates that run above 30 percent for the highest earners. Mr.
Cain then proposes the addition of a 9 percent sales tax.

Analysts say Mr. Cain's plan would raise taxes for lower-income families and
reduce the taxes paid by higher-income families.

''Herman Cain's 9-9-9 plan is a terrific example of fiscal hocus-pocus,'' Edward
D. Kleinbard, a law professor at the University of Southern California, writes
in a coming analysis of the plan for the trade journal Tax Notes. ''It is
presented as a low-tax panacea, but it actually would raise the tax bills of
many Americans very substantially.''

Professor Kleinbard estimated that a family with $120,000 in income last year
would have paid $541 less in federal taxes under Mr. Cain's plan. A family that
earned $50,000, by contrast, would have paid $4,800 more.

The Tax Policy Center, a joint venture of the Urban Institute and the Brookings
Institute, concluded that the plan amounted to a 25.38 percent national sales
tax. Flat sales taxes fall more heavily on lower-income families, siphoning off
a much larger share of their total income.

It is also important to note that the 9-9-9 plan is only a transitional stage in
Mr. Cain's broader plan to overhaul federal taxation. He has proposed the
ultimate elimination of income taxes in favor of a flat 30 percent sales tax.

Border Fence Costs

Is it possible to build a fence along the 2,000-mile United States-Mexico
border? If so, is it worth the cost? And would it effectively secure the border?

Most of the candidates are competing to outdo one another in their support for
building a fence on, as Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota has put it,
''every mile, every foot, every inch'' of the border. Mr. Cain has called for an
electrified barrier that could kill people, a statement he later said was in
jest, then later still said he had meant.

Only Mr. Perry, whose state's border with Mexico is 1,200 miles long, disagrees
about the sense of a fence along every mile, without conceding his commitment to
security.

It would take 10 to 15 years and cost $30 billion to complete a fence, Mr. Perry
said on Tuesday night. He argued that a more cost-effective approach would be to
build one in high-traffic areas and to use ''boots on the ground'' and Predator
drones to monitor other areas. ''That is the way to shut that border down,'' he
said.

The Department of Homeland Security agrees with Mr. Perry. Officials say that a
fence is prohibitively expensive and inefficient, given that many stretches of
the border are remote. The agency has completed about 650 miles of fence, mostly
in cities and at points where illegal crossings are frequent. Most of the work
was done under the Bush administration.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Carlo of 'Sesame Street,' on Being an Illegal Immigrant in Real Life

BYLINE: By RACHEL SALTZ

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW
'INTRiNGULIS'; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words


Carlo Alban: nice American boy. Carlo Alban: illegal immigrant. When he was in
high school, Mr. Alban was both, not to mention frequently stoned and a regular
cast member of ''Sesame Street.''

''I was hiding in plain sight,'' he says in ''Intringulis,'' his engaging
one-man show at Intar Theater, ''pretending to be an American teenager while
playing one on television.''

''Intringulis'' -- the word means a snag or difficulty -- is a modern
immigration story told by someone who lived it. Mr. Alban, who wrote and
performs the show, was 7 in 1986 when he flew with his parents and a brother to
Newark from Ecuador. (Four older siblings were left behind.) They had only
tourist visas, but intended to make America their home.

Less about divided consciousness and trying to fit in (though there's some of
that) and more about fear of being found out and the long, frequently corrupt
(payoffs are involved) business of becoming a naturalized citizen,
''Intringulis'' mixes first-person narration with songs and acted scenes.
Mostly, Mr. Alban plays his younger self -- the pothead riffing on Cortes and
Bolivar; the child actor who followed a cousin to a tryout and got the lead in
''Oliver!,'' later landing a role on ''Sesame Street'' (the family provided the
show with counterfeit documents); the normal, middle-class-seeming New Jersey
teenager with a secret. But there are other characters too, like a Mexican
window washer on a high perch talking about deportation troubles.

All that pretending and secret-guarding seems to have made Mr. Alban not only a
good actor but also a compassionate writer who can be funny without being cruel.
And he's winningly old-fashioned: He may be cynical about the process of
acquiring citizenship, but not about being a citizen. (Mr. Alban says he was
lucky to become one, and has harsh words for the current administration, which
has ''mercilessly gone after immigrants.'')

Smartly directed by David Anzuelo, ''Intringulis'' can ramble a bit, and at
times you wish the writing were sharper. Still, Mr. Alban, energetic and
intense, wins you over as a performer, never so much as when he's singing.

The songs, which he learned from his parents, are Nueva Cancion, a tradition, he
tells us, ''born out of the political and social struggles'' of Latin America.
Mr. Alban gives these tunes -- Victor Jara's ''Ni Chicha Ni Limona,'' Atahualpa
Yupanqui's ''Hermanos,'' Violeta Parra's ''Gracias a la Vida'' -- all he's got.
They're a link to his past, but not just. They're like his show: populist,
humanist, entertaining.

''Intringulis'' continues through Sunday at the Intar Theater, 500 West 52nd
Street, Clinton; (212) 352-3101, intartheatre.org.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Intringulis: Carlo Alban, originally of Ecuador and now a United
States citizen, tells of ''hiding in plain sight'' in his show at Intar Theater.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROL ROSEGG)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tough Immigration Talk Heats Up Debate, and Alienates Some Hispanics

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 944 words


Today, Republican candidates are competing over who can talk the toughest about
illegal immigration -- who will erect the most impenetrable border defense; who
will turn off ''magnets'' like college tuition benefits.

But after such pointed proposals heated up yet another Republican debate, on
Tuesday night, some party officials see a yellow light signaling danger in
battleground states with large Hispanic populations in November 2012. Will
Hispanic voters remember and punish the eventual Republican nominee?

''The discussion of creating electrified fences from sea to sea is neither
prudent nor helpful,'' said Ryan Call, chairman of the Republican Party of
Colorado, where Hispanics cast 13 percent of votes in 2008 and helped President
Obama flip the state to blue. ''They're throwing red meat around in an attempt
to mollify a particular aspect of the Republican base.''

Besides Colorado, Mr. Obama cemented his victory in part by carrying three other
swing states with large Hispanic voting populations: Florida, Nevada and New
Mexico.

Republican strategists have hoped to win many of these voters back by appealing
to their discontent over the economy and to their social conservatism, issues
that helped George W. Bush win a historically high 44 percent of Hispanic voters
in 2004.

Now, however, that pitch may be thwarted, according to some Republican
strategists.

Both Herman Cain, the former business executive, and Representative Michele
Bachmann are proposing a 1,200-mile border fence -- electrified, in Mr. Cain's
case, double-walled in Mrs. Bachmann's.

Mitt Romney has attacked Gov. Rick Perry of Texas as soft on illegal
immigration. Mr. Perry punched back in the debate on Tuesday in Las Vegas,
accusing Mr. Romney of ''hypocrisy'' because, Mr. Perry said, ''you had illegals
working on your property.''

Robert Ramirez, a Republican state representative from Colorado who attended the
debate, said Hispanic voters in his state ''are sick and tired of empty promises
from the Democratic Party.''

Nevertheless, Mr. Ramirez was concerned about the nominees' lack of sensitivity.
''We can't pretend the Latino vote doesn't exist,'' he said. ''It's time we
became the party of inclusion.''

Even Mr. Romney, who has been more measured in his remarks, may have lost
Hispanic support over his criticism of a Texas law that allows some children of
illegal immigrants to attend state colleges on in-state tuition.

''He can make as many trips to Florida and New Mexico and Colorado and other
swing states that have a large Latino population, but he can write off the
Latino vote,'' said Lionel Sosa, a strategist in Texas who advised Mr. Bush and
Senator John McCain on appealing to Hispanics. ''He's not going to gain it
again.''

In each of those states, plus Nevada, Hispanics are a growing share of eligible
voters, according to the Pew Hispanic Center. Although these voters have
traditionally favored Democrats, Mr. Obama's 67 percent share of the Hispanic
vote in 2008 dipped to 60 percent who voted Democratic during the 2010
Republican wave that swept the midterm elections, said Mark Hugo Lopez,
associate director of the Pew center.

In a Pew survey that year, Hispanic voters ranked education and the economy as
their top issues. But there was strong support for state-level ''Dream'' acts
allowing children of illegal immigrants to attend colleges on in-state tuition,
and 61 percent disapproved of more border fencing.

Many analysts credit the Democratic victories that year of Harry Reid of Nevada,
the Senate majority leader, and Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado to
get-out-the-vote efforts by Latinos.

''Sharron Angle got destroyed in the election because of her anti-immigration
stand,'' said Andres Ramirez, a Democratic strategist in Nevada, referring to
Mr. Reid's opponent, a Tea Party darling. Mr. Ramirez predicted that Hispanic
participation in the 2012 election in Nevada would surpass the 15 percent from
2008, and he said that Republicans missed an opportunity in holding a debate in
Las Vegas to showcase more moderate immigration views.

''Their rhetoric on illegal immigration was very over the top,'' he said. ''It
will cost them in the future.''

Heidi Smith, the Republican national committeewoman from Nevada, said the focus
on illegal immigration was a distraction. ''It's taking time off of the big
issue, and that is we don't have any jobs,'' she said.

In Florida, where the Hispanic vote has traditionally leaned Republican because
of large numbers of conservative Cuban-Americans, immigration issues may be
especially divisive in 2012. The state's favorite son Republican senator, Marco
Rubio, seems only too happy to duck immigration issues, and the
Republican-controlled State Senate refused to pass a bill this spring with a
tough requirement on employers to check workers' immigration status.

Joe Gruters, chairman of the Republican Party of Sarasota County in Florida,
said that showing toughness against illegal immigration was an ''electrifying''
issue and could bump a Republican candidate many points in primary polls. He is
disappointed by the moderation of candidates' proposals so far. ''Nobody said,
'We have to repeal the 14th Amendment,' '' he said, referring to the
constitutional guarantee of citizenship to a child born in the United States.
Critics of illegal immigrant mothers who supposedly enter the country to have
''anchor babies'' sometimes propose repealing the Reconstruction-era amendment.

Mr. Gruters was quick to concede that such positions would cost an eventual
Republican nominee.

''In case they're the nominee, it could be a deal-breaker where they take
themselves out as a serious contender,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Migrant workers harvested organic parsley this month in
Wellington, Colo. Some Republican candidates have seized on immigration policy
as an election issue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN MOORE/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mitt And Begonia-gate

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 747 words


Oh, wow! Rick Perry hit Mitt Romney with the illegal immigrant landscapers!

It was the high point of this week's Republican debate, and somehow I have a
feeling it was a preplanned attack. Perry was so eager to tell the world that
his nemesis had once relied on undocumented workers for a healthy lawn and
well-maintained tennis court that he responded to a question about uninsured
children in Texas with the story of Mitt's yard work.

''And the idea that you stand here before us and talk about -- that you're
strong on immigration is, on its face, the height of hypocrisy,'' Perry
declaimed.

I found this very exciting because it brings us closer to the moment when one of
Romney's competitors will point out that he once drove to Canada with the family
dog strapped on the roof of the car.

And then Romney will say: ''Hey, he was in a crate!'' Or: ''He liked the fresh
air!'' It'll be too late. Everybody else will whip out pictures of their pets
and stories about how the cat rides in her own special chair in the back seat,
or how the family deferred a trip to Aruba because the whippet was sick.

This week's debate was a triumph for Perry, who not only put Romney on the
defensive, but did it in complete sentences. He did get lost in the weeds during
a discussion of Romney's Mormonism. (''And this country is based on, as Newt
talked about, these values that are so important as we go forward, and the idea
that we should not have our freedom of religion, to be taken away by any
means.'')

The whole First Amendment thing might be a little complicated for a governor
whose State Constitution prohibits anyone who doesn't believe in God from
holding public office. This is not a joke.

But about Mitt Romney and the landscapers. This is the story: In 2006, The
Boston Globe reported that the yard of then-Governor Romney's family home was
being groomed by a landscaping firm with a history of using undocumented
workers. The team of reporters, led by Jonathan Saltzman and Maria Cramer,
tracked down people in Guatemala who recounted fond memories of their years of
clipping the Romney grass without the requisite immigration papers.

There was quite a bit of grass to clip. The family lived in an affluent Boston
suburb in a house on two-and-a-half acres, with a pool and a tennis court. Not
as fancy as the $12 million beachfront pad the Romneys are currently renovating
in California, but it was home.

''Aw, geez,'' Romney said back then, in his inimitable way, when he was asked
about the matter. The whole situation was particularly embarrassing because the
governor had just begun his first presidential race by beating up on Senator
John McCain for being soft on illegal immigrants. This was the old John McCain,
who, you may remember, was kidnapped by space aliens who specialized in
manufacturing cranky-old-men androids.

Anyway, Romney then went home, discovered an undocumented worker somewhere
amongst the foliage and sent him packing.

Also, he complained to the landscaping company. We're sure about that because
Romney explained it during the debate Tuesday night. This was after he had
already responded to Perry with one of those terrible artificial chuckles, then
got red in the face, had a heated exchange and violated the Texas governor's
space by grabbing his shoulder. It was exactly like professional wrestling,
except for the middle-aged guys in suits part.

''So we went to the company and we said, 'Look, you can't have any illegals
working on our property. That's -- I'm running for office, for Pete's sake. I
can't have illegals,' '' Romney recounted. If the debate had been less heated,
perhaps he could have manufactured a dialogue in which he gave the landscapers a
lecture on the rule of law. But ''I'm running for office, for Pete's sake''
really does ring true.

Interestingly, though, Romney kept using the same service until a year later
when he fired them after The Globe did a follow-up. (''Lawn Work at Romney's
Home Still Done by Illegal Immigrants.'')

What do you think took him so long? Was he distracted by the pressure of
preparing for the 2007-8 season of presidential debates, during which Romney
accused Rudy Giuliani of making New York a ''sanctuary city,'' Mike Huckabee of
supporting ''in-state benefits for illegal immigrants'' and McCain of pushing
''amnesty''?

Also, how was the paperless worker that Mitt ordered off the property
transported away?

If a crate on the roof plays any part in this story, we are going to be really,
really disturbed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 21, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words


An article on Wednesday about the disproportionate number of Latinos arrested
under an Obama administration deportation program misstated the number of
Latinos among the population of illegal immigrants in the United States. People
from Latin America make up about three-quarters of illegal immigrants, not
two-thirds.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 5, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Message For Iowa: A Romney Friend Does the Talking

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL JR.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 276 words


Mitt Romney may be skipping some major G.O.P. events in Iowa this week, but he's
still got his eye on someone who isn't: his rival Rick Perry.

According to The Associated Press, Mr. Romney's campaign on Thursday paid for
automated phone messages to Iowans that assert that the Texas governor has
fostered illegal immigration.

The attack message may signal that Mr. Romney still views Mr. Perry, despite his
recent slide in the polls, as his main threat in Iowa, which will hold its
first-in-the-nation caucuses on Jan. 3. The Perry campaign is betting all its
early-state chips on a strong showing in Iowa and South Carolina, while Mr.
Romney is far ahead in polls in New Hampshire (while also ahead of Mr. Perry in
the other early-voting states).

According to The A.P., an Arizona sheriff named Paul Babeu who is considering
running for Congress states on the taped call that ''Rick Perry is part of the
illegal immigration problem.''

Mr. Babeu also says: ''A lot of the candidates agree we need a border fence. And
almost all of them agree in-state tuition for illegal immigrants is wrong.
However, Rick Perry disagrees. Rick Perry not only opposes a border fence, but
he signed the bill to make Texas the first state in the nation to grant in-state
tuition discounts to illegal immigrants.''

It wasn't clear how many calls were made. A Romney official said the messages
''weren't widespread robocalls'' and that they stemmed from organizing a live
conference call with the sheriff. People were phoned to join the call, and those
who didn't answer were left the automated message.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 13, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Policy On Deporting Used Unevenly

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1335 words


A new Obama administration policy to avoid deportations of illegal immigrants
who are not criminals has been applied very unevenly across the country and has
led to vast confusion both in immigrant communities and among agents charged
with carrying it out.

Since June, when the policy was unveiled, frustrated lawyers and advocates have
seen a steady march of deportations of immigrants with no criminal record and
with extensive roots in the United States, who seemed to fit the
administration's profile of those who should be allowed to remain.

But at the same time, in other cases, immigrants on the brink of expulsion saw
their deportations halted at the last minute, sometimes after public protests.
In some instances, immigration prosecutors acted, with no prodding from
advocates, to abandon deportations of immigrants with strong ties to this
country whose only violation was their illegal status.

For President Obama, the political stakes in the new policy are high. White
House officials have concluded that there is no chance before next year's
presidential election to pass the immigration overhaul that Mr. Obama supports,
which would include paths to legal status for illegal immigrants. But
immigration authorities have sustained a fast pace of deportations, removing
nearly 400,000 foreigners in each of the last three years. With Latino
communities taking the brunt of those deportations, Latino voters are
increasingly disappointed with Mr. Obama. White House officials hope the new
policy will ease some of the pressure on Latinos, by steering enforcement toward
gang members and convicts and away from students, soldiers and families of
American citizens.

In a June 17 memorandum, John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, laid out more than two dozen factors that its agents and lawyers
should weigh when deciding whether to exercise prosecutorial discretion to
dismiss a deportation. The memo called for ''particular care and consideration''
for veterans and active-duty troops, elderly immigrants and minors, and those
brought here illegally as children. In August, the homeland security secretary,
Janet Napolitano, announced additional measures to put Mr. Morton's guidelines
into effect, including a review of all deportation cases -- about 300,000
--currently in the immigration courts, with the aim of closing cases that do not
meet the administration's priorities.

In a report released Wednesday, the American Immigration Lawyers Association and
the American Immigration Council collected 252 cases from lawyers across the
country who had asked Mr. Morton's agency, known as ICE, to exercise
prosecutorial discretion to spare immigrants from deportation. ''The
overwhelming conclusion is that most ICE offices have not changed their
practices since the issuance of these new directives,'' the report found.

''This is a classic example of leadership saying one thing and the rank and file
doing another,'' said Gregory Chen, director of advocacy for the lawyers
association. The report found that training for immigration officers on the new
guidelines had been lacking. Officials at the Homeland Security Department
acknowledge the policy's slow start. Mr. Morton's June guidelines were followed
by a three-month lull, when resistance grew among agents in the field. In late
September, Ms. Napolitano and Mr. Morton went on the offensive to press the
policy, and since then Mr. Morton has been on the road inaugurating training
programs.

''Like any major change in enforcement policy, this is a work in progress,'' Mr.
Morton said by telephone from Miami, where he was joining in a training session.
''I have been handling much of the initial explanation myself, because I feel so
strongly about it.''

Officials say they need time to transform federal agencies accustomed to
cut-and-dried immigration enforcement, with any illegal immigrant a target for
deportation. Ms. Napolitano says immigration agents must become more like other
police officers, using ''sound prosecutorial practice'' to follow priorities.
Those priorities are to deport convicted criminals, serial violators of
immigration law and recent border crossers, officials said.

The priorities did not apply for Neida Lavayen, 46, an American citizen in
Elizabeth, N.J. After a three-year courtship, she had planned on Sept. 23 to
marry Ruben Quinteros, an illegal immigrant from Uruguay. Mr. Quinteros, 43, had
come legally to the United States, then stayed past his time limit. But once he
and Ms. Lavayen married, he would be eligible for a permanent resident's green
card as the spouse of a citizen.

Eight days before the wedding, Mr. Quinteros was arrested by immigration agents.
His lawyer, Heather Benno, argued that he should benefit from prosecutorial
discretion, since he was days away from resolving his immigration status. He had
no criminal record, had paid taxes and had provided vital support for his
fiancee, who suffered domestic abuse in her first marriage.

Ms. Benno's motions were denied. Ms. Lavayen found a pastor to marry the couple
in the detention center, but immigration agents declined to release Mr.
Quinteros for a few hours so he could go with Ms. Lavayen to get the marriage
license, since registrars would not issue one without him. They were not able to
marry, and Mr. Quinteros was deported Oct. 27.

''I never thought I would fall in love again and have dreams again and live such
a beautiful romance,'' Ms. Lavayen said in a telephone conversation, pausing
often to cry. ''How did my country take away my happiness?''

By contrast, a student from Germany received good news that he had not asked
for. Manuel Bartsch, now 24, was brought to the United States when he was 10
years old, then remained without documents. He stuck to his studies and is now
nearing graduation from a private university in Ohio. After a legal fight in
2006, the immigration agency suspended Mr. Bartsch's deportation, said his
lawyer, David Leopold. On Nov. 3, the agency surprised Mr. Bartsch by
terminating his deportation case entirely.

Like others whose deportations are canceled under the new policy, Mr. Bartsch
will remain in limbo without any positive immigration status, Mr. Leopold said.
But he will be able to apply for a work permit, an identity document that can
open many doors.

''Hats off to ICE in the field for following the directives,'' Mr. Leopold said.

Outspoken resistance to the policy has come from Chris Crane, the president of
the American Federation of Government Employees' union local that represents ICE
deportation agents. In testimony last month before the immigration subcommittee
of the House Judiciary Committee, Mr. Crane said that Mr. Morton's guidelines
were too complex and ''cannot be effectively applied in the field.''

Rather than adding flexibility, Mr. Crane said, the guidelines ''take away
officers' discretion and establish a system that mandates that the nation's most
fundamental immigration laws are not enforced.''

Still, uncertainty about the policy among agents appeared more widespread than
outright rejection did. That was the experience of Shamir Ali, a 24-year-old
student born in Bangladesh, who was detained Oct. 19 when the police raided a
Miami car rental agency where he worked, looking for someone else. Mr. Ali
seemed to fit within the discretion guidelines: he had no criminal record and
had been brought by his parents to the United States when he was 7. But
immigration agents denied his first requests to be spared from deportation.

Then student groups staged protests on Mr. Ali's behalf in eight cities. On Oct.
28, agents freed Mr. Ali on an order of supervision, also allowing him to apply
for a work permit. For Mr. Ali, like Mr. Bartsch, that permit would be
life-changing, since it would allow him to obtain a driver's license and to
enroll at resident rates in a state college.

Mr. Ali said he felt deeply grateful to the immigration agency. But he wondered:
''If I didn't have all that support, what would have happened to me?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Shamir Ali, 24, faced deportation but was later freed under a
new administration policy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEG ROUSSOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A27)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Perry Gains Endorsement From an Arizona Sheriff Tough on Immigration

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Ashley Parker contributed reporting from Miami.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 910 words


MANCHESTER, N.H. -- Rick Perry is polling at only the single digits in New
Hampshire, and the question on this Tuesday was: Can a hard-nosed Arizona
sheriff who was sued by the Justice Department and is known for aggressive
pursuit of illegal immigrants -- and for making inmates wear pink underwear --
help him gain traction six weeks before the primary?

Once atop the polls, Mr. Perry, the Texas governor, has sunk to second-tier
status, a decline partly attributed, in addition to weak debate performances, to
rivals' painting him as soft on illegal immigration. That criticism has largely
focused on his support of a plan that allows some children of illegal immigrants
to qualify for in-state tuition at Texas public universities.

But at several appearances here on Tuesday, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa
County, Ariz., praised Mr. Perry as the best man in the Republican presidential
race and the staunchest defender of the United States' southern boundary. He
said Mr. Perry had demonstrated his credentials by deploying Texas Rangers and
other law-enforcement agencies to stop illegal crossings at the Mexican border.

''He's out there right now,'' said Mr. Arpaio, who unabashedly calls himself the
''toughest sheriff'' in the country. ''He's not just talking; he's doing the
job. He has a lot of resources that he sent to the border.''

Mr. Arpaio's appearance highlighted how the immigration issue is again at the
forefront of the Republican nominating fight. Newt Gingrich, now a front-runner
in the field, warned his opponents Tuesday not to make an issue of his recent
comments suggesting a softer approach on immigration, while in Florida, Mitt
Romney promoted his endorsement by Cuban-Americans, one of whom expressed
concerns about Mr. Romney's stance on the issue.

Mr. Arpaio, whose headquarters are in Phoenix, had been courted by Republican
candidates including Herman Cain and Representative Michele Bachmann. But he was
far from the favorite of everyone in the crowd -- at least those at the Perry
campaign's third stop on Tuesday, at the New Hampshire Institute of Politics at
St. Anselm College.

''Someone booing out there?'' Mr. Arpaio, a Massachusetts native, asked as he
took the microphone. ''Yes,'' several people answered. ''Uh, O.K.,'' he replied.

It was also clear that Mr. Perry and Mr. Arpaio did not know each other well.
The sheriff said he had only just met the governor, though they had spoken on
the phone before.

Mr. Perry, for his part, introduced him here by pronouncing his name
''a-ROPP-eh-yay,'' which was not close. (It is are-PIE-oh.) ''Sheriff Joe!'' Mr.
Perry quickly added.

Later, Mr. Perry made a minor gaffe by misstating the voting age, which is 18.

''Those of you that will be 21 by November the 12th, I ask for your support and
your vote,'' he said, as some in the audience chuckled. ''Those of you who won't
be, just work hard.''

In an effort to burnish his immigration credentials, Mr. Perry declared that he
would back a federal policy ''to detain and to deport every illegal alien that
we apprehend.''

An aide later made clear that the governor was suggesting that people arrested
or detained -- and later found to be undocumented -- be expelled from the
country after an expedited hearing.

It was far from clear whether the sheriff's endorsement would aid Mr. Perry
here. A WMUR Granite State Poll of likely Republican voters recently found that
only 4 percent considered immigration the most important issue. It may be more
significant in Iowa, where Mr. Perry is investing more time and money.

Paul Scopa, who came to Mr. Perry's appearance here, said he doubted that Mr.
Arpaio's backing would have any real effect. Mr. Scopa said he was not keen on
Mr. Perry because of his debate stumbles. ''Put him under the gun, and the man
does not impress,'' he said.

Mr. Arpaio is also a polarizing figure. Last year, the Justice Department filed
a lawsuit against him for not cooperating with an investigation into whether the
Maricopa County Sheriff's Department is systematically violating the rights of
Hispanics. It was the first time in a generation, according to officials, that
the federal government filed suit to force a law enforcement agency to cooperate
with such an investigation. The sheriff has called it an effort to intimidate
him and has said he does not engage in racial profiling.

In Florida, Mr. Romney noted the endorsement of a trio of influential
Cuban-American leaders, but one, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, said she
did not agree with Mr. Romney on the issue of immigration. He has taken a more
pointed tone recently in criticizing candidates like Mr. Gingrich who would
support citizenship for law-abiding immigrants who have been in the United
States for years. But Ms. Ros-Lehtinen said she was willing to overlook that in
these tumultuous economic times.

''I'm never going to find a candidate with whom I agree 100 percent of time with
100 percent of the issues,'' she said, ''but I think the election hinges on the
economy. I don't agree with Governor Romney's position on immigration, but I
agree with him solidly on the economy, and for me, that's the driving force in
this election.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 1, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article Wednesday about a campaign trip to New Hampshire by Gov. Rick Perry
of Texas misstated the name of a college he visited. It is St. Anselm College,
not St. Anselm's.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry campaigned Tuesday at a diner in Amherst, N.H.
Later, he spoke at St. Anselm's College, where some booed Sheriff Joe Arpaio, a
supporter. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

So Much for the Nativists

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 577 words


Here's a Capitol riddle for you: Representative Lamar Smith, one of the most
reflexively anti-immigrant hard-liners in Congress, is sponsoring a bill to
flood the agriculture sector with up to half-a-million visas for guest workers.
Understand why and you're well on your way to unpacking the nation's
dysfunctional relationship with undocumented immigrants.

Mr. Smith, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
has a bill to require every employer in the country to use E-Verify, the federal
hiring database, and fire the workers it flags as unauthorized.

He says it will give American jobs back to Americans. But it has angered
small-business owners, who know a job-killing regulation when they see one. And
it has enraged the farm industry, where more than half of the work force is
undocumented. Thus the need for Mr. Smith's second bill, the American Specialty
Agriculture Act.

A well-designed agricultural guest worker program is not a bad idea. Even when
unemployment is above 9 percent, Americans don't want to stoop in the fields
anymore.

But this is an awful guest worker bill. It would create a system that is far
worse than the current cumbersome guest worker program. It would let growers pay
even lower wages and weaken the rules on providing workers with housing and
reimbursing their travel expenses. Growers would get a break on having to
certify that they tried to hire Americans first. Oversight would shift from the
Labor Department, with its pesky insistence on wage-and-hour protections, to the
Department of Agriculture, which has never run a program like this before.

The growers' rebellion against E-Verify, and Mr. Smith's contortions to buy them
off, is further proof that the country cannot live without immigrant labor -- no
matter what the nativists may claim. That is why, even as Congress has abdicated
its duty to fix immigration and left the states to run amok on enforcement,
there is still an abundance of visa-related bills on Capitol Hill.

Representative Raul Labrador, an Idaho Republican, and Zoe Lofgren, a Democrat
of California, both have sensible bills to promote the hiring of foreign college
graduates in science, technology, engineering and mathematics -- the workers
coveted by high-tech employers.

In the trivial category, Senators Charles Schumer, a Democrat of New York, and
Mike Lee, a Republican of Utah, want to give visas to foreigners who buy
expensive houses. Mr. Lee has another bill to allow guest dairy workers to stay
in the United States year-round.

Representative Jason Chaffetz, a Utah Republican, has co-sponsored a bill with
Mr. Smith to speed the entry of high-tech workers by eliminating the per-country
quotas on employment-based green cards that force Ph.D.'s in countries like
India to wait years for visas. There are also bills to let in Cuban baseball
players, Tibetan refugees and the children of Filipino veterans of World War II.

There's one group that badly needs and deserves visas that no one seems to want
to go to bat for. They are the 11 million undocumented immigrants who are
already living here and helping make things work. If they had a deal -- pay
fines, learn English, get to the back of the immigration line and, meanwhile,
get back to work -- the economic benefits would be enormous. We don't expect Mr.
Smith to admit that. But we would like to hear a lot more from President Obama,
and others, about why real immigration reform is so important for America.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Immigration Audits Increase, Some Employers Pay a High Price

BYLINE: By ADRIANA GARDELLA

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1297 words


David Cox was at his desk in September 2009, when his receptionist announced an
unexpected visitor, a special agent from Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
also known as ICE. Mr. Cox is chief executive of L. E. Cooke Company, a
fourth-generation, family-owned nursery in Visalia, Calif., that grows deciduous
trees and shrubs. The agent handed Mr. Cox a letter and informed him he had
three days to produce I-9 employment-eligibility forms for all current
employees. Mr. Cox said the agent was ''pleasant and nonthreatening,'' but he
noticed she carried a gun.

L. E. Cook was one of 1,444 businesses to receive an introduction to ICE's
stepped-up worksite enforcement program in 2009 -- almost three times the number
audited in 2008. Last year, 2,196 businesses were audited. An ICE representative
said the agency did not categorize audits by business type and that the law
applied across industries.

''Any company is at risk at any given time,'' said Leon Versfeld, an immigration
lawyer in Kansas City, Mo. In one prominent case, American Apparel, the clothing
manufacturer, was forced to terminate 1,800 undocumented workers after a 2009
audit. Chipotle Mexican Grill, the restaurant chain, has let go hundreds of
workers since its audit began last year.

While the administration of George W. Bush focused on headline-making raids that
resulted in arrests of immigrant workers, the Obama administration has gone
after employers with ICE's I-9 audits on the theory that employers who hire
unauthorized workers create the demand that drives most illegal immigration.

In addition, the Social Security Administration has resumed sending ''no-match''
letters after a three-year hiatus. The letters, which alert employers that
information on an employee's W-2 form does not match information on file with
the Social Security Administration, had been halted in 2007. The main purpose is
ostensibly to ensure that employee Social Security accounts are credited
properly, but the letters can also be used by ICE to show that an employer had
reason to believe an employee might not have documentation.

''The master narrative of immigration reform is being crafted around the notion
of unscrupulous employers seeking cheap labor,'' said Craig Regelbrugge, a
lawyer and lobbyist with the American Nursery and Landscape Association.

Unscrupulous employers exist, Mr. Regelbrugge said, but more often he sees
business owners who are just trying to follow the law. When a new hire produces
seemingly legitimate forms of documentation required by the I-9 form, the
employer must accept them. (To refuse could expose the owner to charges of
employment discrimination.) ''The employer is not required to be a forensics
expert,'' said Monte Lake, an immigration lawyer in Washington.

The upshot of the more aggressive enforcement is that even employers who have
followed the rules can be devastated by an audit that compels them to fire
valuable, long-time employees.

The I-9 audit of Mr. Cox's nursery revealed that 26 of his 99 employees were not
authorized to work in the United States. Because ICE determined he had acted
reasonably in hiring them, Mr. Cox was not fined or held criminally liable. But
after confirming that the 26 employees could not produce authentic documents, he
was forced to fire them. All had been with him for five to 10 years, and he lost
half of his budding crew, a highly specialized team that grafts trees. ''Telling
them was probably the worst day of my life,'' he said. ''I don't just sit at a
desk here, I'm actually out in the field harvesting with them.''

Mr. Cox said he was lucky the audit hit midrecession, after he had already
reduced his work force and inventory. Still, he estimates that his 2009 expenses
climbed 10 percent as a result of the terminations. And, despite California's
high unemployment rate, finding replacement employees has proved challenging.
''I've gone through more workers this year than I have in the past 10 years
combined,'' Mr. Cox said.

While most such workers earn the $8-an-hour minimum wage in California, Mr. Cox
said he generally paid $8.90 an hour for a 50-hour week. The terminated budding
crew workers made $10 an hour. Compensation includes state-mandated overtime of
time and a half, health insurance and two weeks' paid vacation. ''If I raised
the wage,'' he said, ''I'd have to shut my doors.''

Meanwhile, after an audit, ICE does not round up the affected workers for
deportation. That meant Mr. Cox's former workers were free to seek employment
elsewhere -- including with his competitors. Mr. Cox said that he knew through
his remaining workers that the terminated employees were all working in the
area.

After the audit, Mr. Cox started using E-Verify, a federal program that lets
employers confirm the authenticity of a job applicant's Social Security and
green card numbers electronically. Although the program's use is mandatory in
some states, its reliability has been debated, and it remains voluntary in
California. A bill in Congress that would require all American employers to use
the program could go to a vote this month.

The owner of another agricultural business, this one on the East Coast,
requested anonymity because he was currently undergoing an I-9 audit that had
resulted in the loss of half of his work force. He said the employees he was
forced to terminate were 25 to 40 years old and had been in the United States
for five to 10 years. Many were raising children born here. ''They're all
staying here and working for someone else,'' he said.

After the terminations, the East Coast owner said he was struggling to get
replacement workers up to speed. He has endured a substantial increase in
customer complaints -- to 30 a week from about three -- and has reduced his 2011
sales goals by 15 percent. The terminated employees included members of his
management team who earned $12 to $15 an hour. He paid them all their vacation
pay, and said he was bothered by the perception that employers like him were
unscrupulous and treated undocumented workers unfairly. ''We did everything by
the book,'' he said. ''There were a lot of tears here.''

While the human side of the issue is compelling, employers must comply with the
law, said Mr. Lake, the immigration lawyer. There is no way to avoid an ICE
audit, but establishing and maintaining the right procedures can help you
survive one. Mr. Lake recommends that employers review their practices and seek
professional assistance if they are not knowledgeable about legal requirements.
Sloppy record-keeping can lead to fines for technical violations.

If a review reveals incomplete I-9 forms, employers should fill in the missing
information and initial it with the date and time it was added. Mr. Lake advises
random checks to ensure that employees are completing the forms. Be sure to
retain I-9 forms for the legally required period of time -- the longer of three
years or one year after the employee leaves the company. Business owners should
understand their obligations upon receiving a no-match letter. Mr. Lake advises
employers who receive these letters to meet one-on-one with the designated
worker to ensure that a clerical error did not cause the confusion, confirming
that names are spelled correctly and no numbers have been transposed.

Assuming there is no mistake, Mr. Lake said the owner must instruct the worker
to pursue the issue with the Social Security Administration and report back
within a ''reasonable time.'' Document your actions and treat all workers the
same, Mr. Lake said. If an employee reports that everything is fine, and you get
another no-match letter the next year, you know it is not fine. After that, Mr.
Lake said, there is no good answer if ICE conducts an audit and asks, ''Why
didn't you take action the second time?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  David Cox of L. E Cooke, a family-owned nursery in Visalia,
Calif. Firing 26 employees after an immigration check ''was probably the worst
day of my life,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 16, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Guest Farmworkers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 217 words


To the Editor:

''Better Lives for Mexicans Cut Allure of Going North'' (''Immigration Upended''
series, front page, July 6), about diminished Mexican emigration, suggests that
changes in the H-2A visa have made it easier for farmers and immigrant workers
to find one another. But while it works O.K. for farmers, it does little to
protect immigrant workers.

Guest workers' restricted status deprives them of bargaining power, which
encourages employers to prefer guest workers over United States citizens and
keeps their wages low. Guest workers may return annually for many years but
never gain the right to vote or fully integrate into their communities.

The United States is a nation of immigrants, not a nation of guest workers.
While the H-2A visa serves roughly 50,000 workers a year, the majority of our
nation's 2.5 million farmworkers are undocumented. Congress needs to find a
sensible solution for agricultural workers by providing undocumented farmworkers
the opportunity to earn legal immigration status.

The best solution is to pass AgJOBS, a labor-management compromise that would
protect workers and address growers' frustrations about H-2A costs and
paperwork, while providing undocumented farmworkers a path to citizenship.

BRUCE GOLDSTEIN President, Farmworker Justice Washington, July 6, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 9, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Lawmaker Offers Plan to Lure Migrant Farm Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 659 words


A leading Republican lawmaker has proposed creating a program to bring 500,000
foreign migrant farm workers to the United States each year, responding to an
outcry this summer from American farmers who said shortages of legally
authorized labor were imperiling their crops.

The lawmaker, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the chairman of the House
Judiciary Committee, introduced his farm guest worker bill late on Wednesday and
held a hearing on it in the House on Thursday. He is proposing a thorough
overhaul of the existing guest worker program for agriculture, known as H-2A,
which is shunned by most growers as too bureaucratic and costly for their
fast-changing labor needs in fields and orchards.

Instead, farmers have turned to some 1.1 million illegal immigrants now
estimated to be working in agriculture.

Mr. Smith offered his proposal after a bill he introduced in June, designed to
prevent illegal immigrants from gaining jobs in this country, generated a wave
of resistance from farmers. That bill would require all employers nationwide to
use a federal electronic system, known as E-Verify, to confirm that new hires
are legally authorized to work here.

Although Mr. Smith's E-Verify bill includes a three-year grace period before it
would take effect for agriculture, growers -- including many Republicans --
still balked, saying they would not support it unless Congress provided a supply
of legal immigrants for farms.

Mr. Smith's guest worker proposal adds an important piece to the Republican
strategy for the angrily contested issue of immigration as Washington moves into
campaign season. He framed his plan as an alternative to granting legal status
to illegal immigrants already in the country, the approach President Obama
supports.

Mr. Smith said his program would ''provide growers who want to do the right
thing with a reliable source of legal labor'' and would also ''protect the
livelihoods of American workers and the rights of guest workers.''

The bill drew divided reaction from growers' organizations. Groups from North
and South Carolina and Georgia, particularly those representing farmers who have
tried to work with the H-2A program, liked the proposal.

Many major farm organizations, including the California Farm Bureau Federation,
said Mr. Smith's program failed to meet their needs.

At the hearing, Chalmers R. Carr III, a South Carolina peach grower who is
president of USA Farmers, a group of employers using H-2A workers, said Mr.
Smith's bill ''positively addresses most every major issue that has been raised
by the agricultural industry for many years.''

Mr. Smith's proposal, for a new program he is calling H-2C, would shift
management of the guest worker program from the Department of Labor, where he
said farmers face a ''culture of hostility,'' to the Department of Agriculture.
It would require only that employers attest that they had offered jobs to
American workers, removing time-consuming procedural hurdles that farmers said
had not helped attract Americans to strenuous migrant farm work.

It would allow binding arbitration in guest worker contracts, which he said
would reduce ''frivolous litigation.''

Many farm bureaus, however, are throwing their support behind a competing
proposal by another Republican, Representative Dan Lungren of California. In an
interview, Mr. Lungren said he would introduce his bill in the House next week.
He said his talks with California growers had ''proved to me you can't get where
we need to by reforming the H-2A program.''

Under his program, foreign migrant workers would not be tied to specific farmers
as they are under Mr. Smith's plan, but they would be issued work documents
allowing them to come to the United States for 10 months a year to work for any
agricultural employer.

With no provisions to legalize illegal immigrants, both proposals, which are
rejected by farm worker groups, are expected to face strong opposition in the
Democratic-controlled Senate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Lamar Smith proposed a guest worker plan.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 15, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Transfers Delay Release Of Detainees, Report Finds

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 783 words


Despite assurances that they would curb the practice of transferring detained
immigrants to distant detention centers around the country, federal immigration
officials continue to move hundreds of thousands of people a year, impeding the
detainees' access to lawyers and extending their time in custody, a human rights
organization said in a report released on Tuesday.

The report by Human Rights Watch, which analyzed 12 years of federal data,
acknowledged that after years in which detainee transfers sharply increased, the
numbers started dropping in 2009 when the Obama administration announced a
comprehensive overhaul of the detention system. Immigration officials have said
that changing the sprawling detention system will take time.

But Human Rights Watch contended that Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the
federal agency that oversees the detention system, was not moving fast enough.

In 2009 immigration officials ''began making promises to reduce transfers, and
they've made those promises repeatedly in a variety of contexts while continuing
to drag their feet,'' said Alison Parker, director of the United States program
of Human Rights Watch, in an e-mail. The immigration agency, she wrote,
''seemingly acknowledges it has a problem, while in actuality continues to
operate a dysfunctional detention system that cannot operate without multiple
transfers.''

The report said that from 1998 through 2010, some 1.1 million immigrants, or
about 40 percent of all detainees, were transferred at least once, and 46
percent of those were transferred at least twice. About 3,400 were transferred
at least 10 times, the report said, with one person moved 66 times during 13
months in 2008 and 2009.

''One transfer is enough to wreak havoc with a detainee's case in immigration
court,'' Ms. Parker said. ''Multiple transfers exacerbate the problems of
separation from attorneys, evidence, witnesses and family members.'' The human
rights researchers found that detainees who were transferred spent three times
longer in detention than others.

Human Rights Watch found that after climbing steadily from 1998 to 2005, the
number of transfers suddenly skyrocketed, rising to a peak of 405,544 in the
2009 fiscal year, up from 157,560 in 2006.

But according to projections based on six months of data, the number of
transfers dropped in 2010 by about 6 percent, to about 380,000.

Ms. Parker said her group was not confident that the decrease was ''a sign of a
permanent shift,'' contending that despite the Obama administration's stated
intentions to reduce transfers, officials have never issued any definitive
policy change.

Gillian M. Christensen, a spokeswoman at Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said Tuesday that the agency had drafted -- but not yet issued -- a new policy
intended to reduce the transfer of detainees who have ties to a particular city
or community.

''By keeping detainees, as often as possible, near the place of apprehension,
ICE hopes to minimize disruptions to families, legal services and immigration
proceedings,'' she said, adding that a reduction in transfers would help cut
detention costs and reduce delays in immigration cases.

Ms. Christensen said the agency would not release a draft of the policy because
it had not yet been formally issued.

Immigration detention relies heavily on private prisons and county jails, far
from many detainees' families and advocates. The Obama administration's planned
overhaul, announced in August 2009, seeks to upgrade existing centers, and
provide a less penal setting for immigrant detainees, with better federal
oversight.

The plan is also meant to improve the system's efficiency by increasing the
number of beds near big cities where the nation's immigrant populations are
concentrated, reducing the need to transfer detainees to places with available
beds.

Immigration officials have said they expect demand for bed space in jails around
the country to increase in coming months and years, in part because of Secure
Communities, a new government enforcement program that improves the
identification of illegal immigrants and has already contributed to a surge in
deportations.

Human Rights Watch acknowledged that some transfers are ''inevitable,''
sometimes to avoid overcrowding. But the group insisted that transfers could be
better regulated. ''There are few, if any, checks on the decisions of officials
to move detainees,'' the report said.

''Transfers do not need to stop entirely in order for ICE to uphold U.S. and
human rights law,'' the report said. ''They merely need to be curtailed through
the establishment of enforceable guidelines, regulations and reasonable
legislative restraints imposed by the U.S. Congress.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 28, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Political Links And a Jail Bid In North Jersey

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words


Three weeks ago, Essex County, N.J., announced that it was seeking a company to
run a 450-bed immigrant detention center, hoping to take advantage of a
federally financed initiative to set up such facilities with better supervision
and medical care.

The county said the contracting process was open to any company. But behind the
scenes, it appears that officials have a clear favorite: Community Education
Centers, which has a checkered record in immigrant detention but counts one of
Gov. Chris Christie's closest confidants as a senior vice president. The
company's executives are also political backers of the county executive, Joseph
N. DiVincenzo Jr., a prominent ally of Mr. Christie.

The county's bidding rules specified that visitors to the detention center greet
detainees ''in the gymnasium'' -- a requirement that seemed to point to an
existing facility, Delaney Hall in Newark, operated by Community Education
Centers. Bidders were given 23 days to submit applications, an unusually short
deadline for a multimillion-dollar contract.

Community Education Centers itself seemed to act as if its selection were a done
deal. The deadline for bids is Thursday, but the company posted advertisements
on its Web site weeks ago to fill five jobs working with immigrant detainees at
the facility.

And this week, federal immigration officials and Community Education staff
members gave tours of Delaney Hall to advocates for immigrants, telling them
that it would probably be the new facility. The advocates were not shown other
sites.

Questioned about the selection process, Essex officials said the bidding was
fair and open to any company. A spokesman for Mr. Christie said the governor's
office had no involvement in the contract.

Federal and local officials have not indicated the size of the contract for the
winning bidder, but it appears the total could amount to $8 million to $10
million annually.

Government at all levels has pushed to privatize prisons and detention centers
in recent decades, trying to save money and improve services. The federal
government, which has been apprehending a growing number of immigrants, plans to
use private companies to help overhaul a detention system that includes a
patchwork of facilities.

But privatized prisons and detention centers have at times became ensnared in
scandals over mistreatment of their charges.

In fact, Community Education Centers, based in West Caldwell, N.J., was
seriously penalized in 2008 under an earlier contract to house immigrants at
Delaney Hall. After an immigrant escaped, officials responded by removing the
remaining 120 detainees from the company's supervision and placing them in a
public jail.

Immigrant detention centers typically house immigrants, both legal and illegal,
who are facing deportation because of visa violations or criminal convictions.

With a shortage of beds in the Northeast, the federal Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency announced plans last year to house hundreds of detainees in
Essex County. Officials said the detainees would have better access to lawyers
and consulates, enabling the authorities to curb the transfer of detainees to
distant places like Texas.

Community Education's senior vice president is William J. Palatucci, Mr.
Christie's political mentor and former law partner, and one of the state's
well-known Republican strategists. Mr. Palatucci was a major fund-raiser for
George W. Bush's 2000 presidential campaign, and recommended to the Bush
administration that it nominate Mr. Christie for United States attorney for New
Jersey, a job he held from 2002 to 2009.

Community Education and its executives are major supporters of Mr. DiVincenzo,
one of the most powerful politicians in North Jersey.

Community Education employees, including senior executives and several of their
family members, have donated a total of $30,600 to Mr. DiVincenzo's campaigns
since 2006, according to disclosure records.

Mr. DiVincenzo, the county executive since 2002, is also influential in Trenton.
Though he is a Democrat, he has developed a close relationship with Mr.
Christie, a Republican, who swore him in for his third term. Mr. DiVincenzo has
said he agrees with 95 percent of what the governor is doing, and has broken
ranks with his party to support Mr. Christie's efforts to curb the pay and
benefits of public employees.

Mr. Christie's press secretary, Michael Drewniak, said, ''There is no basis
whatsoever to bring the governor into this and doing so sounds like a total
stretch.''

Essex County's counsel, James R. Paganelli, said neither Community Education nor
any other company had the inside track for the contract.

''We have a public bid looking for anybody who thinks they can provide these
services,'' Mr. Paganelli said. ''I hope that this bid is as competitive as we
can make it.''

Mr. Paganelli said he expected as many as 30 companies to express interest, and
he declined to speak about any bidder in particular.

A Community Education spokesman, Christopher Greeder, said any claim that the
company had ''received favored status from Essex County is unfounded.''

Mr. Greeder said Delaney Hall was fully accredited and had housed more than
80,000 individuals since its opening in 2000.

Asked why the company had advertised for jobs at the detention center before it
knew whether it had won the contract, he said: ''As a private company, we often
advertise for positions in advance of any contract award. We want to be
prepared.''

He added that there was no connection between campaign contributions given by
company executives and government contracts.

For their part, federal officials said they were already making plans to send
immigrants to Delaney Hall because Essex specifically mentioned it in its
proposal to the federal government. They were not aware that the county was
considering other facilities, said Gillian M. Christensen, a spokeswoman for the
immigration agency.

Immigrant advocates called the contracting process severely flawed.

Amy Gottlieb, director of the Immigrant Rights Program at the American Friends
Service Committee, said, ''The idea that a company can advertise a job before
they have the contract is offensive, because the stakes are so high.''

Although the details are still being made final, Immigration and Customs
Enforcement plans to assign 800 immigrants to the Essex jail, which currently
holds about 500, and plans to place an additional 450 detainees in Delaney Hall,
which is nearby, Ms. Christensen said.

To solicit bids, Essex County advertised in The Star-Ledger of Newark and posted
the requirements on a county Web site, following standard procedure, according
to Mr. Paganelli, the county counsel. He said county officials did not actively
solicit companies to bid.

By comparison, the New York State Office of General Services said that when the
state issued contracts for specialized services, it advertised in multiple
publications, posted the requirements online and contacted competing firms that
perform similar services.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: About 500 immigrant detainees are in the Essex County jail, and
the county is seeking a company to run a center for 450 more. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 29, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Company With Political Ties Is Sole Bidder on Jail Contract

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 362 words


Officials in Essex County, N.J., announced Thursday that only one company had
bid on a contract to run a 450-bed immigration detention center that federal
officials would like to turn into a model for such facilities across the
country.

The sole bidder was an affiliate of Community Education Centers, whose
executives have close political ties to Gov. Chris Christie and the Essex County
executive, Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr.

The New York Times reported on Thursday that the county had appeared to favor
Community Education in the process of issuing the contract, though its record in
housing immigrant detainees was troubled.

The county had told the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency that the
company was likely to get the contract, and that other bidders had not been
actively sought, as they often are for government contracts.

The Essex County contract is likely to be worth $8 million to $10 million
annually. County officials said the contracting process was fair and open to any
company. Mr. Christie's office said the governor had played no role in the
process.

The county's counsel had said he expected as many as 30 companies to express
interest in bidding. But some advocacy groups for immigrants had criticized the
contracting process, saying it was heavily tilted toward Community Education.

And on Thursday, the deadline for bidding, the county said only the Community
Education affiliate had submitted a bid.

Community Education and its executives have been major donors to Mr. DiVincenzo,
the county executive. Community Education's senior vice president, William J.
Palatucci, is a confidant of Mr. Christie, who is an ally of Mr. DiVincenzo.

Even before the bidding deadline on the contract, Community Education was
telling advocacy groups that Delaney Hall, the company's Newark facility, was
likely to be selected as the site for the immigration detention center. This
week, the company and federal immigration officials even gave immigrant
advocates a tour of the facility.

Community Education housed immigrant detainees in Delaney Hall in 2008, but the
government penalized the company and abruptly ended the program after a detainee
escaped from custody.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 16, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Reversing Course, Officials in New Jersey Cancel One-Bid Immigrant Jail Deal

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 769 words


NEWARK -- In a sharp turnaround, officials in Essex County, N.J., announced
Monday that they would not accept the sole bid on a contract to run a 450-bed
immigrant detention center after questions were raised about the transparency
and fairness of the bidding process.

The lone bidder was an affiliate of Community Education Centers, a private
detention company whose executives have close political ties to Gov. Chris
Christie and the top elected official in Essex County, Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr.

The county appeared to give special treatment to Community Education, though its
record in housing immigrant detainees is checkered. After The New York Times
reported on the contracting process last month, Senator Frank R. Lautenberg of
New Jersey wrote to Immigration and Customs Enforcement to ask senior officials
to review the deal.

In a telephone call Monday afternoon, James R. Paganelli, Essex County's
counsel, said the county would put out another request for bids in the fall to
attract more bidders and better terms. He called it ''a business decision'' and
said the allegations of improprieties played no role. ''We want to foster
competition, because that makes everybody sharpen their pencils and we hope to
get better rates from people,'' he said.

The decision appeared to have been made suddenly. At noon, Mr. DiVincenzo held a
news conference, which had been canceled once, during which he defended the
bidding process and praised Community Education's performance fulfilling other
government contracts.

In his Newark office, crowded with reporters and uniformed law enforcement
officers, Mr. DiVincenzo announced that he had signed an agreement with federal
authorities to house 1,250 immigrant detainees in Essex County for roughly $50
million a year, a deal that had been long in the works.

Immigration officials had planned to make the detention center a model for other
facilities across the country, but Mr. DiVincenzo was eager to highlight what
the deal would mean for his constituents.

''I had to go out there and to find new ways, innovative ways, to be able to
bring in dollars,'' he said. ''One of the ways we've been able to do that, to
keep the taxes low, is by bringing in things like this.''

Reporters pressed Mr. DiVincenzo and his staff on possible shortcomings of the
bidding process: The county did not actively seek out other bidders, a common
practice in government contracts, and its 23-day deadline on the
multimillion-dollar bid was unusually short.

Mr. DiVincenzo and his senior aides took turns defending the process -- ''I
think it was fair and open,'' Mr. Paganelli said -- and said they were still
reviewing the lone bid. They had details ''on a lot of different levels'' to
sort out, Mr. Paganelli added.

Just after 4 p.m., however, Mr. DiVincenzo's office announced that it was not
satisfied with the terms of the sole bid. It would be rejected and a fresh
request for others would be issued in the coming weeks, Mr. Paganelli told The
Times in a phone call. A spokesman for the office explained later that despite
the agreement with the federal government, the county had still been reviewing
the lone bid and had determined that afternoon that the terms were not
acceptable.

Gillian M. Christensen, a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
said federal authorities were caught off guard. The county's decision could
require a wholesale renegotiation of the contract, she said.

The about-face will not end the county's relationship with Community Education.
The company's nonprofit affiliate already has a separate county contract to
house hundreds of inmates in a Newark building, Delaney Hall.

That contract expires in December, and Mr. Paganelli said the county could house
the new immigrant detainees in Delaney Hall beginning in October. He said he
hoped to have in place a new contract, using Delaney Hall or another
institution, before the old contract expires.

Community Education has ties to several prominent New Jersey officials. John J.
Clancy, its chief executive, has donated to Mr. DiVincenzo's political
campaigns, as have his senior colleagues and several members of his family.

William J. Palatucci, the company's senior vice president, is one of Mr.
Christie's closest confidants and his former law partner.

Delaney Hall briefly held immigrant detainees in 2008, but they were transferred
to county custody after an immigrant escaped.

A spokesman for Community Education did not return several messages requesting
comment. Kevin Roberts, a spokesman for Mr. Christie, said: ''The governor has
no role in the process whatsoever. It is a county matter.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., the Essex County executive, on Monday
defended the bidding process on a jail for immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VICTOR
BLUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 10, 2011 Monday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Immigrant Detainees

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg.

LENGTH: 176 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Getting Tough on Immigrants to Turn a Profit'' (front page, Sept. 29):

The Women's Refugee Commission has visited numerous detention centers around the
United States where immigrants are held. We have consistently found abusive or
inadequate conditions in facilities run by both for-profit companies and local
governments, including lack of food, poor medical care, limited access to
lawyers, and little or no recreation.

In one facility, female detainees were limited to 12 sanitary napkins a month,
humiliating them if they had to ask for more.

It is unconscionable that for-profit companies are making huge profits on the
backs of immigrant detainees, at the same time depriving them of basic rights.
The alarming increase in the use of detention, to 400,000 in 2010 from 280,000 a
year in 2005, also exacts a high price in dollar terms, which could be mitigated
by the use of alternatives to detention and community service programs.

MICHELLE BRANE

Director Detention and Asylum Program Women's Refugee Commission Washington,
Sept. 29, 2011

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 25, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hacked Memos Of State Police In Arizona Are Released

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Marc Lacey reported from Phoenix
and Richard Oppel from New York. Andrew Lehren contributed reporting from New
York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 696 words


PHOENIX -- A cache of internal documents released online on Thursday by hackers
who gained access to the computer system of the Arizona Department of Public
Safety revealed the array of potential outlaws on the state police's radar
screen, from international terrorists to Mexican drug smugglers to motorcycle
gang members.

There was a memo telling officers not to send text messages while driving and a
warning that criminals had found a way to break into the trunks of Crown
Victoria police cruisers. A document on state budget cuts disclosed which roads
the state police would stop patrolling this year because of reduced staffing.

In one of the leaked documents, the Border Patrol reported how four ''possible
illegal aliens'' encountered by sheriff's deputies in southern Arizona on June
18 were found to be Qatari nationals in the country legally. Other memos warned
officers of a FedEx truck that might be smuggling illegal immigrants and advised
that two armed, off-duty Marines had been found patrolling the border.

''The documents are sensitive, but they don't appear to be classified,'' said
Capt. Steve Harrison, a department spokesman.

The Arizona police agency shut down its e-mail system on Thursday and Friday to
allow computer forensics experts time to investigate the intrusion, which was
orchestrated by Lulz Security, a group of hackers who have previously gained
access to a number of government and private Web sites.

Most alarming to the Arizona police was the release of personal data of some
officers, including their home and cellphone numbers and addresses. The
identities of some undercover officers were also disclosed.

''They put these officers' lives in jeopardy,'' Captain Harrison said of the
hackers, who described their intrusion as a response to Arizona's immigration
crackdown last year.

Several officers whose names were in the documents told The Associated Press
that their phones were ringing constantly on Thursday night with calls from
people who had seen their numbers online. ''It's getting real annoying,''
Officer Daniel Scott said.

Captain Harrison said the release of the documents was not likely to affect
current criminal cases. But he said the information could alert potential
suspects that the police were monitoring them, interfering with future
prosecutions.

The documents provided a behind-the-scenes look at the range of law enforcement
priorities in Arizona.

An intelligence bulletin by the F.B.I. and the United States attorney's office
in Arizona mentioned five incidents over a four-week period in early 2008: A man
who said he was Taiwanese was questioned after he took photographs of a federal
courthouse; five Hispanic people were found in a vehicle with Mexican plates
parked near the Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station; a man reportedly sent his
brother, who was in the Taliban in Afghanistan, large amounts of money; a
''nervous'' man was reported trying to buy chemicals; and a Lebanese man in the
country illegally was detained after he was found with envelopes stuffed with
money placed throughout his vehicle.

A counterterrorism alert, dated May 3, warned Arizona officers to be on guard
for attacks after the killing of Osama bin Laden. Potential targets in the
state, the memo said, could be shopping malls, sporting events like the Major
League Baseball All-Star game in July and military installations.

In a more local matter, an Officer Safety Bulletin warned about an Arizona man
who apparently had battled cocaine addiction, threatened to kill an unidentified
victim and claimed that ''he ate their pet cat.''

An internal memo urged officers to slow down while driving, reminding them that
they saved relatively short amounts of time when they went above the limit of
100 miles per hour recommended in urgent situations.

It is clear that computer security was a concern. A 2009 memo passed along from
a law enforcement group in Maryland warned officers to be careful of e-mails
purporting to be from the F.B.I. and containing a harmful attachment. Another
memo warned officers to be careful of what they put on social networking sites,
because the information could be used to damage their credibility in court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Advocates File Suit on Petition Signatures

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 780 words


ANNAPOLIS, Md. -- Until recently, Maryland stood apart from other states that
have passed anti-immigrant legislation.

In April, for example, it passed a law that would allow illegal immigrants to
qualify for in-state tuition if their parents paid taxes. But opponents of the
bill blocked it last month just before it took effect, gathering enough
signatures to put it on the ballot in 2012. Now, a group of students and an
immigrant advocacy group have filed suit in Annapolis against the Maryland State
Board of Elections for verifying what they say were thousands of invalid
signatures.

Lawyers representing nine plaintiffs, including two illegal immigrants and the
advocacy group, CASA de Maryland, said many of the signatures were invalid
because the voter information on the forms was filled in by a computer program
linked to the state's voter database, and not by the voter, as required under
Maryland law.

Joe Sandler, a lawyer for the plaintiffs, said the suit, which was filed Monday,
was a test case for whether petitions for ballot measures that were generated
and filled out online would stand in court. Utah and California have wrestled
with similar questions recently, he said, but those cases involved the
legitimacy of electronic signatures for ballot measures.

''These are some new issues,'' Mr. Sandler said at a news conference in front of
the court where the case was filed. ''We believe it's a very strong case.''

In April, Maryland's legislature passed a bill known as the Dream Act that gave
illegal immigrants access to in-state college tuition, provided their parents
had filed three years of tax returns. The students also had to have graduated
from a Maryland high school and have attended a community college to qualify.

Supporters of the bill argued that it would help lift struggling immigrant
families.

''Those kids who are going to go to college are going to save our families,''
said Gustavo Torres, the executive director of CASA de Maryland, which provides
publicly financed services for immigrants and also performs an advocacy role.
''That is the future of our community.''

This month, the Maryland State Board of Elections ruled that 109,000 signatures
gathered by opponents, led by Neil Parrott, a Republican state delegate from
Washington County, were valid. CASA de Maryland later obtained the signatures
through the Maryland Public Information Act, and after examining 47,000
signatures, concluded that more than half of them were invalid.

In all, 55,736 are required to qualify for a ballot measure, or 3 percent of the
total votes cast in the last election for governor. The next batch is arriving
this week, but Mr. Sandler said that based on their count so far, he believed
the opponents were about 4,500 signatures short.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Parrott dismissed Monday's suit as frivolous.

''These groups are grasping at straws,'' he said. ''It's outrageous that they
would try to challenge the validity of the signatures, when it's clear that
Maryland voters want to vote on this issue.''

Kim Propeack, a lawyer who is the director of political action at CASA de
Maryland, said the case was being closely watched by immigration experts because
its outcome would be an important indicator for immigration reform, which had
long been stalled.

''If one the most popular immigrant issues in one of the bluest states does not
win, that would be a very bad sign,'' she said.

The Hispanic population in Maryland has grown significantly since 1990, and Mr.
Torres said some of the opposition may have roots in the discomfort some people
feel at the rapid change the state has undergone. ''Montgomery County used to be
one of the whitest counties in the Washington area, and now minorities are a
majority,'' Mr. Torres said.

Brad Botwin, the director of Help Save Maryland, which has lobbied against the
bill, argued that extending benefits to illegal immigrants would have the effect
of ''watering down citizenship.''

''It's just wrong,'' said Mr. Botwin, 54, a native of Long Island who works for
the federal government. ''To have people sneak in and then get vocal about all
the things that are owed them, that just rubs me the wrong way. It's a nanny
state.''

But supporters of the bill argued that students' families had to prove they had
been paying taxes, which meant they were not being given unfair access to
in-state rates.

Wendy Hercules, a high school student who attended the news conference, said she
had come because she believed that taking away the chance for higher education
''isn't good for anyone.''

''I have friends and family who came to this country looking for the American
dream,'' she said. ''This is a tiny part of the dream.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Sandler, a lawyer for a group of students and an immigrant
advocacy group, speaking on Monday in Annapolis, Md. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN
WITTE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deal Reached on Dialysis for Immigrants

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 565 words


ATLANTA -- Twenty-one illegal immigrants will continue to receive regular
dialysis at no cost for three years under an agreement disclosed Friday by
Atlanta's public hospital, Grady Memorial, and the world's largest dialysis
provider, Fresenius Medical Care.

The deal solves an impasse created when a previous one-year contract between
Grady and Fresenius expired on Aug. 31 and the dialysis provider refused to
serve patients who showed up for their regular thrice-a-week treatments.

The patients spent the past week seeking care in Atlanta-area emergency rooms,
including Grady's, which are required by federal law to screen and treat those
at risk of impairment or death.

In some instances, ailing patients were turned away by emergency room doctors
who determined that their elevated potassium levels and fluid retention were not
yet severe enough to justify emergency treatment. Each renal patient's need for
dialysis is different, but those unable to artificially clean the toxic
substances from their blood can die in as little as two weeks.

One of the patients, an illegal immigrant named Reina Andrade, chose to fly home
to Honduras on Wednesday morning after being denied treatment by Grady's
emergency room on Saturday, becoming seriously ill on Sunday and receiving
dialysis through another hospital's emergency room that night, according to her
sister, Marlen Andrade.

Hours after Reina Andrade and her 9-year-old son boarded a flight for
Tegucigalpa, Grady and Fresenius announced that they had an agreement in
principle to restore the treatments.

''That was too late for her,'' said Marlen Andrade, who lived with her sister
near Atlanta. ''She's already gone. I told myself that God must have a plan for
her.''

Marlen Andrade said she learned from relatives on Friday that her sister
received dialysis in Tegucigalpa that morning, and that her family had scraped
together enough to pay for perhaps two weeks of treatments. There is no
provision for free care in Honduras, she said.

The agreement between Grady and Fresenius would allow Ms. Andrade to receive
treatment in Atlanta if she could return here. But that would require a rigorous
illegal border crossing that can be physically challenging even for the healthy.

''In her condition, she could never cross the border illegally again, never,''
Marlen Andrade said. Reina Andrade was fit when she first immigrated to the
United States 12 years ago, her sister said, but developed kidney disease
several years later.

The patients' odyssey began two years ago when Grady closed its outpatient
dialysis clinic, where many had received free treatment for years. Illegal
immigrants are not eligible for Medicare, which covers most dialysis costs for
American citizens. After the immigrants filed a lawsuit and gained news media
attention, the hospital agreed to pay Fresenius to care for them during a
transitional period. Other than the past week, it has never ended.

Under the new contract, Grady agrees to pay Fresenius $15,500 per patient per
year for treatment at the company's outpatient clinics. That is less than half
of the $750,000 flat fee Grady paid Fresenius for the yearlong contract that
just ended.

Grady, which receives direct appropriations from two county governments, faces a
budget shortfall of more than $20 million this year. It maintained in
negotiations that it could not afford to pay Fresenius the previous rates.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adolfo Sanchez was one of the illegal immigrants whose kidney
dialysis treatments were at stake during recent talks in Atlanta. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 74 words


An article in some copies on Wednesday about a plan by the New York State Board
of Regents to require the state to provide illegal immigrants with the same
types of scholarships and tuition assistance offered to other students gave an
incorrect estimate for the number of illegal immigrants attending public schools
statewide. It is 120,000 -- not 345,000, which is the estimated number of
children statewide whose parents are illegal immigrants.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hiring Locally For Farm Work Is No Cure-All

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1017 words


OLATHE, Colo. -- How can there be a labor shortage when nearly one out of every
11 people in the nation are unemployed?

That's the question John Harold asked himself last winter when he was trying to
figure out how much help he would need to harvest the corn and onions on his
1,000-acre farm here in western Colorado.

The simple-sounding plan that resulted -- hire more local people and fewer
foreign workers -- left Mr. Harold and others who took a similar path adrift in
a predicament worthy of Kafka.

The more they tried to do something concrete to address immigration and
joblessness, the worse off they found themselves.

''It's absolutely true that people who have played by the rules are having the
toughest time of all,'' said Senator Michael Bennet, a Democrat from Colorado.

Mr. Harold, a 71-year-old Vietnam War veteran who drifted here in the late '60s,
has participated for about a decade in a federal program called H-2A that allows
seasonal foreign workers into the country to make up the gap where willing and
able American workers are few in number. He typically has brought in about 90
people from Mexico each year from July through October.

This year, though, with tough times lingering and a big jump in the minimum wage
under the program, to nearly $10.50 hour, Mr. Harold brought in only two-thirds
of his usual contingent. The other positions, he figured, would be snapped up by
jobless local residents wanting some extra summer cash.

''It didn't take me six hours to realize I'd made a heck of a mistake,'' Mr.
Harold said, standing in his onion field on a recent afternoon as a crew of
workers from Mexico cut the tops off yellow onions and bagged them.

Six hours was enough, between the 6 a.m. start time and noon lunch break, for
the first wave of local workers to quit. Some simply never came back and gave no
reason. Twenty-five of them said specifically, according to farm records, that
the work was too hard. On the Harold farm, pickers walk the rows alongside a
huge harvest vehicle called a mule train, plucking ears of corn and handing them
up to workers on the mule who box them and lift the crates, each weighing 45 to
50 pounds.

''It is not an easy job,'' said Kerry Mattics, 49, another H-2A farmer here in
Olathe, who brought in only a third of his usual Mexican crew of 12 workers for
his 50-acre fruit and vegetable farm, then struggled to make it through the
season. ''It's outside, so if it's wet, you're wet, and if it's hot you're
hot,'' he said.

Still, Mr. Mattics said, he can't help feeling that people have gotten soft.

''They wanted that $10.50 an hour without doing very much,'' he said. ''I know
people with college degrees, working for the school system and only making 11
bucks.''

A mismatch between employers' requirements and the skills and needs of the
jobless -- repeated across industries -- has been a constant theme of this
recessionary era. But here on the farm, mismatch can mean high anxiety.

The H-2A program, in particular, in trying to avoid displacing American citizens
from jobs, strongly encourages farmers to hire locally if they can, with a
requirement that they advertise in at least three states. That forces
participants to take huge risks in guessing where a moving target might land --
how many locals, how many foreigners -- often with an entire season's revenue at
stake. Survival, not civic virtue, drives the equation, they say.

''Farmers have to bear almost all the labor market risk because they must prove
no one really was available, qualified or willing to work,'' said Dawn D.
Thilmany, a professor of agricultural economics at Colorado State University.
''But the only way to offer proof is to literally have a field left
unharvested.''

Mr. Harold's experience is a repeated refrain where farm labor is seasonal and
population sparse. And even many immigration hard-liners have come to agree that
the dearth of Americans willing to work the fields requires some sort of
rethinking, at least, of the H-2A program. Indeed, Representative Lamar Smith of
Texas, a conservative Republican, is pushing a bill that would greatly expand
the number of foreign guest workers admitted to the country each year.

In Colorado, the unemployment rate in many rural counties is also significantly
lower than in the cities -- two neighboring counties here, for example, had 5.5
percent and 6 percent unemployment rates in August, according to state figures,
compared with 9.1 percent for the nation as a whole. The big increase in the
wage rate for H-2A workers, meanwhile, up nearly $2.50 an hour -- calculated by
averaging what farmers had to pay last year -- also suggests that labor demand
was already rising.

Mr. Harold usually hires about 50 local workers for the season -- regulars who
have worked summers for years -- and most returned this year, he said. Finding
new employees was where he ran into trouble. He was able to recover after the
season started, he said, by rushing in another group of H-2A workers from
Mexico.

But the broader story of labor in agriculture, economists and historians said,
is that through good times and bad and across socioeconomic lines, people who
find better lives off the farm rarely return. Mr. Harold and other H-2A farmers
said that most of the local residents who tried field work this summer, for
example, were Hispanic, many of whom, they said, had probably immigrated in
years past for agricultural work before taking better-paid jobs in construction
or landscaping.

Other farmers left in the lurch by local workers conceded that what they had to
offer was a tough sell -- full-time but temporary work. About 56,000 foreign
workers came into the country with H-2A visas last year, according to the most
recent federal figures, down from 60,000 in 2009.

Heath Terrell is one of the few new local residents who stuck it out. Mr.
Terrell, a former hay hauler, was hired to drive a corn truck. That job kept him
out of the fields, and out of the sun. Now, as the season has shifted from corn
to onions, Mr. Terrell, 42, said he might just stay on with Mr. Harold through
the winter, or at least onion season.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Harold, above, found himself short of workers to harvest
his corn and onions after he decided to try to hire more local residents and
fewer foreign laborers for his 1,000-acre farm. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) MAP: Olathe farmers sought workers for July
through October. (A17)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                          September 7, 2011 Wednesday

Far From Home, at Work in Dubai

BYLINE: DANIEL J. WAKIN

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 449 words



HIGHLIGHT: Ruben Reyes photographed the many foreign workers - men from India,
Bangladesh and Pakistan - who make up the labor force in Dubai.


Most of the faces gaze straight into the camera, very little air between them
and the lens; very little space between them and us. Many have the stubble of
laborers. Some are wearing headgear - a hard hat, a bandana striping the
forehead, a kerchief over the skull with the knot-end extruding from behind. The
expressions show curiosity, fatigue, bemusement, tolerance.

They are portraits of foreign laborers in Dubai by the photographer Ruben E.
Reyes, who was there to visit his brother - himself an expatriate, but an
accountant.

Mr. Reyes called the project "Innominate" - a less generic-sounding version of
"anonymous" - to comment on the status of the workers. Eighty-five percent of
the workforce of the United Arab Emirates, of which Dubai is a part, is made up
of foreigners. Nannies and drivers and oil workers.

"They go on anonymously," Mr. Reyes said. "Thousands of them. They're stripped
of their passports on arrival." In Mr. Reyes's view, "they are basically
indentured slaves who build the city and run it and do not get credit for it."

Mr. Reyes photographed the laborers "in a way that shows their  dignity and
humanity," seeking to depict their essence. Yet the pictures  have no captions
and no names. In a  state that is uneasy about perceptions of how large numbers
of immigrant  workers are treated, Mr. Reyes said, the anonymity was for their
own protection.

Most of the men are from India, Bangladesh and Pakistan. They live in  camps,
barred from regular public transportation, Mr.  Reyes said. He gained their
trust by visiting work sites - keeping a low  profile as he chatted and got to
know the foremen. He used a digital  camera, in  part so that he could print
quickly and bring photographs back to  his subjects to gain the trust of their
fellow workers.

Some pictures in the full series provide context for the lives of Mr. Reyes's
subjects. An apartment where 12 men sleep, four to a room. A glass skyscraper
under construction. A bus taking the members of a work crew back to their
quarters.

Mr. Reyes, 32, an American citizen raised in Mexico City, studied business at
Arizona State University. In 2006, he started to think seriously about becoming
a photographer. He moved to New York the following year to take courses at the
International Center of Photography.

Mr. Reyes said his Mexican heritage helped him appreciate the lives of the
foreign workers. "Obviously I identify with immigrant workers here," he said,
speaking over the phone from California. "Over , I could see the struggle."



     ·    An Ancient Culture in Mountainous Mexico
     ·    Medieval Flagellation in an Italian Town
     ·    Tracing the Shadows of Operation Condor
     ·    Showcase: West Into East
     ·    Showcase: Dubai's Improbable Tale


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              158 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 26, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Workers Stranded Without Money or Visas

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT; Yasir Ghazi contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; BAGHDAD JOURNAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1123 words


BAGHDAD -- For months, they have sat here, half a block from the prime
minister's palace in the Green Zone, essentially captives with little food,
drinking water or electricity.

Humble laborers, they came to Baghdad in January from Eastern Europe and Asia
seeking better wages. They had the important-sounding assignment of building a
dozen villas to house heads of state for the annual meeting of the Arab League,
which was scheduled to take place here.

But the project was halted in April for reasons that are unclear, and a month
later, as the Arab Spring rolled on, the Arab League meeting was postponed until
next year.

Now the workers -- 27 Ukrainians (including a woman), 7 Bulgarians and 1
Nepalese -- are marooned here, living in one of the world's hottest and most
inhospitable cities in an abandoned building next to the construction site and
lacking the documents they need to leave the country.

The abandoned building, which used to house a restaurant for American soldiers,
barely has running water. It has no air-conditioning, so they spend most of
their days sitting outside in just their underwear. From that vantage point they
have an excellent view of convoys of high-ranking Iraqi and American officials
driving past, apparently oblivious to the sign the laborers have affixed to a
fence there calling for help in broken English.

Like prisoners, they pass the time playing cards and checkers, which are made
out of water bottle caps. Packs of cigarettes are consumed daily. ''We're not
doing good,'' said one of the workers, who, like many others interviewed at the
site, asked that his name not be disclosed because he feared for his safety.

In the mornings, the workers are awakened by the noise of rats running through
the building. Their only hot meal is delivered every day around 3 p.m. by the
International Organization for Migration. At night, some workers sleep outside
because it is cooler. All of them listen for rockets and mortar shells aimed at
the Green Zone, the highly protected area that houses the United States Embassy
and many important Iraqi government buildings and that is a favorite target of
insurgents. Unlike the embassy and the government buildings, the construction
site does not have duck-and-cover bunkers.

Several weeks ago, one of the workers tried to commit suicide.

The annual meeting of the Arab League, which Iraqi leaders hoped would showcase
the progress they claimed their country had made, was postponed because, with
the Arab world boiling, many leaders did not want to leave their countries, in
part out of fear they would never return.

For the laborers, the work initially sounded so appealing that they took out
loans to pay recruiters in their native countries for the jobs. They were told
that they would make $2,500 a month and live in an air-conditioned room with
electricity and an Internet connection. But when they arrived, the company in
charge of the construction told them they would be paid $1,500 a month and gave
them the abandoned building to live in. The company was supposed to pay the
workers on a monthly basis and give them proper visas, but neither of those
things happened.

In April, the laborers were told to stop working because the money for the
project had dried up. The construction, they were told, would resume in a few
days.

But that did not happen, either.

The laborers do not want to leave without being paid the money they say they are
owed. But even if they wanted to leave, they could not, because they have little
money and could be arrested if Iraqi officials found they were living in the
country without visas. So they have waited.

''We're not leaving until they shoot us,'' one of the workers said, repeating
the vow to hold out until getting the money owed them. A few seconds later, he
added, ''But we don't even have an exit.''

It is unclear who owes the laborers their wages. One company, the Salar Group,
signed the initial multimillion-dollar contract with the minister of foreign
affairs to build the villas. Then Salar apparently subcontracted the work to
another company, Noblehaus. But Fawzi Abdullah, the owner of Noblehaus, said in
a telephone interview that his company had nothing to do with construction and
that he had only sold Salar the right to use his company's name because Salar
was not registered in Iraq.

Mr. Fawzi said that the Iraqi government shut down the construction project
because Salar was behind schedule and not using proper materials. He said that
Salar did not specialize in construction projects and that he did not know why
the government gave it the contract. ''Those workers have nothing to do with all
of that,'' he said. ''Salar should resolve the issue and pay the workers their
salaries.''

An employee for Salar told a reporter on Wednesday that he should call back to
speak with the head of the company. Three subsequent phone calls to the company
were not answered.

Employees from one of the companies offered the workers $1,000 each to leave.
But they refused, according to the laborers, saying that it would not cover
their costs to get home and was far less than they were owed.

The laborers said those employees told them that Iraqi security forces would
come the next morning and drop those who did not accept the money outside the
Green Zone, where they were likely to be killed. The migration organization
pressured the security forces to stand down. Ultimately, they never showed up.

''The company that contracted with the employees lied to them about their
salaries and the working conditions,'' said Livia Styp-Rekowska, a program
officer for the International Organization for Migration. ''You can say it's
trafficking for labor exploitation. It's quite close to human trafficking.'' By
the beginning of August, the migration group began providing them with aid.

Ms. Styp-Rekowska said that four of the workers -- one had damaged his kidneys
by drinking nonpotable water -- had to be taken to the United Nations compound
to see a doctor.

''When we took them to the U.N. compound, they looked unsettled,'' she said,
adding that she asked them, ''Is everything O.K.?'' She said they relied, ''
'It's cool. To be in an air-conditioned room is a treat.' ''

She said the migration group had been pressuring the Iraqi government to force
the companies to pay the workers the money due them -- about $285,000 total --
and provide them with proper visas, so they can return home. Ms. Styp-Rekowska
said the labor minister planned to raise the issue before Prime Minister Nuri
Kamal al-Maliki at a meeting on Thursday.

One of the laborers said his young children back in Ukraine did not understand
his quandary.

''They ask their mother, 'Where's my father?' '' he said. ''I tell them, 'Just
wait. Just wait.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of the laborers marooned in the Green Zone in Baghdad by a
stalled building project. They say they are owed $285,000.
 Workers from Ukraine and Bulgaria picking up lunch at a canteen in the
abandoned Baghdad building where they live. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 12, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Louisiana Business Owners Sue Over New Wage Rules for Guest Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1200 words


EUNICE, La. -- The workers have been in fine spirits this summer in the small
plant where Dexter Guillory cuts up alligator meat to feed the growing demand
from Southern restaurants for the swamp creatures' steaks.

Mr. Guillory runs his family business in this Cajun country town with a mix of
local employees and guest workers from Mexico, who come up each year on legal
visas through a federal program known as H-2B. All the workers are paid by the
pound of meat they carve in the well-chilled plant, and this year there have
been plenty of alligators, so earnings have been good.

''I love this work because I cut more alligator, I make more money, that's
why,'' said Lorena Aguilar, 38, who has been coming from Sinaloa, Mexico, with
half a dozen of her relatives, to work for Mr. Guillory for part of the year for
nearly a decade.

But small-business owners in south Louisiana, like Mr. Guillory, who cut
alligators, peel crawfish, shuck oysters, shell crabs and process shrimp say
they are about to receive a shock from new Labor Department regulations that
make broad changes to the H-2B program. The employers say the rules, including
some issued in January and some still under consideration, could put many of
them out of business.

On Wednesday, several Louisiana food associations brought a federal lawsuit
against the Labor Department and the Department of Homeland Security, which
jointly administer the H-2B program, saying a new mandatory method for setting
wages for foreign workers would cause ''catastrophic results.'' Starting Sept.
30, they would have to pay guest workers at crawfish and shrimp processors wage
increases that range from 51 percent to 83 percent of current hourly rates,
according to the suit.

The employers said these sudden increases would be crippling and would expose
them to unwinnable competition from foreign imports and from other businesses
that hire illegal immigrants. The suit was joined by other Louisiana businesses
that use the guest-worker program, including forestry companies, hotel and
amusement park owners and sugar growers.

The dispute is a microcosm of the nation's larger debate over job creation,
which President Obama has made his priority. Louisiana employers say their
businesses, which give work to thousands of Americans as well as foreign
migrants, are being hamstrung by proliferating federal regulations.
Administration officials argue that stronger rules are needed to protect
Americans' jobs and wages in a time of high unemployment.

The Louisiana lawsuit puts the Labor Department back in the middle of a running
feud between employers and labor advocates over one of the few programs that
bring Mexican and other foreign low-wage workers legally to the United States.

Under the H-2B program, employers can bring in up to 66,000 nonagricultural
foreign workers each year for temporary stints, after they have shown that
American workers are not available and that Americans' wages will not be
adversely affected.

After years of complaints from employers that the program was inefficient and
cumbersome, the administration of President George W. Bush sought to streamline
the application process, putting new regulations into effect in January 2009.
Farmworker organizations sued the Labor Department to reverse them.

In August 2010, a federal court in Pennsylvania hearing one of those lawsuits
ordered department officials to issue new rules on how employers should
determine wages for H-2B workers. The new wage rules were issued in January, but
department officials, acting under court order, announced only last month that
they would go into effect Sept. 30.

In a parallel effort, the Obama administration's labor secretary, Hilda L.
Solis, has undertaken a wider critical review of the Bush administration rules.
In March, the department published a 77-page proposal.

The Labor Department has not yet issued the final broader rule.

Jane Oates, an assistant secretary of labor, said the department's proposals
were intended to improve recruitment of American workers for jobs, while
reinforcing protections for foreign migrants. ''More of these jobs could be
filled by U.S. workers if they were aware of the opportunity and paid prevailing
wages,'' Ms. Oates said.

All the proposed changes have drawn alarmed criticism from employers but were
generally praised by labor organizations. The National Guestworker Alliance, a
group based in New Orleans, said, ''Too often employers shopping for the most
exploitable work force manipulate the program,'' leading to ''involuntary
servitude'' of foreign workers.

Here in Eunice, home of the Cajun Music Hall of Fame, Mr. Guillory said he was
baffled by the department's efforts to fix an immigration program he never knew
was broken. Persistent high unemployment in other parts of the country has not
made it easier for him to find local Americans to take his jobs, which ebb and
flow with the seasons.

Mr. Guillory needs labor because demand for alligator meat for restaurant tables
has been bolstered by a program on the History Channel, called ''Swamp People,''
whose heroes catch alligators in Louisiana bayous. Mr. Guillory actually gets
his alligators less arduously, from nearby farms. He also peels crawfish,
another seasonal crop.

Hurricane Katrina in 2005 had a lasting effect on the labor force in this
region, he and other employers said, with many thousands of people leaving New
Orleans for good. Once reconstruction started, workers headed to the city for
well-paying jobs. The generous wages of the Louisiana oil industry also draw
local workers away from Eunice.

Many here cannot afford to lose year-round government benefits if they take
seasonal, piece-rate jobs with Mr. Guillory, he and several of his full-time
American employees said.

But Mexican workers in the plant said they liked the work and the boss and were
content with the rhythm of working for six months or so and then returning to
Mexico.

''Mr. Dexter gets them through the immigration, and they're good workers,'' said
Elizabeth Guillory, 72, a Eunice resident (no relation to her employer) who is
the floor supervisor in the plant. ''I've been poor all my life, and I know what
it is to have work.'' Between Mexicans and Americans in the plant, she said,
''We have good relationships.''

Ms. Aguilar said she and her family were grateful to be working legally in the
United States. ''It feels good because not everybody has this chance,'' she
said.

Mr. Guillory says he cannot understand why the Labor Department does not
recognize his record as a fair employer. If he cannot hire guest workers, he
said, the chain of lost jobs and income for local people would run back to the
alligator and crawfish farmers whose crops he would not process and forward to
the restaurants that serve his products.

That sequence is what Louisiana employers said they hope to avert with the
lawsuit.

''This is a showstopper,'' said Frank Randol, who runs a crawfish business and a
Cajun restaurant in Lafayette and represents the Crawfish Processors Alliance,
one group in the suit. ''In 40 years I've been in this business, we've faced
just about everything,'' he said, ''but now we are facing our own government
trying to shut us down.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, employees processing oysters at Motivatit Seafoods in
Houma, La. Right, Riceland Crawfish in Eunice, La., also processes alligator
meat and produces the Country Boy Gator brand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM WIDMER
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Labor Department Postpones Guest Workers' Wage Increase

BYLINE: By JULIE PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
13

LENGTH: 83 words


The Labor Department late Thursday announced a 60-day delay in wage increases
for foreign guest workers under the federal H-2B program. Employers in the
program have argued that the steep and sudden increases, scheduled to take
effect Sept. 30, could put many of them out of business, costing American jobs.
Louisiana employers sued the department, and Senators Mary L. Landrieu of
Louisiana and Barbara A. Mikulski of Maryland, both Democrats, said they would
try to have the wage increases canceled.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Viewers Get Latest Episode of 'Real Republicans of the Trail'

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 748 words


Mitt Romney said he liked Herman Cain's ''chutzpah.'' He laughed, mirthlessly,
when Rick Perry accused him of lying about hiring undocumented workers in his
home. And he really didn't enjoy being interrupted. Mr. Romney put a hand on Mr.
Perry's arm, space invasion of the first kind, and said, ''I'm speaking, I'm
speaking, I'm speaking, I'm speaking.''

False praise, forced laughter, high dudgeon: All that was missing in Tuesday's
Republican showdown was someone tossing a glass of chardonnay across the set.

People keep saying the primary debates are like a reality show, as if disputes
over tax plans and immigration were akin to elimination rounds on ''Dancing With
the Stars'' or ''The Amazing Race.''

But those are not the right kind of reality shows. The ones that Tuesday's event
mirrored revolve around casting, not competition. Debates showcase personality
far more than policy positions.

Series like ''The Real World'' and ''The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills''
taught viewers to follow the antics of amateurs who couldn't act but would act
out. And more than almost any others in recent memory, these debates pit
candidates whose main qualifications rest on personality, not resumes.
(Government inexperience is considered a virtue: Mr. Cain boasted on Tuesday
that he was the only ''non-politician'' in the group. )

The Republican contenders aren't a diverse cross-section, by any means, but they
are just different enough -- the Mormon, the Catholic, the Texan, the doctor,
the tax lawyer, the conservative wonk and the pizza salesman -- to stir up
drama.

And there was plenty of hyped-up heat. Newt Gingrich was haughty and dismissive
and Rick Santorum combative, while Mr. Perry, trying to show more aggression to
make up for his hesitations in past debates, was downright hostile. Even Mr.
Romney lost a little of his bonhomie, calling Mr. Perry ''testy.''

''I suggest that if you want to become president of the United States, you've
got to let both people speak,'' he said. ''So first, let me speak.''

Mr. Romney looked a little like a country club tennis player dealing with a
nonmember guest who gauchely calls a ball in that was obviously out.

Debates, like reality shows, are cheap to produce. Ratings keep going up, so
cable networks keep commissioning more: there were only 3 Republican primary
debates in 2000; this time around, 22 are scheduled. This is low-budget
programming with showy frills. The introduction to the Las Vegas debate -- with
music, mountains, majesty and a montage of gambling images -- was a cheesy blend
of Caesars Palace and ''Sunday Night Football.''

Debates rarely delve deeply into issues, but a camera, left on long enough,
exposes the person behind the campaign personage. Mr. Cain shook off the
criticism of his 9-9-9 tax plan by urging Americans to ''do their own math.''
Mr. Cain, who entered the race as an eccentric, turned out to be the unflappable
fast food executive who serves people fare they can't resist, even if it does
more harm than good.

On Tuesday, Mr. Romney looked like what he was before he entered politics: a
steely, competitive Bain & Company executive. Michele Bachmann kept reminding
audiences that she is a tax lawyer, but it's her experience running a Christian
counseling center with her husband that comes through more clearly. Her most
memorable performance was at a September debate when she showed an evangelist's
attachment to dogma and absolutism in attacking Mr. Perry over the HPV vaccine.

Mr. Perry, the Texas governor, entered the race as a fire-breathing militiaman
and quickly was exposed as a career politician who is better behind closed doors
than in front of an open mike. On Tuesday, he tried to be the ''authentic
conservative'' in the room, then cited France as a role model.

Ron Paul may be a congressman, but in this debate he looked a lot like the
private-practice doctor he once was -- the kind who doesn't accept Medicare
payments, and has a cure-all the F.D.A. won't approve.

(Former Gov. Jon M. Huntsman Jr. of Utah wasn't on the stage, since he boycotted
the forum to protest Nevada's decision to move up its caucus; he was acting like
the diplomat he recently was, resorting to the kind of walkout that delegations
stage at the United Nations.)

David Axelrod, President Obama's longtime adviser, recently described campaigns
are ''an M.R.I. for the soul.'' Debates are closer to a sonogram -- it takes a
while to make out distinctions, but eventually even a fuzzy blob starts to look
human.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The audience at Tuesday's primary debate in Las Vegas was
treated to outsize personalities going after one another. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA
ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday

Janet Napolitano Takes on Critics of Immigration

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 475 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a speech, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano took on
critics of the administration's immigration policies on both the left and right.



    In a blunt speech on Wednesday, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
took on critics of the administration's immigration policies on both the left
and right, telling Republicans that security along the border with Mexico is "at
an apex" and rejecting calls from immigrant advocacy groups to slow the pace of
deportations.

In forceful language that seemed to echo President Obama's newly aggressive
tone, Ms. Napolitano said she was offering a "reality check" to politicians who
say the administration has let the southwest border run out of control.

"The border is safer than it has been in decades," Ms. Napolitano said in a
speech at American University in Washington. She said critics had unfairly
"minimized" the work of the border agents patrolling the line.

The Republican presidential candidates have been virtually unanimous in
condemning President Obama for weak border security. Gov. Rick Perry of Texas,
who has been attacked by his rivals for being too liberal on some immigration
issues, suggested last week that the United States might have to send troops to
Mexico to stop violent drug traffickers from coming across the border.

Ms. Napolitano also defended the administration's broader enforcement efforts,
which have led to nearly 400,000 deportations in each of the past two years. She
said her department was realigning its resources to focus on deporting
immigrants convicted of crimes, while down-playing the removal of immigrants
here illegally who had not committed more serious violations.

She said a record number of 195,000 convicted criminals were deported in 2010.
More than 90 percent of the foreigners deported last year, Ms. Napolitano said,
were  criminal convicts, fugitives or recent border crossers, the
administration's priority groups for deportation.

The secretary said she would not cancel or suspend a fingerprint-sharing program
her department has been expanding across the country. The program, Secure
Communities, has been assailed by Latino and immigrant groups, who say it swept
up many non-criminal immigrants.

Ms. Napolitano admitted the program "got off to a bad start," because officials
"did not explain clearly how it works and who is required to participate."  But
she said recent improvements have made it the "single best tool" to focus
immigration agents on ridding the country of foreign criminals.

Governors in Illinois, Massachusetts and New York, all Democrats, have tried to
withdraw from Secure Communities. In her speech, Ms. Napolitano said that
terminating the program anywhere "would only weaken public safety."

But she also rejected Republican claims that the administration is circumventing
Congress by sparing some illegal immigrants from deportation. "Vesting
discretion in our immigration enforcement officers," she said, "is not amnesty."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              163 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Sins of the Parents

BYLINE: LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1168 words



HIGHLIGHT: Florida is treating residents who have lived their entire lives there
as non-residents for tuition purposes if they can't prove their parents are in
the United States legally.


 In the current race to the bottom to see which state can provide the most
degraded and dehumanizing environment for undocumented immigrants, Arizona and
Alabama have grabbed the headlines. But largely unnoticed, it is Florida, home
to nearly one million Cuban refugees and their descendants, that has come up
with perhaps the most bizarre and pointless anti-immigrant policy of all.

Beginning last year, the state's higher education authorities have been treating
American citizens born in the United States, including graduates of Florida high
schools who have spent their entire lives in the state, as non-residents for
tuition purposes if they can't demonstrate that their parents are in the country
legally.

Yes, you read that correctly - although when I first came upon a description of
the policy a few weeks ago, I was sure that I had misunderstood something. It's
a basic tenet of equal protection law that the government can't single out
citizens for disfavored treatment without a good reason. The Supreme Court is
serious about this, even ruling unanimouslya decade ago that an Illinois village
violated an individual homeowner's 14th Amendment right to equal protection by
demanding from her a bigger easement than it required of her neighbors as the
price of connecting her home to the municipal water supply.

A few feet of land more or less may not have made a life-changing difference to
the plaintiff in that case. But consider the difference between in-state and
non-resident tuition at the University of Florida: $5,700 a year versus $27,936.
The disparity is similar at the state's community colleges, although the price
tags are lower. It is the difference between a college education and none.

It seems grossly unfair, as the Supreme Court acknowledged 30 years ago in
Plyler v. Doewhen it held that Texas could not deprive undocumented children of
a free public K-through-12 education, to blame children for the wrongdoing of
their parents. Unfair and, as Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. observed in his
concurring opinion, socially self-destructive, in creating a permanent
underclass of uneducated people. (Alabama has observed the formalities of the
Plyler opinion by simply trying to frighten undocumented parents into keeping
their children out of school; if the decision were not on the books, that state
would undoubtedly have shut the schoolhouse doors by now.)

The Supreme Court has never extended the Plyler opinion to give undocumented
children rights to higher education. Alabama bars them entirely from its public
universities and colleges, as does South Carolina. Other states permit them to
enroll while denying the in-state tuition break, while a dozen states, including
- famously-Texas, treat them as residents, entitled to in-state tuition rates.

That policy debate is ongoing, but the Florida situation is something deeper and
uglier. Its victims are, after all, American citizens, as fully American as Rick
Scott, Florida's scary governor, who said last month that the state's
universities should focus on practical subjects that create jobs rather than on
the study of such subjects as political science, psychology, or anthropology.
("We don't need them here," Governor Scott said of anthropologists. University
students in Florida are circulating petitions to have the governor's name kept
off their diplomas.)

The students who filed a lawsuit last month challenging the policy are as
American as Senator Lindsey Graham, the South Carolina Republican who is leading
a campaign to amend the Constitution. He and his allies would repeal, for the
children of undocumented immigrants, the 14th Amendment's grant of "birthright
citizenship" ("All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state
wherein they reside"). The Florida policy - it's not even a statute, but simply
an interpretive rule adopted by the state's Board of Education and its
University System, taking many college administrators and enrolled students by
surprise - amounts to repeal of birthright citizenship by regulation.

"Corruption of blood" was a familiar feature of the common law in England. A
person found guilty of treason and certain other crimes would be barred from
passing his estate on to his children, who would thus inherit nothing but the
corrupted blood line. The framers of the United States Constitution considered
and forcefully rejected the concept. Article III, the judiciary article,
contains this sentence: "The Congress shall have power to declare the punishment
of treason, but no attainder of treason shall work corruption of blood, or
forfeiture except during the life of the person attained." As James Madison
expressed the thought more directly at the time, the purpose was to prevent
Congress "from extending the consequences of guilt beyond the person of its
author."

Nor were the founding fathers content to leave the matter there. Going beyond
treason, Congress enacted a law in 1790 to provide that "no conviction or
judgment . . .  shall work corruption of blood or any forfeiture of estate."
Although not in so many words, the principle that guilt is not inheritable lay
behind the modern Supreme Court's gradual recognition of rights for children
born out of wedlock, deemed by society to be "illegitimate."

The lawsuit filed last month in Federal District Court in Miami by the Southern
Poverty Law Center asks the court to do the obvious: to rule that Florida's
"policy and practice of classifying dependent United States citizen students who
reside in Florida as 'non-residents' based on their parents' federal immigration
status denies these United States citizens equal protection of the laws in
violation of the 14th Amendment to the United States Constitution."

The lawsuit, which seeks class-action status on behalf of "all past, present,
and future United States citizens" affected by the policy, names five individual
plaintiffs. Two were forced for financial reasons to withdraw from Miami Dade
College when the policy took effect. Two others can't afford to take all the
credits necessary to complete their degrees on time, and one, who would have
received a full scholarship as a resident, couldn't afford to enroll at all.
Four were born in Miami and one in Los Angeles. All are eligible to be president
of the United States.

The complaint hasn't yet been formally served on the state, so it's not clear
what defense Florida will come up with. Bills to overturn the policy were filed
within the last few weeks in both houses of the Florida Legislature. If the
state is lucky, one will pass and take it off the hook. The State Senate
sponsor, Rene Garcia of Hialeah, is a Republican and chairman of the Florida
Hispanic Caucus. "When you're an American citizen, you're an American citizen,"
he said.


     ·    Breathing While Undocumented
     ·    Across the Border, Over the Line
     ·    Scaling the 'Wall in the Head'
     ·    Cruel and Unusual: A President's 'Pardon' as Dark Parody
     ·    Reasonable Expectations


LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              164 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Getting Tough On Immigrants To Turn a Profit

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN; Matt Siegel contributed reporting from Sydney,
Australia.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2026 words


The men showed up in a small town in Australia's outback early last year,
offering top dollar for all available lodgings. Within days, their company,
Serco, was flying in recruits from as far away as London, and busing them from
trailers to work 12-hour shifts as guards in a remote camp where immigrants
seeking asylum are indefinitely detained.

It was just a small part of a pattern on three continents where a handful of
multinational security companies have been turning crackdowns on immigration
into a growing global industry.

Especially in Britain, the United States and Australia, governments of different
stripes have increasingly looked to such companies to expand detention and show
voters they are enforcing tougher immigration laws.

Some of the companies are huge -- one is among the largest private employers in
the world -- and they say they are meeting demand faster and less expensively
than the public sector could.

But the ballooning of privatized detention has been accompanied by scathing
inspection reports, lawsuits and the documentation of widespread abuse and
neglect, sometimes lethal. Human rights groups say detention has neither worked
as a deterrent nor speeded deportation, as governments contend, and some worry
about the creation of a ''detention-industrial complex'' with a momentum of its
own.

''They're very good at the glossy brochure,'' said Kaye Bernard, general
secretary of the union of detention workers on the Australian territory of
Christmas Island, where riots erupted this year between asylum seekers and
guards. ''On the ground, it's almost laughable, the chaos and the inability to
function.''

Private prisons in the United States have long stirred controversy. But while
there have been conflicting studies about their costs and benefits, no
systematic comparisons exist for immigration detention, say scholars like
Matthew J. Gibney, a political scientist at the University of Oxford who tracks
immigration systems.

Still, Mr. Gibney and others say the pitfalls of outsourcing immigration
enforcement have become evident in the past 15 years. ''When something goes
wrong -- a death, an escape -- the government can blame it on a kind of market
failure instead of an accountability failure,'' he said.

In the United States -- with almost 400,000 annual detentions in 2010, up from
280,000 in 2005 -- private companies now control nearly half of all detention
beds, compared with only 8 percent in state and federal prisons, according to
government figures. In Britain, 7 of 11 detention centers and most short-term
holding places for immigrants are run by for-profit contractors.

No country has more completely outsourced immigration enforcement, with more
troubled results, than Australia. Under unusually severe mandatory detention
laws, the system has been run by a succession of three publicly traded companies
since 1998. All three are now major players in the international business of
locking up and transporting unwanted foreigners.

The first, the Florida-based prison company GEO Group, lost its Australia
contract in 2003 amid a commission's findings that detained children were
subjected to cruel treatment. An Australian government audit reported that the
contract had not delivered ''value-for-money.'' In the United States, GEO
controls 7,000 of 32,000 detention beds.

The second company, G4S, an Anglo-Danish security conglomerate with more than
600,000 employees in 125 countries, was faulted for lethal neglect and abusive
use of solitary confinement in Australia. By the middle of the past decade,
after refugee children had sewed their lips together during hunger strikes in
camps like Woomera and Curtin, and government commissions discovered that
Australian citizens and legal residents were being wrongly detained and
deported, protests pushed the Liberal Party government to dismantle some aspects
of the system.

But after promising to return the work to the public sector, a Labor government
awarded a five-year, $370 million contract to Serco in 2009. The value of the
contract has since soared beyond $756 million as detention sites quadrupled, to
24, and the number of detainees ballooned to 6,700 from 1,000.

Dangerous Problems

Over the past year, riots, fires and suicidal protests left millions of dollars
in damage at Serco-run centers from Christmas Island to Villawood, outside
Sydney, and self-harm by detainees rose twelvefold, government documents show.
In August, a government inspection report cited dangerous overcrowding,
inadequate and ill-trained staff, no crisis planning and no requirement that
Serco add employees when population exceeded capacity.

At the detention center Serco runs in Villawood, immigrants spoke of long,
open-ended detentions making them crazy. Alwy Fadhel, 33, an Indonesian
Christian who said he needed asylum from Islamic persecution, had long black
hair coming out in clumps after being held for more than three years, in and out
of solitary confinement.

''We talk to ourselves,'' Mr. Fadhel said. ''We talk to the mirror; we talk to
the wall.''

Naomi Leong, a shy 9-year-old, was born in the detention camp. For more than
three years, at a cost of about $380,000, she and her mother were held behind
its barbed wire. Psychiatrists said Naomi was growing up mute, banging her head
against the walls while her mother, Virginia Leong, a Malaysian citizen accused
of trying to use a false passport, sank into depression.

Naomi and her mother became a cause celebre in protests against the mandatory
detention system, leading to their release in 2005 on rare humanitarian visas.
They are now citizens.

''I come here to give little bit of hope to the people,'' Ms. Leong said during
a recent visit to Villawood, where posters display the governing principles of
Serco, beginning with ''We foster an entrepreneurial culture.''

Free-Market Solutions

Companies often say that losing a contract is the ultimate accountability.

''We are acutely aware of our responsibilities and are committed to the humane,
fair and decent treatment of all those in our care,'' a Serco spokesman said in
an e-mail. ''We will continue to work with our customers around the world and
seek to improve the services we provide for them.''

But lost detention contracts are rare and easily replaced in this fast-growing
business. Serco's $10 billion portfolio includes many other businesses, from air
traffic control and visa processing in the United States, to nuclear weapons
maintenance, video surveillance and welfare-to-work programs in Britain, where
it also operates several prisons and two ''immigration removal centers.''

''If one area or territory slows down, we can move where the growth is,''
Christopher Hyman, Serco's chief executive, told investors last year, after
reporting a 35 percent increase in profits. This spring, Serco reported a 13
percent profit rise.

Its rival G4S delivers cash to banks on most continents, runs airport security
in 80 countries and has 1,500 employees in immigration enforcement in Britain,
the Netherlands and the United States, where its services include escorting
illegal border-crossers back to Mexico for the Department of Homeland Security.

Nick Buckles, the chief executive of G4S, would not discuss the company. But
last year he told analysts how its ''justice'' business in the Netherlands
blossomed in one week after the 2002 assassination of a politician with an
anti-immigrant and law-and-order agenda.

''There's nothing like a political crisis to stimulate a bit of change,'' Mr.
Buckles said.

In Britain last fall, the company came under criminal investigation in the
asphyxiation of an Angolan man who died as three G4S escorts held him down on a
British Airways flight. Soon afterward, British immigration authorities
announced that the company had lost its bid to renew a $48 million deportation
escort contract because it was underbid by a competitor.

Even so, G4S has more than $1.1 billion in government contracts in Britain, a
spokesman said, only about $126 million from the immigration authority. It
quickly replaced the lost revenue with contracts to build, lease and run more
police jails and prisons.

In 2007, Western Australia's Human Rights Commission found that G4S drivers had
ignored the cries of detainees locked in a scorching van, leaving them so
dehydrated that one drank his own urine. The company was ordered to pay $500,000
for inhumane treatment, but three of the five victims already had been deported.
Immigration officials, relying on company misinformation, had dismissed their
complaints without investigation, the commission found.

There was a public outcry when an Aborigine man died in another G4S van in
similar circumstances the next year. A coroner ruled in 2009 that G4S, the
drivers and the government shared the blame. The company was later awarded a $70
million, five-year prisoner transport contract in another state, Victoria,
without competition.

G4S pleaded guilty to negligence in the van death this year, and was fined
$285,000. Mr. Buckles, its chief executive, alluded to the case at a meeting
with analysts in March, reassuring them.

''There is only two or three major players, typically sometimes only two people
bidding,'' Mr. Buckles said. ''In time, we will become a winner in that market
because there's a lot of outsourcing opportunities and not many competitors.''

In August, when GEO, the Florida prison company, posted a 40 percent rise in
second-quarter profits, its executives in Boca Raton spoke of new immigration
business on both sides of the Atlantic.

John M. Hurley, a GEO executive for North American operations, cited ''the
continued growth in the criminal alien population,'' larger facilities, and
longer federal contracts, some up to 20 years.

At the company's Reeves County Detention Center in Texas, immigrant inmates
rioted in 2009 and 2010 after several detainees died in solitary confinement.
GEO executives declined to comment. But speaking to shareholders, they credited
much of the quarter's $10 million increase in international revenue to the
expansion of a detention center in Britain, where immigration was a hot issue in
the 2010 election.

A Policy Backfires

''Britain is no longer a soft touch,'' Damian Green, the immigration minister,
said in August 2010 when he visited the center, near Heathrow Airport, reopening
wings that had burned in 2006 during detainee riots under a different private
operator.

The riots started the day the chief inspector of prisons released a blistering
report about abuses there, including excessive waits for deportation. Months
after Mr. Green's appearance, an independent monitoring board complained that at
the expanded center -- now Europe's largest, with 610 detainees -- at least 35
men had been waiting more than a year to be deported, including one locked up
for three years and seven months at a cost of at least $237,000.

The camp that Serco took over in the Australian outback, the Curtin Immigration
Detention Center, had also been shut down amid riots and hunger strikes in 2002.
But it was reopened last year to handle a surge of asylum seekers arriving by
boat even as the government imposed a moratorium on processing their claims.
Refurbished for 300 men, the camp sits on an old air force base and held more
than 1,500 detainees in huts and tents behind an electrified fence. Serco guards
likened the compound to a free-range chicken farm.

On March 28, a 19-year-old Afghan from a group persecuted by the Taliban hanged
himself after 10 months' detention -- the system's fifth suicide in seven
months. A dozen guards, short of sleep and training, found themselves battling
hundreds of grieving, angry detainees for the teenager's body.

''We have lost control,'' said Richard Harding, who served for a decade as
Western Australia's chief prison inspector. He is no enemy of privatization, and
his praise for a Serco-run prison is posted on the company's Web site. But he
said Curtin today was emblematic of ''a flawed arrangement that's going to go
wrong no matter who's running it.''

''These big global companies, in relation to specific activities, are more
powerful than the governments they're dealing with,'' he added.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Australia has relied on private security companies to run
immigrant detention centers in places like Perth, top, and Woomera, the scene of
a detainee breakout in 2002, above. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW QUILTY FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES
 RICK RYCROFT/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A11)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                (Media Decoder)

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday

Interview With the U.S. Copyright Czar

BYLINE: BEN SISARIO

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 1321 words



HIGHLIGHT: Victoria Espinel spoke at the World Copyright Summit in Bussels.


As the first United States intellectual property enforcement coordinator,
Victoria A. Espinel reports to President Obama and Congress on copyright,
trademarks and other intellectual property issues, and works with an array of
federal agencies -- the Justice Department, Immigration and Customs Enforcement
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, among others -- to enforce the law.

The Obama administration has made a point of protecting intellectual property,
and over the last year federal authorities have shut down dozens of Web sites
accused of trafficking in counterfeit medicine, consumer goods and pirated
entertainment like movies and movies.

Ms. Espinel spoke at the World Copyright Summit in Brussels on Wednesday, where
she outlined the Obama administration's policies on intellectual property and
discussed copyright and privacy issues in relation to new technologies like
cloud computing, in which a user's data is stored on remote servers and accessed
over the Internet. Afterward in a phone conversation, she elaborated on some of
the topics from her speech and addressing questions about the progress of the
global war on piracy.

Q. Do you see cloud services as primarily being legal alternatives to illegal
file-sharing networks, or do they present other problems of copyright?

A. I hear it asserted that the cloud is going to cause huge increases in piracy;
I've also heard that the cloud will be the savior. My own view is that the cloud
is neutral. It's not inherently predisposed to be legal or illegal. I think the
capacity for storage in the cloud and the flexibility of cloud-based services
mean that there is more scope now to develop truly compelling legal alternatives
that consumers will really like. But you can build a cloud-based service that's
illegal, and you can build a cloud-based service that is legal. As the
government, as the Obama administration, what we want to try to do is encourage
the building of legal alternatives and try to get the illegal alternatives off
the Internet.

Q. Are there any promising signs that infringement on the Internet is coming
under control, or is it generally getting worse? A. There are promising signs,
and there are also challenges. And the challenges that we face have been there
for along time but arguably some of them are going to intensify.

One of the things that the U.S. government can do is make absolutely clear to
our public that online infringement is completely unacceptable behavior. And by
increasing law enforcement efforts as we have, we can help send that signal and
thereby change the perception of what is appropriate and inappropriate online.
In terms of digital literacy and how the public should be interacting with the
Internet, that is something we want to do in many areas, including intellectual
property enforcement.

These cloud-based locker services, if those work -- and by that I mean, if they
respond to consumer preferences in a way that works well for consumers, and they
are legal alternatives -- then I think that's a tremendous amount of promise.
Because we have to have legal alternatives that work in the way consumers want
them to work. Not just to be effective in terms of enforcement, but to give
consumers in the marketplace what they are looking for.

In terms of the challenges of piracy and the distribution of counterfeit goods
over the Internet, criminals will look for ways to evade whatever enforcement
there is. So part of what we've already seen, but I think we'll see more of, is
criminals looking for safe havens in other countries, and that is the reason why
having close cooperation with Europe, and with other countries, is going to be
extremely important.

Q. Are there particular concerns about copyright or privacy that come up in
regard to cloud computing?

A. Generally it seems to me that the issues coming up are variations of issues
that have already come up with the advent of the Internet. The cloud can
intensify or accelerate the pace at which we as a government need to address
those issues, and which the marketplace needs to address those issues.

One of the things that will be interesting is that the flexibility of
cloud-based services, the fact that they allow consumers to access music,
movies, whatever content they want, is that it may have an interesting impact of
what our concept ownership is. It's my opinion that there still a strong bias
for consumers to own something, to own a piece of music or a movie. I don't
think that desire for ownership is going to go away. But I do think that the way
cloud based services work may start to change our idea of what ownership means.

Q. As you said, so much of the infringement happens beyond U.S. borders. How are
you able to deal with foreign jurisdictions, and what kind of success have we
been having in pursuing criminal activity in other countries?

It's a big challenge. I would note three things. First, we in United States have
a good and strong legal system, although we do think we can make improvements,
and we sent recommendations to Congress for improvements. But there are other
countries where there are serious and significant deficiencies in their legal
systems, and the U.S. will continue to press those countries to address those
deficiencies. Attorney General Holder has made that clear on multiple occasions.
Second, even in countries where there are strong legal systems we need to have
better and increased law enforcement by those countries. There are a number of
ways the United States is working to make that happen. We are in the process of
putting more U.S. law enforcement personnel overseas. We already have good
cross-border cooperation with some countries, but we need to expand the number
of counties where that is true. That is true in China, as an example.

That is something we will continue to press at very senior levels. Another thing
I would mention is the notorious markets list that the U.S. Trade Representative
recently released. Part of the point of that list is to educate consumers, but
part of it is also to encourage governments to do more when they have
significant infringing, rogue websites in their own backyards.

The last thing is that we need to protect our own citizens as much as we can.
One thing we can do with respect to foreign-based Web sites, even if we cannot
prevent them from selling counterfeit or pirate goods to citizens of other
countries, is try to restrict their access to the U.S. market. Obviously we
would like them to stop operating globally, but we will at least do what we can
to stop them from being able to prey on U.S. consumers. So we are working with a
host of Internet technology companies on voluntary basis to see what we can do
to cut them off.

Q. One thing that has happened in the enforcement of intellectual property laws
is the seizing of Web sites that are accused of copyright infringement. When
they are seized, are you concerned about the implications for lawful and non
infringing speech on those sites? How do you reconcile the fact that there is
often legal, First Amendment-protected speech on those sites, mixed in with some
potentially infringing material?

A. Operation In Our Sites, which is the operation you are referring to, is the
first coordinated effort by the U.S. government to go after Web sites that are
engaged in substantial amounts of criminally infringing activity. In the United
States our legal system incorporates fundamental principles of due process and
free speech, and those policy principles are extremely important to this
administration.

So Operation In Our Sites, and the manner in which it's being carried out, has
safeguards to protect to those policy principles. And I think that having
increased law enforcement that is consistent with those values is what the
United States should be doing, and I think that can and will be a good example
to other countries as they are assessing how to fight online infringement.

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              166 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 9, 2011 Thursday

To Rand Paul, Legal Immigration Is Also a Concern

BYLINE: EMMARIE HUETTEMAN

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 376 words



HIGHLIGHT: Senator Rand Paul asks whether the government is adequately screening
and then keeping tabs on those who enter the country with student visas or as
refugees.


It's common to hear a senator express concerns about illegal immigration these
days, but Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, is also concerned about
legal immigration.

"We have 40,000 students coming to this country from all over the world," he
said. "Are they would-be attackers?"

Speaking at a Senate Homeland Security Committee hearing on border patrol
corruption, Mr. Paul on Thursday questioned whether the government was
adequately screening and then keeping tabs on those who enter the country with
student visas or as refugees.

He cited the recent arrest of two Iraqi refugees on terrorism charges in his
hometown of Bowling Green, Ky.; the men are accused of trying to send weapons
and money to Al Qaeda. Mr. Paul said the fingerprints of one of the men had been
found on an unused improvised explosive device in Iraq.

But while Mr. Paul said he worried about legal immigrants, he was not concerned
about the potential threat from American citizens.

"We've done so many things to think that we're all terrorists, that universally
we have to scrutinize everybody to the Nth degree instead of doing what I just
think would be good police work," Mr. Paul said, adding that it would be less
expensive and less intrusive to privacy if the country looked at "the people who
did attack us and who continue to attack us, and not really U.S. citizens."

Alan D. Bersin, commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, said one million
people enter the United States every day, a number that includes immigrants but
also American citizens returning from  abroad. He cautioned Mr. Paul against
dismissing citizens as a potential threat.

"If we look at a Faisal Shahzad, who was a U.S. citizen, naturalized, we have to
recognize that this risk assessment system can't just be cut," Mr. Bersin said.

Faisal Shahzad, a Pakistani immigrant, was accused of trying to detonate a car
bomb in Times Square last year.

Mr. Paul said there were factors that should raise a red flag about whether a
citizen could pose a threat, including if an American had frequently traveled to
Yemen, for example.

"It's not as simple as what your religion is or color your skin is or any of
that. It's more complicated," he said. "But it's a whole host of figures that we
need to look at."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              167 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

25 Charged With Having Images of Child Sexual Abuse

BYLINE: COLIN MOYNIHAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 542 words



HIGHLIGHT: The defendants, including a lawyer and a substitute teacher,
stockpiled images of the rape and sexual assault of tens of thousands of
children, according to the Manhattan district attorney.


Updated, 4:35 p.m. |  The Manhattan district attorney, Cyrus R. Vance Jr.,
announced Tuesday afternoon that his office had filed charges against 25 people
accused of possessing images or videos showing the sexual abuse of children.

The defendants include an architect, a lawyer, a dishwasher and a deli worker.
One defendant worked at a children's shoe store and another worked as a
substitute teacher at several public schools in Manhattan.

The charges were a result of a five-month investigation conducted by the
district attorney's office and the United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement office, part of the Department of Homeland Security. Most of the
defendants were charged with promoting a sexual performance by a child and
possessing a sexual performance by a child, both felonies.

"These defendants stockpiled images of the brutal rapes and sexual assaults of
tens of thousands of real children," Mr. Vance said in a statement. "These
victims were forced into physically and psychologically damaging sexual assaults
that were recorded and disseminated online, feeding the appetites of pedophiles
for more victims."

Mr. Vance said that the defendants "carefully labeled, sorted and shared"
photographs and videos showing children as young as a year old involved in
sexual acts with adults.

Mr. Vance said that the defendants, who ranged in age from 18 to 63, had
gathered the explicit images through online peer-to-peer networks typically used
to exchange music files.  So far, 17 defendants have been indicted in New York
State Supreme Court.  Eight others have been arraigned in Criminal Court.

They have been arrested, arraigned and indicted one by one, Mr. Vance said, as
the investigation has proceeded. More arrests could result from the
investigation, he said.

Some defendants, he said, expressed a desire to carry out sexual abuse
themselves, and at least one had shown graphic images to children.

The authorities said that Glen Barfield, 39, an architect, told investigators
that he used an Internet-chat function to show images of sexual assault against
a child to a 16-year-old boy in Canada.

One defendant, Joshua Ruiz, 32, appeared in court Tuesday morning in connection
with the case. Prosecutors said that Mr. Ruiz - who has been a substitute
teacher at Public School 199 and Public School 166 on the Upper West Side and
P.S. 111 in Hell's Kitchen - had downloaded images of child sexual assault and
had electronic discussions about committing sexual assault against children.

"He sought advice in online chats from like-minded pedophiles on having sex with
children, how to approach children, where to meet them and what to say to them,"
Mr. Vance said.

Mr. Ruiz has pleaded not guilty.

Officials from the district attorney's office said they would give the images
collected as part of the investigation to the National Center for Missing and
Exploited Children, a nonprofit organization in Virginia that maintains a
database of seized material as part of its Child Victim Identification Program.

     ·    Cuomo Supports DNA Collection Legislation
     ·    Bill Aims to Protect Hotel Workers From Sexual Abuse
     ·    District Attorney Cuts Jobs; Law Firms' Earnings Rise
     ·    Vance Steps Up Fight Against Corruption
     ·    Dozens of Cabbies Are Arrested in Fare Scheme


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              168 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             June 14, 2011 Tuesday

Century-Old Immigration Debate Has Familiar Sound

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 959 words



HIGHLIGHT: Today's debate on immigration echoes a 1911 controversy involving
immigrants on the Lower East Side.


Until recently, Morris Claman's legacy to New York has been the few surviving
manhole and coal chute covers in Manhattan and Brooklyn that bear the logo of
his stove parts and repair business on Orchard Street as well, of course, as his
descendants. But it turns out that he had left something else behind: his anger
over an immigration debate that is still being echoed today.

Mr. Claman and some of his fellow Lower East Siders were angered at comments by
William Williams, the federal commissioner of immigration for the Port of New
York, who in his June 30, 1911, annual report lamented the influx from Southern
and Eastern Europe of "backward races with customs and institutions widely
different from ours and without the capacity of assimilating with our people as
did the early immigrants."         Singling out residents of Elizabeth, Orchard,
Rivington and East Houston Streets, the commissioner complained that they came
to America with  "filthy habits and are of an ignorance which passes belief" and
"often herd together, forming in effect foreign colonies in which the English
language is almost unknown."

Mr. Claman, himself an immigrant from Eastern Europe, joined a citizens
committee of other neighborhood residents in a letter and petition (see also
below) to President William Howard Taft demanding that Mr. Williams retract his
remarks. The commissioner, a Republican who cleaned up corruption on Ellis
Island, but also favored rigid restrictions on "low-grade immigrants," had been
reappointed by Mr. Taft after being forced out by President Theodore Roosevelt
of New York.

In 1909, deportations rose 35 percent, in part because Mr. Williams concluded
that "in most cases it will be unsafe for immigrants to arrive with less than
$25 in addition to their railroad ticket to their final destination." He pointed
out that the steamship Raglan Castle had recently landed with 305 steerage
passengers - 70 arrived with no money at all.

The committee's petition was discovered by a reporter rummaging through the
National Archives. No response from the president turned up. But the
commissioner's remarks touched off a debate in Congress, fueled, in part, by the
committee's accompanying survey of the average 594 persons living on each of the
streets' 57 blocks. (Morris Claman's last name was spelled "Claiman" by whoever
typed the petition.)

"Although most of the residents of these streets are of foreign birth," the
committee wrote, "they have come to this country for the purpose of establishing
permanent homes, of rearing and educating their children as good Americans and
of enjoying the blessings of freedom, at the same time assuming and performing
the obligations which residence and citizenship entail."

The committee counted 104 religious congregations, 53 Hebrew Schools and 9
public schools; 117 grocery stores, 112 candy stores, 107 restaurants, 93
butcher shops, 70 saloons, 36 newsstands and only 2 pawn shops; 109 men's and
ladies' tailors, 78 barbers, 40 dentists, 23 lawyers and 11 cantors and rabbis.

The large number of shops selling luxury goods and the small number of pawn
shops demonstrated the residents' thrift and their capacity "to save money over
and beyond living expenses," the committee said. Children deposited over $7,000
in a bank connected with the University Settlement, whose head worker, Robbins
Gilman, was quoted as saying:

"There is no evidence that the United States is likely to suffer from a civic
point of view as a result of the addition of citizens from the children and
other minors of this district. On the contrary, every indication points to an
enrichment of citizenship."

The committee also reported that the Seward Park Branch of the New York Public
Library circulated half a million books in 1911 (more, it said, than any other
branch library in the world), that at Public School 188 on Houston and Lewis
Streets, only 11 of the 1,500 boys older than 10 did not have library cards,
that only 8 of the school's 2,500 boys were arrested during the year, mostly on
trivial charges, and that only one "evinced serious moral delinquency."

Moreover, on average, newly arrived foreign-born students are "sufficiently
qualified in English to enter the general classes and to keep up with the work"
within two or three months.

Mr. Claman's store was at 97 Orchard Street, now home to the Lower East Side
Tenement Museum (The store later moved to 94 Orchard, if you're wondering why
the coal chute cover in the photo above shows that address. The family business
was eventually taken over by Morris's son Irving, which explains the "I Claman"
on the cover.)

Researching an exhibit on 97 Orchard's former shopkeepers, David Favaloro, the
museum's director of curatorial affairs, found that the store was inherited by
Mr. Claman's son, Irving, who raised his family in Flatbush, Brooklyn. Irving's
son, Morris, known as Mike, raised his children in suburban Westchester. His son
graduated from Harvard Law School, his daughter from the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology with a doctorate in neurophysiology.

Mike Claman, an 83-year-old retired furniture designer and manufacturer and
amateur painter, lives in Manhattan. He was asked the other day whether
immigrants today differ from the waves of Jews and Italians who arrived a
century ago.

"No," he replied. "They have many of the same traits: hopefulness, a basic
truthfulness, an ethic of rolling up their sleeves, not complaining and looking
straightforward at the opportunities of life."

     ·    'Endangered' Lower East Side? What's New, Some Ask
     ·    Revisiting the Other Half of Jacob Riis
     ·    Answers About Immigration on the Lower East Side, Part 2
     ·    Answers About Immigration on the Lower East Side
     ·    Ask About the Immigrant Experience on the Lower East Side


LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              169 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday

Modern Agonies in Ancient Mexican Villages

BYLINE: JOE PROUDMAN

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 287 words



HIGHLIGHT: To find out more about the immigration crisis in California, Matt
Black traveled - arduously - through a remote region south of Mexico City.


Journalists from the United States often stop at the Mexican border when they're
covering immigration issues, almost as if the crisis starts and stops on this
side.

Matt Black, 40, who has spent years documenting the migrant population in the
Central Valley ("Oaxacan Exodus"), could very well see the effects in
California. But for "People of the Clouds," he wanted to understand what has
happening on the other side of the border.

It's not easy. To get to the remote Mixteca mountain region - including parts of
the states of Oaxaca, Guerrero and Puebla - he typically takes a 12-hour bus
ride from Mexico City to a highway town, from which he either hitches a ride in
the back of a truck or walks to the villages where he photographs. As he did in
the Central Valley, Mr. Black immerses himself in his subject, spending up to
six weeks in the region.

His grainy, black-and-white pictures show a culture that has not been greatly
touched by the modern world and communities that have lost most of their
population, like the village of San Miguel Cuevas. "In the span of a generation,
this whole culture is vanishing," Mr. Black said. "You can't find anyone between
the ages of 16 and 45."

Mr. Black has been working on this story 10 years. He is not yet finished. In
fact, he has begun a campaign on Kickstarter to raise money for a return trip to
the Mixteca region, a once-fertile area that has turned into a dustbowl. In this
way, he can investigate the environmental forces behind the migration. Still, he
said, "It's about the people first and foremost."

     ·    An Ancient Culture in Mountainous Mexico
     ·    Showcase: A Story, Waiting to Happen
     ·    Silent Sentinels Along a Vast Frontier
     ·    Chasing Stigma in Indonesia
     ·    A Warm Feeling for the Arctic


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              170 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (Motherlode)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday

A Mother's Fear of Losing Everything

BYLINE: LISA BELKIN

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 1156 words



HIGHLIGHT: Facing deportation, and bankruptcy and loss of a home, one mother
feels "torn."


Perhaps the hardest essay to read in the "Torn" anthology is by Kezia
Willingham, who now works for the Head Start program in Seattle, and is also an
advocate for immigration reform.

Both those causes are personal. A former high school dropout and single mother,
Kezia lived on welfare in public housing when her daughter was born 14 years
ago, and managed to get herself both a college diploma and a master's degree
since then. Now married (and mother to two more sons), her husband was
threatened with deportation a year ago, and, as she writes: ... if we were to
appeal the decision, it could take as long as two years for the paperwork to be
processed and cost at least $10,000 more than the $10,000 we'd already placed on
his credit cards for the application that had been denied. We were in the
process of closing on a $300,000 home, I had $70,000 in student-loan debt, and
my husband was still paying off his last attempt to try to become a permanent
resident of this country ...Why does Kezia work? For all the obvious reasons.
Food. Shelter. Her husband cannot, because he is not documented, so he stays
home with their children.

Why does she feel "torn"?  By fear that she could lose everything.

She writes:On paper, I make more than I ever have before. I am a homeowner. On
the outside it would appear that I "have it all." In reality the mortgage takes
up 85 percent of my net earnings. There is not enough left to feed my family. My
husband will most likely be deported. Panic and anxiety are as much a part of my
daily functioning as breath. I've never felt quite as hopeless as I do now.Kezia
has been reading the comments in the Motherlode Book Club discussion, and she is
torn about those too. She is glad for the attention to the book, she says, but
struck by the hostility of many to the choices of others. She sent me a long
e-mail yesterday, which she's agreed to let me reprint here. (She also left a
similar message in the comments yesterday.)

She writes:As perhaps one of the least financially privileged contributors to
the "Torn" anthology, I have found the negative reaction to the book to be
interesting.

While it is very easy to write a negative comment or review of a book, and
people should if that's how they feel, as a newly published writer, I have
learned that it can be quite a growth process to even have the confidence to
submit a piece of writing for publication.  When you write an essay, you open
your life, your thoughts, and feelings up for the public, in an attempt to reach
someone out there who perhaps has been in a similar experience.  You don't write
with the intention of making people happy who don't like you, or your choices,
or your lifestyle.

One of the most prevalent criticisms of the book is that it is written primarily
by financially privileged women.

As the only contributor who is both a high school dropout and in possession of a
master's degree, I can tell you that people who grow up in poverty are not
highly inclined to share their life experiences with the general public.  It was
a huge turning point for me in my personal development when I began writing a
year ago.  I was holding inside so much angst, such a feeling of powerlessness
and isolation, that I needed to express somehow.  I wanted to hear about other
women such as myself, struggling with survival, while trying simultaneously to
be emotionally present and engaged with my children at the same time.  I wanted
to find other women, particularly American women, who are dealing with
immigration issues that have potentially enormous long-term consequences on the
well being of our families.

I know that most people in my situation would probably not want to draw
attention to themselves.  As someone with personal involvement in the immigrant
community, I know that there are thousands, if not millions of people residing
in this country, gardeners, janitors, childcare workers, home health aides,
housekeepers, fast food employees, people who are in our homes, communities,
schools, who are struggling to survive in a chronic state of fear with little
access to information or resources.

My goal, eventually, is to raise immigration reform as a necessity for American
children and spouses.  But before I get to such a platform, I chose when and
where to speak my story with caution.  I depend on my husband to provide care
for my son while I work.  I work only because I have to, not because I want to.
When I first became a mother, 14 years ago, I was young, single, without an
education or even a driver's license.  I applied for welfare and worked part
time before returning to college to pursue my formal education.  It's taken me
more than a decade to finally earn $24 an hour, a wage I am proud of, but which
is probably nothing compared to most of your readers.  I finally own my own home
after being on Section 8 (subsidized housing) for a decade.  From the moment I
first became pregnant, I wanted nothing more than to be a stay-at-home mother.
I wanted to devote my time and energy to child rearing, to cooking, to cleaning,
and, yes, reading and volunteering.  In my late 30s now, I know this dream has
come and gone.  So I work because I have to, like most of my friends who are
also employed mothers -- school district employees, waitresses, childcare
workers.

It's true that "Torn" does not have a large selection of writing by women like
me.  And I don't think that was Samantha's focus.  But most women from my
background aren't trying to put our personal business out there for judgement by
the general public, if we even own computers and can scrape up the time  to
craft an essay.

And I can tell you that getting published is not easy; I have had way more
rejection than I have pieces accepted for publication.  My essay in "Torn" was
the second I ever had published, I wrote it almost exactly a year ago.  I'd like
to think that I've grown as a writer since then, but I can tell you, and your
readers, that writing your personal business and putting it out there for the
world to see takes a lot of balls (please forgive the expression, but I can't
think of another one that has the same meaning).  Personally, I enjoyed reading
others' experiences in "Torn," because it allowed me, a working-class woman, to
see that more privileged women struggle too.  It made me feel a bit less angst
than I do when I am caught up in my head about my own shortcomings.  I want to
hear women's raw and truthful stories, and I want to see women support each
other instead of getting caught up in endless judgements.  "Torn" may not be the
all-encompassing book on every woman's or man's experience on parenting.  And I
don't think it should be. It is one book, by one editor who clearly found
something in each contributor's story.  I don't like every essay in there
either, but I appreciate each woman who took the time to sit down and share her
experience for me to learn from.

Sincerely,Kezia WillinghamSeattle

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              171 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                            June 22, 2011 Wednesday

Across the World, Less Interest in Leaving Home

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 259 words



HIGHLIGHT: Gallup found that 14 percent of the world's adults said they would
migrate to another country if they could in a 2008-10 survey, down from 16
percent in 2007-9.


Fewer residents of the world are trying to get out of Dodge, according to
Gallup.

The polling organization found that 14 percent of the world's adults would be
interested in migrating to another country if they could. That is down from the
16 percent of adults with the same desire in 2007.

The numbers are based on telephone and face-to-face interviews with 401,490
adults in 146 countries from 2008 to 2010, and 259,542 adults in 135 countries
from 2007 to 2009.

Residents of every area of the world except North America and the European Union
decreased their desire to emigrate:

The biggest decline was in sub-Saharan Africa, although the share of people
there wanting to move is still  high: 33 percent in 2008-10, versus 38 percent
in 2007-9.

Perhaps these declines are signs of improving economic and political conditions
in the developing world. Gallup's analysts, however, suggest that instead the
trends may be explained by greater economic uncertainty worldwide, which would
make emigration riskier than usual.

For those who did say they wanted to leave their homelands, the most desirable
country to move to is the United States, where about a quarter of
emigrant-wannabes would choose to land. The next most pined-for destinations are
the United Kingdom and Canada. The top non-Western destination, a few places
down, is Saudi Arabia.

     ·    The Job Market for Immigrants
     ·    U.N. Development Expert Pedro Conceicao Answers Your Questions
     ·    More (Wealthy) Americans Are Renouncing Citizenship
     ·    Dimming Optimism for Today's Youth
     ·    The Two-Track Recovery (or 'Depression'?)


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              172 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday

Enter Huntsman: Answers From Matt Bai

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1559 words



HIGHLIGHT: Matt Bai took reader questions this week and we've compiled his
answers to select questions here.


In his profile of Jon M. Huntsman Jr., who entered the race for the Republican
presidential nomination this week, Matt Bai, The New York Times Magazine's chief
political correspondent, answered a lot of questions about the relatively
unknown former governor of Utah. He took reader questions this week and we've
compiled his answers to select questions here.Q.Which high school did he attend?
Public or private?

--  Posted by Frank J. Carnabuci IIIA.An excellent question, Frank, and I did
not know the answer, so I did some reporting on your behalf. Turns out Mr.
Huntsman attended Palo Alto High School, a public school, before dropping out to
pursue his dream of becoming the next Freddie Mercury. He later earned a G.E.D.
He went on the University of Utah and graduated from the University of
Pennsylvania, where his father's name adorns a building.Q.Has he made any
definitive statements in regards to where he stands on immigration in general
... and illegal immigration in specific?

--  Posted by RCA.I don't know if he's made any definitive statements yet, RC,
but I have heard him talk informally about the issue, and he says he thinks it's
important for us to help the children of undocumented immigrants assimilate into
the country, rather than punishing them for being here. Without divulging
conversations I witnessed that were off the record, I can tell you that he is
pretty firm on this point, even when challenged by his own supporters.Q.Does Mr.
Huntsman gain any advantage in the presidential race from his ties to China (or
from his distance from China -- he wasn't the most loved U.S. ambassador after
his stumble or deliberate step into the molihua [or jasmine] revolution)?

--  Posted by EmilyA.I could see how his experience in China could be a real
strength, because it enables him to talk about global competitiveness firsthand,
and about how China is preparing itself for the coming decades in ways that we
may not be. But as I asked Mr. Huntsman at one point: How do you talk about what
China is doing in infrastructure and education without also making the case that
the United States needs public investment in order to keep up?

For what it's worth, this was, in part, his response:  "We can only afford
large-scale public investment if we get our books balanced and if there's some
national desire to move ahead on something like national infrastructure
enhancements, which is exactly what the Chinese have done. They can afford to do
it. They have $2.4 trillion in the bank. They earned their money first. They
earned it by becoming the most powerful export machine the world has ever known.
They didn't start with infrastructure enhancements."Q.Mr. Huntsman claims to
have built jobs, not bought them. What is his role in his "family" chemicals
conglomerate?

--  Posted by J FritzscheA.He worked there as an executive in between government
jobs. Near as I can tell, it's the only private sector job Mr. Huntsman has ever
held, unless you count clearing dishes at Marie Callendar's. Which raises an
interesting point about Mr. Huntsman that I think will arise in the campaign if
he gains any traction as a candidate: While he's clearly been able at many jobs
and made the most of his opportunities in life, just about all of those
opportunities have stemmed in some way from his family's wealth and
connections.Q.Will the evangelicals in the Republican Party-base shy away from
Mr. Huntsman because of his religious faith? Will the party elders (Rove et al.)
shy away from him because of his potential lack of support from the
evangelicals? What backroom dealing is going on right now to try and sew the two
groups together to be unified?

--  Posted by Randy MA.Good question, Randy, and I think this would be a bigger
issue if Mr. Huntsman were the only Mormon in the race. But since the presumed
front-runner, Mitt Romney, is also Mormon and has run before, it seems to me a
minor consideration. Mr. Huntsman will surely not attract a lot of evangelical
followers, but that's much more likely to be because he supports civil unions
for gay couples than because of his faith.Q.Does he still stand by his speech at
the 2008 G.O.P. convention introducing and endorsing Sarah Palin for V.P. of the
United States of America? Would he consider Sarah Palin to be his running mate?
Why or why not?

--  Posted by Cowboy A.I wish I'd asked him that question. I didn't.Q.Will the
fact that Mr. Huntsman worked for President Obama make him intolerable to the
Tea Party?

--  Posted by Mark L.A.Probably, yes.Q.As a progressive who volunteered time and
money for Obama's campaign last time around, it's unlikely that in the end my
vote could be swayed in 2012. However, I was intrigued a few months ago to read
about Mr. Huntsman's intention to be very careful about the campaign donations
he accepts. I don't remember the details, but the purported intent was to avoid
corporate donors, etc. Is he still intending to do this, and how significant of
a step do you think it would be?

--  Posted by Sally LA.I didn't hear him say anything about corporate donors,
Sally, and I'd be surprised if he can afford to be very discerning that way. I
did ask him about self-financing his campaign, and he flatly said he wouldn't
and couldn't do that-wouldn't because he thinks a viable candidate needs to be
able to attract investors, and couldn't because he just isn't wealthy enough.
(Mr. Huntsman's father has said he intends to give all his billion-plus dollars
away to charity.) I suggested he sell his motorcycles. He declined.Q.Matt, I
just don't get this candidacy. There's another Mormon with strong Utah ties in
the race, and Mr. Huntsman is basically . . . to the left of him. Exactly what
constituency, other than Penn graduates, does he hope to appeal to? Or is he
simply hoping that Mr. Romney will crash (see Romney, George, 1968) and pick up
the pieces?

--  Posted by michael a. livingstonA.I think, Michael, that Mr. Huntsman is
betting a lot on authenticity, as he told me in the piece. Mr. Romney has worked
hard to win over conservative activists and disavow his more moderate record in
Massachusetts. Mr. Huntsman isn't above changing a few positions either (he has,
for instance, abandoned his onetime support for cap-and-trade), but he's going
to present himself as a guy who doesn't tell you whatever you want to hear and
who stays constant in his beliefs.Q.Because of his relations with China, do you
think American relations with China will increase and strengthen if he becomes
president?

--  Posted by JasonA.I think China would become a very central focus for a
President Huntsman, if such a thing were ever to come to pass. He's clearly
obsessed with the place and always has been. His eyes light up whenever he so
much as sees a Chinese speaker.Q.What kind of beer does he drink?  It's
important.

--  Posted by RCA.And if he'd invited me out for a beer, I'd know. In five days
with Mr. Huntsman, I never personally witnessed him eating or drinking. Maybe
he's a droid.Q.Does he believe in God? And, if so, why?

--  Posted by TedSA.I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that he does
believe in God. I thought it was interesting that at one point, when we were
discussing what it was like to campaign in New Hampshire, Mr. Huntsman described
it as "the quintessential end of the refiner's fire." That's a Biblical
reference that's popular in the Mormon faith, and what it said to me is that
he's pretty comfortable with his religious grounding.Q.Do you think Mr. Huntsman
will even run that hard this election cycle? It seems to me his primary gambit
is still to establish a name, network, cachet and other assets for 2016. If Mr.
Romney or another Republican loses to Obama in 2012 (as I suspect will be the
case given the multimonth trend of a slightly improving economy, the incumbent's
natural advantage, the killing of Bin Laden and other Obama strengths), then
Republicans could relatively quickly cohere around a single candidate in 2016 a
la Dole, Bush and McCain with the singular aim of retaking the White House. Mr.
Huntsman should be extremely well positioned in 2016 should that happen.

--  Posted by SUA.This is, in fact, a very popular theory of Mr. Huntsman's
motives, and I address it in the piece. But I have to tell you that, in my
experience, it's just not in the nature of most serious politicians to run for
any office - including the presidency - expecting to lose. I don't doubt that
2016 is in the back of Mr. Huntsman's mind, but I'm pretty sure this campaign
isn't some clever ploy to set himself up for later. He has convinced himself he
can win now.Q.Do you think Florida will be his firewall, much like Rudy planned
on. Or does he have a good shot down there, with it being [his wife] Mary Kaye's
home state, and his nat'l headquarters in Orlando?

--  Posted by RodgerA.My guess is that if Mr. Huntsman could somehow win or at
least run strong in New Hampshire and South Carolina, then he would be
competitive in Florida. But I doubt you could get to Florida with no momentum
and view it as a firewall. You have to break out in an earlier state, I would
think, which is why Mr. Giuliani's strategy failed.

     ·    Romney to Hold Fund-Rasier in London
     ·    2012 Republicans Respond to Obama Speech
     ·    Huntsman Finishes Opening Day with Big Money Haul
     ·    Can Huntsman Be Civil to Obama and Win?
     ·    Romney Sets Fall Debate Schedule


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              173 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             July 6, 2011 Wednesday

A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser

BYLINE: CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 721 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Day: Possible fabrications in her bid for asylum may complicate
matters for the Guinean woman who says the former I.M.F. chief sexually
assaulted her.


Could it be that when all is said and done, the Guinean woman who has accused
Dominique Strauss-Kahn of sexually assaulting her in a Midtown hotel will find
herself deported?

It is a possibility, immigration lawyers say, though for now it is firmly
planted in the realm of the theoretical. This sordid drama has many more acts to
go. But as one lawyer familiar with comparable situations said to me, "She does
have a potential problem."

At issue is not what did or did not happen in mid-May at the Sofitel New York,
where the woman worked as a housekeeper. We're going much further back, to the
middle of the last decade, when she applied for asylum in this country.

Investigators in the Strauss-Kahn case say she admitted to them that back then,
she had lied to the federal authorities about why she fled Guinea. She said in
her application that government soldiers destroyed her home and beat her and her
husband. Not true, the investigators say she told them. Another story of hers,
about having been gang raped? Also not so.

"She volunteered this information, and I think that has to count for something,"
the woman's lawyer, Kenneth P. Thompson, said Tuesday night. Maybe. Nonetheless,
Mr. Thompson acknowledged that his client runs a risk that "she could be jammed
up."

Officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a division of the Homeland
Security Department, declined to discuss the case. But they are not famous for
smiling on people who make their way into this country through fraud.

In an age when immigration is far from universally regarded as a virtue, you may
be sure that some will want to see the housekeeper punished for having lied. No
doubt, too, others will regard any attempt to deport her as harsh retribution -
"a victim being revictimized," in the words of Aileen Josephs, an immigration
lawyer in West Palm Beach, Fla., who reached out to Mr. Thompson on Tuesday. She
did so, she said, because she was upset about the way details of the asylum
application had been leaked.

One thing is certain: Call it what you will - embellishment or maybe embroidery
- many foreigners seeking refuge in the United States bend the truth about their
backgrounds, sometimes to the breaking point. "I think there's a lot of
exaggerating going on," said John A. Assadi, an immigration lawyer in Manhattan.

A prominent example was another Guinean immigrant, Amadou Diallo, the unarmed
street peddler who was killed in a barrage of police fire in February 1999.
Weeks later, it became known that Mr. Diallo had filed an asylum claim based on
utter falsehoods, about how he was from Mauritania, a human-rights basket case.
Mauritanian soldiers, he said, murdered his parents and imprisoned him and his
uncle. Nothing of the sort had happened.

Those fabrications had nothing to do with the controversy caused by Mr. Diallo's
death. Still, immigration lawyers said at the time, whenever an asylum seeker in
a high-profile situation is found to have lied, it can jeopardize the prospects
of those with genuine claims of having escaped oppression. There is a similar
risk now.

For immigrants, a lot may depend on the counsel they receive. Not everyone has
high-quality representation. Mr. Assadi said that some people stretch the truth
beyond elasticity simply because others from their homeland have recommended
that they tell the American authorities this or that story. Often, he said, it
is "unwarranted advice."

With the woman in the Strauss-Kahn case, a great deal is unknown. Does she, for
example, have a green card? It's not clear. If she has one, several lawyers
said, it would present an extra hurdle for the government in any effort to toss
her out of the country.

Another question is how severely did she twist reality in her pursuit of asylum.
Though Mr. Assadi has no first-hand knowledge of her case, he said it was always
possible that "maybe she did have a claim and never articulated it properly."

On that last point, everyone seems in agreement. Whatever her circumstances may
have been, she sure didn't articulate them properly.


     ·    For French Tourists, Strauss-Kahn Town House Is Must-See
     ·    Another Black Eye for Cyrus Vance
     ·    Hey, Anyone Know a 'Dominique'? There's a Package for Her
     ·    Bill Aims to Protect Hotel Workers From Sexual Abuse
     ·    Strauss-Kahn Pleads Not Guilty


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              174 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (ArtsBeat)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday

The Fictions of Asylum Seekers in Fiction

BYLINE: JENNIFER B. MCDONALD

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 686 words



HIGHLIGHT: The case of Dominique Strauss-Kahn and the hotel housekeeper has
thrown a spotlight on the fictions of asylum seekers. To readers of contemporary
fiction, this may sound familiar: In "How to Read the Air," a novel by Dinaw
Mengestu published last year, the narrator describes how he worked at a refugee
resettlement center, sorting the applications of asylum seekers - and
embellishing them.


The case of Dominique Strauss-Kahn and the hotel housekeeper has thrown a
spotlight on the fictions of asylum seekers, with the revelation that the West
African woman who accused Strauss-Kahn of sexual assault fabricated details of
her asylum application to the United States.

"The embellished stories go in and out of fashion along with the news of the
day, reflecting turmoil in nations around the globe, lawyers say," Sam Dolnick
reported recently in The Times. "West Africans claim genital mutilation or harm
from the latest political violence. Albanians and immigrants from other Balkan
countries claim they fear ethnic cleansing."

"Of course, thousands of those claims are legitimate," Dolnick added. "But each
cataclysm provides convenient cover stories for immigrants desperate to settle
here for other reasons."

To readers up on their contemporary fiction, this all may sound familiar. In
"How to Read the Air," a novel by Dinaw Mengestu published last year, the
narrator, Jonas Woldemariam, describes how he worked for a spell at a refugee
resettlement center in Manhattan, sorting the applications of asylum seekers -
and, at times, embellishing them.

It is a compassionate portrait. Immigrants seeking help arrive at the center
where Jonas works "pleading to someone to grant them a right" - to safety, to
freedom - "that everyone else they passed on the street, on the subway, and in
traffic took for granted," he asserts. When supervisors encourage him to use his
literary talents to buff up their clients' reports, he responds with enthusiasm:

I was given the job of editing out the less credible or unnecessary parts of
some of the narratives, while at the same time pointing out places where some
stories could be expanded upon or magnified for greater narrative effect.   I
took half-page statements of a coarse and often brutal nature and supplied them
with the details that made them real for the immigration officer who would
someday be reading them. I took "they came at night" and turned it into "We had
all gone to sleep for the evening, my wife, mother, and two children. All the
fires in the village had already been put out, but there was a bright moon, and
it was possible to see even in the darkness the shapes of all the houses. That's
why they attacked that night."

Jonas assigns applications to one of two piles, "the persecuted and not so
persecuted." The less-persecuted "tended to ramble and digress," Jonas notes,
and to "include statements such as 'It's been a dream of mine' or 'The
opportunity to pursue ' " But

there was never that sort of wishful thinking in the others - a cold, almost
hard pragmatism was the rule of the day.   Often there were such statements as:
the village, city, town, country I came from, was born in, lived in for 45, 60
years was taken over, occupied, bombed, burned, destroyed, slaughtered, and I,
my family, my sister, cousin, aunt, uncle, grandparents were arrested, shot,
raped, detained, forced to say, tortured to say, threatened if we did not say
that we would vote, not vote, believed in or did not believe, supported or
denounced the government or movement or religion of X. In the end the
consequences were always the same, and each ended with a similar emphatic note:
We, I, can't, won't, will never be able to go back.

One day a colleague confronts Jonas about a report he has doctored, describing
the plight of a family from Liberia.

"It had been one of my more dramatic and to my ears better efforts," Jonas says:
"the family, as I cast them, forced to take shelter for weeks in a church while
outside a militia stood waiting for them."

"'This isn't even close to what happened,'" the colleague says. "'They flew
business class straight to Dubai.'"

Jonas acknowledges his lies but doesn't see them as wrong. "We lose what we have
and often try to take by force what we don't," he argues. "When has this ever
been news?"

Besides, he reasons: none of what he has written is really made up. "Something
similar had happened to someone else," he says, "although whether I had heard it
in the office or read it in the newspaper I could no longer remember."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              175 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (You're the Boss)

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday

What If You Suspect an Employee is Undocumented?

BYLINE: YOU'RE THE BOSS EDITORS

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 285 words



HIGHLIGHT: And what if it's an employee who's been with you for years and who
has been playing an increasingly important role at your company? What do you do?



We've just published an article by Adriana Gardella that describes the impact of
stepped-up enforcement by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, also known as
ICE, on American small businesses. It cites the example of David Cox, who runs a
family-owned nursery in Visalia, Calif., that was one of 1,444 businesses
audited by ICE in 2009. Last year, 2,196 businesses were audited.

Even though Mr. Cox has always played by the rules in his hiring practices --
and faces no fines or charges -- an ICE audit revealed that 26 of his 99
employees were not authorized to work in the United States, and he was forced to
fire them. While he has struggled to find replacement workers, Mr. Cox says he
has heard that his former employees have found work in the area, some presumably
with his competitors.

It is a dilemma that more and more business owners are likely to face. As Leon
Versfeld, an immigration attorney in Kansas City, Mo., told Ms. Gardella, it's
not just about agriculture businesses that are getting audited and that have
exposure: "Any company is at risk at any given time."

So here's the question:

You have always followed the rules when hiring, but you have come to suspect
that an important employee is here illegally. This employee has been with you
for more than 10 years, pays taxes, has American-born children, and has been
playing an increasingly important role at your company. You've never voiced your
concerns, because you really don't want to know. But you've heard things from
other employees, and now you're worried about what might happen.

What do you do?


     ·    Equal Pay for Equal Work? Not Necessarily
     ·    FreshDirect's Lesson: The Price of Bad Service
     ·    Will FreshDirect's Changes Work?
     ·    Introducing: The Agenda


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              176 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                               (The New Old Age)

                            July 27, 2011 Wednesday

In China, a More Western Approach to Elder Care

BYLINE: PAULA SPAN

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 833 words



HIGHLIGHT: Nursing homes are popping up all over China, a researcher finds,
signaling a sea change in attitudes toward the elder care.


In any discussion here about the decision to move an older person into some sort
of care facility, we can virtually count on a denunciation in the comments
section, often from someone citing immigrant roots.  Americans are too
self-centered, too careerist, goes the criticism.

"I come originally from Argentina and in my culture we respect and honor the
elderly and consider it disgraceful and selfish to put a parent in a nursing
home," Maria Gonzalez from Cleveland wrote last spring.

Dr. Kat Lieu from New York City sounded only slightly less disdainful.  "Maybe
it's because I'm an Asian-American, but I never see myself far away from my
parents," she wrote.  "They had always been there for me.  I will always be
there for them."  She'd never consider a nursing home, she vowed.

Of course, it's demonstrably untrue that Americans by and large are somehow
abandoning their parents.  The great majority of our older adults don't live in
any kind of institution and aren't receiving any paid help, but rely, as always,
on their families.  Most family members aren't cavalier about the decision to
place a family member in assisted living or a nursing home, nor do they walk
away after doing so.

I've often wondered: Do these attitudes really stem from innate national or
cultural differences?  Or are they a function of the way different societies
operate, in which case those values may alter as societies change?

I found it fascinating, therefore, to learn that homes for the elderly are
popping up all over China, where the Confucian principle of "filial piety" has
held sway for millennia.  Zhanlian Feng, the researcher who just reported his
findings on the growing minority populations in American nursing homes,
emigrated from China in 1997 to do graduate work at Brown University, where he
now teaches.

At the time he left his homeland, the old ways still held.  "If you talked to an
adult child and asked, 'If your mother or father gets too sick to care for at
home, would you consider some sort of home or facility?,' they would be
shocked," he told me in an interview. "It was a shameful idea."  Adult children,
particularly sons, were expected to take in their parents. End of story.

But when Dr. Feng returned to China in 2006 with a National Institutes of Health
research grant, "people's attitudes had changed a lot in just a few years," he
said, "even in rural areas where you'd think traditions would have a stronger
hold."

Contemporary China is experiencing many of the same demographic and
socioeconomic pressures as the United States, he recently reported in the
Journal of the American Geriatrics Society. People are living much longer;
family structures are changing; women have entered the workforce. With no
national health insurance program like Medicare and with the one-child policy
that places elder care responsibilities on fewer shoulders, Chinese families
also face some challenges greater than ours.

There's no safety net, Dr. Feng said, and "that has created an escalating need
for care for a lot of aging people."  (A whole lot: roughly 112 million people
over age 65 now, and a projected 329 million by 2040.)

Surveying seven Chinese cities, he found a proliferating number of elder care
homes, the great majority privately built and operating with negligible
government subsidies.  The ancient capital of Nanjing, for example, had 27 homes
in 1990 and 52 a decade later. By 2009, when Dr. Feng and his team began
investigating, the city had 148.  Beijing and Tianjin showed similar growth.
Shanghai had 552 facilities.

It's probably not entirely accurate to call them nursing homes.  With younger
and healthier residents than those found in American nursing homes, these
facilities seem more analogous to independent or assisted living.  Most didn't
employ any nurses or physicians.

Still, they represent a seismic change in the way China cares for its elders.
"We're talking about changes in both generations," Dr. Feng said.  "The younger
generation wants more privacy" and prefers to live in nuclear families.

"You'd imagine the elders would be upset," Dr. Feng went on.  "But they'll tell
you, 'I'd rather live by myself. I'm pretty happy here. I can chat with people,
I can do activities with my peers instead of spending every day with my son's
family.'" He's not sure they're all as delighted as they sound, but most seniors
have small pensions, and "they can purchase autonomy."

(A similar shift took place in the United States in the 1940's, with the advent
of Social Security.)

If attitudes about elder care can change so swiftly in China, it's hard to
believe that any industrializing society is immune.  I expect we'll continue to
hear from some quarters about how other cultures compare to heartless Americans,
but that's not how Dr. Feng sees it.

"Immigrants tend to beautify and mystify a lot of things in their home
countries," he said.  But when he looks at the way older people and families
live in the United States and China, "I see amazing similarities."

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              177 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday

Study Finds More New Yorkers Leaving State

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 263 words



HIGHLIGHT: New York has lost a significant number of people to other states, but
its high birth rate has kept its population from declining.


The tally of people New York has lost to other states since 2000 is the highest
it has been in three decades, but unlike the situation in the 1970s, the surplus
of births over deaths has kept the population from declining.
Over all, it rose to 19.4 million from 18.9 million, according to the 2010
census.

An analysis of census data by the Empire Center for New York State Policy at the
Manhattan Institute found that in the latest decade, New York gained 895,150
immigrants from abroad. The number people who left for other states outnumbered
the number who arrived from other states by more than 1.5 million; it is the
second consecutive decade in which domestic migration loss was the highest of
any state as a percentage of population. All in all, the population declined by
675,00 as a result of migration since 2000.

Twenty other states, mostly in the Northeast and Midwest, lost more residents
than they gained to domestic migration. Combining domestic and foreign
migration, New York - with the third highest rate of loss - was one of 13 states
that suffered a net loss.

New York City attracted a larger number of foreign immigrants than anywhere else
in the state (nearly 690,000), but also recorded the highest loss in domestic
migration (1.1 million).

The Empire Center's study was conducted by E. J. McMahon and Robert Scardamalia.

     ·    Fewer Broken Windows, and a Decline in Crime
     ·    New York and New Jersey Will Lose House Seats
     ·    A Portrait of New York in Numbers
     ·    Don't Look Back, Brooklyn; Houston Is Gaining on You
     ·    Personal Income Drops in New York Region


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              178 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           August 10, 2011 Wednesday

Hispanic Organizations Give Obama and Congress a C

BYLINE: JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 499 words



HIGHLIGHT: Leaders of the nation's major Hispanic organizations warned that even
the small gains Hispanics have seen are at risk of being erased.


Leaders of the nation's major Hispanic organizations, issuing their first
progress report on their priority issues, gave C grades on Wednesday to
President Obama and to Congress for their performance over the last two years.
But they warned that even the small gains Hispanics have seen are at risk of
being erased in negotiations by the bipartisan committee that will recommend
ways to reduce the federal deficit.

The progress report was released by the National Hispanic Leadership Agenda,
which includes N.C.L.R. (also known as the National Council of La Raza), the
Hispanic Federation, the League of United Latin American Citizens, the United
States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and about two dozen other Hispanic
organizations. It examined action, or lack of it, on a blueprint of policy
recommendations the leadership group published in 2008.

For Latinos, the lack of movement toward an immigration overhaul to give legal
status to illegal immigrants overshadowed progress on other issues, Hispanic
leaders said.

Immigration is "clearly an area where the president overpromised and
underdelivered," said Lillian Rodriguez Lopez, the president of the Hispanic
Federation, who is also chairwoman of the leadership coalition. On a conference
call Wednesday, she recalled that Mr. Obama had pledged to take up the overhaul
bill in his first year in office.

"The amount of enforcement activity by the administration has been a great
disappointment to our community," Ms. Rodriguez Lopez said. Authorities have
deported nearly 800,000 immigrants in the past two years.

The much-disputed 2010 health care bill contained many measures that benefit
Hispanics, the progress report found, including expansion of the Medicaid
program, the creation of affordable insurance exchanges, $11 billion for
community health clinics and $15 billion for preventive care.

The report also found that Hispanics had been helped by Mr. Obama's stimulus
package and by Justice Department efforts to prosecute hate crimes against them.

But Ms. Rodriguez Lopez warned that many programs recorded as advances in the
report appeared vulnerable in the upcoming deficit reduction talks. "We feel the
Latino community can be significantly hurt, but particularly in the health
safety net," she said.

Hispanic leaders praised the House of Representatives, when it was controlled by
the Democrats, for passing a bill last year, known as the Dream Act, which would
grant legal status to illegal immigrant high school graduates seeking to attend
college. With opposition from Republicans, the bill failed in the Senate.

The leaders said they expected the Dream Act and other immigration issues to be
a litmus test for Latino voters judging candidates in the presidential race.
Latinos could cast crucial votes in states like Colorado, Nevada and Florida.

Immigration "is an American problem," said Carmen Segarra, national policy
chairwoman of the Hispanic National Bar Association. "This is not a Republican
problem or a Democratic problem."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              179 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            August 11, 2011 Thursday

A Russian Matriarch Gets Her Moment Onstage

BYLINE: ADRIANE QUINLAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 768 words



HIGHLIGHT: An immigrant from a persecuted Jewish family in Moscow, Eva Levitis,
56, is featured in the new reality television show "Russian Dolls," set in
Brighton Beach.


On the first episode of "Russian Dolls,"Eva Levitis sits at the head of a table,
prepping her pancake makeup for a beauty pageant. The pageant, for grandmothers
only, is one she'll handily win - no one else tries for a belly dance routine
that includes an eggplant-colored brassiere, dripping with beads. But that
hasn't happened yet. She's still at home, her hair a nest of blond curls,
speaking longingly into a make-up mirror: "I always dreamed to be onstage. And
people was looking at me."

Her English is stilted, charming. Don't blame her.

An immigrant from a persecuted Jewish family in Moscow, a computer programmer in
America and now a grandmother - Ms. Levitis, only 56, has waited long enough to
swan onstage, to be seen. "Russian Dolls," which will have its premiere Thursday
night on Lifetime, follows families in Brooklyn's Brighton Beach through their
catfights, spa days and dating disasters in what producers bill as a docu-drama
slice of the immigrant experience and critics dub a Russian "Jersey Shore."

Though the pilot can feel kooky and staged, with conversations as forced as the
worst of "reality," Ms. Levitis's open avowal of her love of performance and
emotional cracks feel honest. Though she wins the pageant's "Best Talent" award,
her family isn't there to see it - they leave early, bored. That hurts. "I was
very embarrassed that they left early," she says, cow-eyed, at the camera.
"Actually, that broke my heart."

Moon-faced and Snooki-ly petite, Ms. Levitis is the matriarch of the clan known
in Brighton for owning the nightclub Rasputin, where you can suck on lobster
while witnessing a Las Vegas-style Russophone cabaret show. In political
circles, she's known as the mother of Michael Levitis, a Brighton Beach lawyer
who pleaded guilty to lying to investigators in the bribery scandal that
ensnared his friend State Senator Carl Kruger.

Ms. Levitis does her son's bookkeeping, but to speak of his criminal case, she
said, was "too difficult." The threat of Mr. Levitis's imprisonment reminded her
of her father's seven-year term in a Siberian work camp.

Last Saturday, off camera, Ms. Levitis sat in the moody dark of her own
restaurant, in a cocktail dress of magenta silk and bronze platform heels, with
a little golden purse. She spoke of family.

"Different generations can't understand each other," she said. "When you get
older you can understand. I just now understand my mother and father."

Ms. Levitis's father was the head chef of a French restaurant in Moscow; his
parents had been imprisoned by Stalin.

Her childhood was strict, traditional. At 5 years old, she was nearly kidnapped.
"After this the gates were closed," she recalled. She wasn't allowed to date. A
matchmaker set her up with her husband.

When she was a young woman, her father was accused of donating resources to a
Jewish school and was imprisoned in Siberia. After his release, the family
immigrated to America, where they lived, at first, on welfare. Ms. Levitis's
husband, a dentist, studied for his license. She took classes in computer
programming and climbed up corporate ladders.

In 1999, her husband left her for his secretary. "He left me for a younger
woman," Ms. Levitis recalled. "I thought 'Oh, I'm not good enough.'" She got
through it by taking belly dancing classes - "the dance of single women," she
calls it, letting the feeling pulse through her quickly -- a quick shimmy of the
shoulders, a toss of the head.

Later episodes of the show portray Ms. Levitis on dates with eligible bachelors,
one of whom is 35. "I'm looking for the sexual relationship," Ms. Levitis tells
her daughter-in-law.

For Ms. Levitis, dating on camera was an attempt to take the shock value out of
what she was doing.

"I want to show my generation of women, divorce is not the end of life," she
said. "There is a life. You can dance, sing, date. You have to live your life
again."

Performing is her therapy. As a programmer at a financial firm, she would count
the days until the office party broke out the karaoke machine. "I always sang
'America the Beautiful,'" she said. "You can't sing anything, you know,
romantic, because it's an office. And I love America."

At Rasputin last weekend, Ms. Levitis danced alone on the crowded floor. The
band played "We No Speak Americano" and she hopped up and down. Then they played
"Let the Sunshine In." Ms. Levitis closed her eyes and sang along.


     ·    How Do You Say 'Jersey Shore' in Russian?
     ·    Smiles Are Rare, but the Food Is Abundant
     ·    19-Year-Old Is Arrested in Boardwalk Shooting
     ·    Five People Shot on Boardwalk in Brighton Beach
     ·    A Russian-Language Daily Hits the Streets


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              180 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                           September 6, 2011 Tuesday

Beyond Refugee Camps, a Better Way

BYLINE: TINA ROSENBERG

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1283 words



HIGHLIGHT: Putting millions of fleeing people in refugee camps amounts to
victimizing them twice.


In Friday's Fixes column, I wrote about alternatives to keeping refugees in
camps for years. The hundreds of thousands of Somalis streaming today into the
camps in Dadaab, Kenya, are getting lifesaving food, medical care and shelter.
Camps like  Dadaab are designed for emergency care and do it well - but most
refugee situations are long-term.   Camps condemn refugees to years, maybe
decades, of dependency.  There are people in Dadaab who have not stepped outside
the camp since it opened in 1991.

There are millions of refugees, however, who never go to camps.  Instead, they
settle in cities or in the countryside. Some soldier through on their own.  But
in many cases, the United Nations refugee agency, U.N.H.C.R., helps.  Life
outside a camp gives refugees the chance to live a dignified exile, and to
acquire cash and skills that can benefit them and their country once they go
home again.

In 1951, an international convention set forth the rights of refugees: these
include the right to move freely and to work.   Camps, however, hold refugees
against their will and do not allow them to work in the local economy.  Camps
are not only routinely violating refugees' rights, the whole camp system is
based on their violation.

Lavinia Limon, the president of the United States Committee for Refugees and
Immigrants, compares the arguments for encampment to the debate about ending
slavery.  "What were the arguments against freeing the slaves in America?   They
won't be able to find a job.  They are better off where they are.  It will
destroy the southern economy if we let them loose," she said.  "And all that
stuff happened.  It really did.  There's going to be some dislocation.  There is
a price.  But how many people think that freeing the slaves was a bad decision?"

The Committee for Refugees and Immigrants denounces the "warehousing" of
refugees and promotes alternatives.  Limon is right that putting millions of
fleeing people in camps is victimizing them twice.  She is correct that the
alternatives carry a price, but a price worth paying.

The problem with this argument is that this price isn't paid by America.  It's
paid by Kenya, Pakistan and other countries that take in refugees.   Refugees
flee to nearby countries, many of which are barely better off than their
neighbors.  Indeed, often there is no distinction: there are currently Ethiopian
refugees in Sudan and Sudanese refugees in Ethiopia.  Or there is a difference
of perhaps a decade -  Ivory Coast hosted refugees from Liberia during that
country's civil war, and now Liberia is returning the favor.  The United Nations
news agency IRIN reports that in the Liberian village of Janzon Axis, on the
Ivorian border, the village chief is sheltering on his property the very same
Ivorian family that gave him shelter for 14 years.

Including those in Dadaab and other camps, there are well over half a million
Somali refugees in Kenya. As a percentage of the population, that would be the
equivalent in the United States of 37.5 million people.  The United States
enjoys economic advantages that Kenya does not.  But does anyone think that the
U.S. would take in 37.5 million Somali refugees?

This is why refugees are essentially imprisoned and kept dependent on
international largesse.  Host nations have several reasons for walling off
refugees, but there are two that are most important.  One is their fear that if
refugees are allowed to make lives for themselves, they will not go home again.
Legally, they must go home once it is safe, unless their country of asylum lets
them stay.   But we all know how well that works.

It seems intuitive that letting refugees settle where they wish is an invitation
to stay.  Camps, on the other hand, seem to make it easy.   Everyone is in one
place, and everyone is dependent - just lock it down.  "It's a lot easier to
deal with people when you just take their rights away," said Limon.

But it may not be true that refugees in camps are more likely to leave.  Jeff
Crisp, who is the head of evaluation and policy at U.N.H.C.R., thinks that
whether people are in a camp or self-settled probably does not affect whether
they go home.  Most people want to go home, but they don't want to go with
nothing - they want to come home with cash, skills and confidence. And
self-settled refugees are often able to maintain closer ties with home.   Those
Ivorians in Liberia, for example, often cross back and forth - they slip into
Ivory Coast to farm their lands during the day, and back to Liberia to sleep at
night.  These are people who are going home again. Certainly they will go back
better-prepared to contribute to the rebuilding of their country than those who
return from camps.

Host governments also require camps because they do not want the economic and
political costs of absorbing refugees.  One reader, Melanie from Oslo (2),
writes: "Kenya's infrastructure, local institutions and social services are
inadequate and already strained to a point that many of the country's deeply
impoverished citizens are not able to find gainful employment, send their
children to school or obtain medical care."   She is correct - which makes it
all the more laudable that Kenya, while it has a formal policy of encampment,
also hosts thousands of refugees outside camps - some 80,000 in Nairobi.

Study after study has shown that immigrants actually contribute far more money
and jobs to their new country than they take - even illegal immigrants.  The
sudden absorption of tens of thousands of people, however, especially when those
people have little education or usable skills, is bound to be a burden.  But
even they can be productive.  S.O. from Chicago (8) wrote that from his
experience as a refugee resettlement worker, poor Somalis often do better than
Iraqis in America - they take the first job they can, work hard and form tight
communities.  Some middle-class Iraqis, he wrote, turn down jobs, handicapped by
expectations that are too high.  "Just imagine how much talent is lost
languishing in today's large camps," writes Lynn from New York (7).

International help for refugees outside camps is often aimed at both helping
them and reducing the strains they can place on the communities where they
settle.  For example, UNHCR will expand or help to stock a health clinic in a
neighborhood with a large refugee population.  This is crucial - it reduces
political opposition to refugees, helps to right some of the unfair burden they
place on poor countries and creates something lasting.   But the scope of these
projects falls far, far, short of what is fair and what is needed.  One of the
arguments donors like for settling refugees outside camps is that it's cheaper.
Well, it shouldn't be.   If it is, neighboring countries are being asked to do
too much.

Providing aid to refugees and the communities that host them resembles
development work more than it resembles the traditional tasks of feeding and
sheltering people in camp.  It is not the kind of work the global refugee system
is comfortable with.  For example, in Janzon Axis, services for refugees - food
aid, an expanded health clinic, a new children's playground - also go to the
villagers.   Yet UNHCR is building camps for the Janzon Axis refugees, arguing
that the only road to the village is impassable during the rainy season, which
means aid cannot get through.  No surprise; building camps has been our answer
for more than 50 years. But a better solution would be to instead take some of
that money, and hire the villagers and their guests to build a road.





     ·    For Refugees, the Price of Dignity
     ·    On Libya, Suspicious Minds
     ·    Qaddafi's Bombast, Iran's Bombs
     ·    Obama's Non-Doctrine Doctrine
     ·    Tripoli, the Morning After


LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              181 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday

Republican Presidential Field Courts Sheriff Joe

BYLINE: MARC LACEY and SALVADOR RODRIGUEZ

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 391 words



HIGHLIGHT: Michelle Bachmann is the most recent candidate to court Sheriff Joe
Arpaio, stopping at his office in downtown Phoenix on Wednesday.


It is presidential campaign season in Arizona and that means the phone of
Sheriff Joe Arpaio is ringing off the hook.

Mr. Arpaio, who conducts raids of immigrant neighborhoods and keeps his suspects
in open-air tents, may be a symbol of intolerance to his critics but he remains
so influential in conservative circles that his endorsement is considered a
prize.

That is why Texas Gov. Rick Perry called him up last week to chit chat. And why
former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney did the same ahead of an Arizona trip this
week. Then there was Michele Bachmann, who stopped by Mr. Arpaio's office in
downtown Phoenix on Wednesday afternoon to heap praise on the man.

"It is very important to be here in Arizona to talk about the issue of
immigration, and of course, Sheriff Joe is the nation's sheriff," Ms. Bachmann
said during a brief photo op. "He is one of my heroes, but he is also a hero all
across the nation. I look forward to being with him today. We're going to be
talking a little bit more about the problems on our southern border."

Mr. Arpaio keeps those who are interested about the jockeying for his
endorsement up to date on his Twitter account. Although he supported Mr. Romney
in the last Republican presidential primary, Mr. Arpaio has yet to endorse
anybody this time around.

His influence, although weighty in Arizona, clearly has its limits in actually
propelling candidates to the White House. He supported Bob Dole just before he
was defeated by Bill Clinton in 1996. Four years later, he endorsed George W.
Bush, who went on to become president.  In the lead up to the 2008 election, Mr.
Arpaio backed Mr. Romney over Sen. John McCain, who was the eventual Republican
nominee and with whom Mr. Arpaio appears to have a grudge.

On Wednesday, Mr. Romney, who spoke in Sun Lakes, a retirement community south
of Phoenix at the very moment that Mrs. Bachmann was having her photograph
taking with the sheriff, surely wished he had Mr. Arpaio at his side. But with
Mr. Arpaio still uncommitted, Mr. Romney had to make do with the next best thing
-- another tough-talking Arizona sheriff, Paul Babeu of Pinal County.


     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    Hispanic Congressman Is Arrested in Deportation Protest
     ·    A Second Try on Immigration Act
     ·    Obama Calls Immigration Reform a 'Moral Imperative'
     ·    Senate Democrats Reintroduce Dream Act


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              182 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           September 19, 2011 Monday

Rick Perry Takes Upper Manhattan

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 433 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Texas governor spoke to a group of small business owners in
Inwood, where he touted his moderate approach to immigration and opposition to
government regulations.


Just as President Obama was landing at New York's John F. Kennedy Airport,
preparing to take a chopper to lower Manhattan before driving up the East Side
to the United Nations, Gov. Rick Perry was wrapping up his own event at the
opposite tip of the borough.

After spending last week in Iowa, perhaps the potted cacti in front of Papasito
Mexican Grill and Agave Bar reminded the Texas governor of home. Then again,
menu items like the "broiled Miso and papaya glazed Chilean seabass filet" stood
in contrast to his true grit image.

So it was more likely the chance to schmooze with a collection of about 50
predominantly Hispanic small-business owners that drew Mr. Perry to Inwood - a
neighborhood known for its heavy Dominican population - on Monday afternoon.

"We're humbled to have him here listening to the needs of small businesses,"
said Fernando Mateo, the head of the New York State Federation of Taxi Drivers.
A longtime Republican fund-raiser, Mr. Mateo said Mr. Perry's campaign contacted
him to set up the hourlong event.

Voters in New York are not likely to help Mr. Perry win the nomination (much
less the White House, if he gets that far), especially given his hardline
conservative positions. However, Mr. Perry takes many positions that set him
apart from the G.O.P. field on the . He opposes building a border fence and
enacting Arizona-style enforcement laws, and he backed measures that would offer
a path to citizenship or legal residency for students and soldiers. His stance
could give him greater access to campaign cash from conservative Hispanics
around the country.

Mr. Perry is "someone that understands that children are not responsible for the
actions of their parents, said Mr. Mateo. "Out of all the Republican candidates,
he stands alone as far as we're concerned."

The Inwood event raised about $50,000, according to Mr. Mateo, just a "drop in
the bucket" for a politician who - as the governor noted himself in a debate
last week - can raise $30 million.

At least one person appeared at the event who is not likely to donate to Mr.
Perry's campaign.

"Charlie Rangel did show up," Mr. Mateo said of the Democrat who represents the
area in the House. "He's a statesman in New York, and we were always taught by
our parents to respect the elder."

Mr. Mateo said that Mr. Rangel did not stay for Mr. Perry's speech, but that he
did welcome the Texan to the district.


     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    Hispanic Congressman Is Arrested in Deportation Protest
     ·    Reid Promises Immigration Vote After Election
     ·    The Latino Vote, California and Immigration
     ·    A Call to End Hate Speech


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              183 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

'I'm Proud to Be a Citizen': 18 Are Sworn In

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 804 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Lower East Side Tenement Museum, which celebrates a neighborhood
that was a magnet for immigrants, welcomes the country's newest citizens.


Festus Cohill has earned many titles during his time in the United States:
Vietnam War veteran. Cancer survivor. Bartender extraordinaire. Fiance, twice,
though never husband.

On Tuesday, nearly 47 years after emigrating from Ireland, Mr. Cohill, 64,
acquired the one distinction he had never gotten around to: United States
citizen.

"It's been everything I dreamed of," Mr. Cohill said, clutching a small American
flag in his left hand. "I should have done this years ago."

Mr. Cohill was among 18 immigrants naturalized Tuesday in a ceremony at the
Lower East Side Tenement Museum. The honorees came from 16 countries, including
Japan, New Zealand, Bulgaria and Cameroon. Many of the countries with the
highest concentration of naturalized citizens in the city - like China, India
and the Dominican Republic - were also represented.

Judge Robert Allen Katzmann, the son of a refugee from Nazi Germany and a
grandson of Russian immigrants, officiated at the ceremony, held behind the
glass walls of the museum's new visitor and education center on Orchard Street.

"This country, our country, your country, is stronger and better than it was
even a few minutes ago," Judge Katzmann, of the Federal Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit in New York, told members of the group after they recited the
Oath of Allegiance. "We celebrate you in this very special moment."

After raising their right hands for the oath, the new citizens were shown a
video message of congratulations from President Obama. Next, images of the
country's bustling cities and majestic plains flashed across the screen, set to
the song "God Bless the U.S.A.," by Lee Greenwood.

(Representatives from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
encouraged attendees to wave their miniature flags, handed out before the
ceremony, to the sound of the music. In their first act of civil disobedience,
most kept the flags at their sides.)

The New York City area, including Long Island and a few neighboring counties,
accounts for more naturalizations each year than any other district in the
country, the agency said. From October 2009 to September 2010, 72,000 immigrants
in the area were naturalized, according to the agency. Many of the participants
at Tuesday's ceremony have lived in the city for years.

"When you're a citizen of the United States, you have a freedom to travel, to
work, to help your family and yourself," said Jacques Pendie, 58, who emigrated
from Cameroon seven years ago. After working in construction when he first
arrived, Mr. Pendie said, he now supports his family in the Bronx with his job
as a nursing assistant at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. "I'm proud to
be a citizen," he said, adjusting his beige suit before the ceremony. "I look
forward to helping my family."

Morris Vogel, the president of the Tenement Museum, said he had not attended a
naturalization ceremony since his own, more than 50 years ago. Born in what is
now Kazakhstan, Mr. Vogel said Tuesday's event mirrored the museum's mission: a
nod to the past, firmly ensconced in the present.

Many of the museum's facilities were former tenements. Today, the block stands
as a reminder of immigrant generations through its history. The neighborhood was
once known as the "bargain district," said David Favaloro, the museum's director
of curatorial affairs, a place to buy cheap garments and supplies. Gone are the
German-run saloons of the 19th century and the Jewish handkerchief dealers of
the post-Depression era, but new communities have filled the void.

On Allen Street, a newspaper cutout of the Statue of Liberty hangs in the front
window of a Cantonese restaurant. Around the corner, the Dominican proprietors
of a dry-cleaning business have placed two stickers on their swinging door: the
flag of their native country and the logo of the Mets.

Liang Pan, 19, who is from China, became a citizen on Tuesday alongside his
brother Mei, 22. The two share a home in Harlem with their mother, who works at
a clothing factory in Midtown, and a younger brother. Liang Pan, a student at
the City College of New York, said citizenship came with responsibility. He
hopes to become a police officer, he said, serving the city he has long called
his own.

"I'm waiting to do anything for the country," he said, shifting in his blue
jeans and Air Jordan sneakers. "It's just cool."


     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser
     ·    Bloomberg Advises Trump to Drop 'Birther' Issue
     ·    Mayor Awards Prizes in Next Idea Competition
     ·    4-Year-Old Citizen Who Was Deported Comes Back
     ·    Feisty Barbadian, Reluctant Centenarian, Dies at 102


http://graphics8.nytimes.com/images/2011/09/21/nyregion/20tenement/20tenement-bl
og480.jpg Nicole Fernandez, left, and Festus Cohill after being sworn in as
citizens on Tuesday at the Tenement Museum in Manhattan.Fred R. Conrad/The New
York Times

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              184 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           September 20, 2011 Tuesday

'I'm Proud to Be a Citizen': 18 Are Sworn In

BYLINE: MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 763 words



HIGHLIGHT: The Lower East Side Tenement Museum, which celebrates a neighborhood
that was a magnet for immigrants, welcomes the country's newest citizens.


Festus Cohill has earned many titles during his time in the United States:
Vietnam War veteran. Cancer survivor. Bartender extraordinaire. Fiance, twice,
though never husband.

On Tuesday, nearly 47 years after emigrating from Ireland, Mr. Cohill, 64,
acquired the one distinction he had never gotten around to: United States
citizen.

"It's been everything I dreamed of," Mr. Cohill said, clutching a small American
flag in his left hand. "I should have done this years ago."

Mr. Cohill was among 18 immigrants naturalized Tuesday in a ceremony at the
Lower East Side Tenement Museum. The honorees came from 16 countries, including
Japan, New Zealand, Bulgaria and Cameroon. Many of the countries with the
highest concentration of naturalized citizens in the city - like China, India
and the Dominican Republic - were also represented.

Judge Robert Allen Katzmann, the son of a refugee from Nazi Germany and a
grandson of Russian immigrants, officiated at the ceremony, held behind the
glass walls of the museum's new visitor and education center on Orchard Street.

"This country, our country, your country, is stronger and better than it was
even a few minutes ago," Judge Katzmann, of the Federal Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit in New York, told members of the group after they recited the
Oath of Allegiance. "We celebrate you in this very special moment."

After raising their right hands for the oath, the new citizens were shown a
video message of congratulations from President Obama. Next, images of the
country's bustling cities and majestic plains flashed across the screen, set to
the song "God Bless the U.S.A.," by Lee Greenwood.

(Representatives from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services
encouraged attendees to wave their miniature flags, handed out before the
ceremony, to the sound of the music. In their first act of civil disobedience,
most kept the flags at their sides.)

The New York City area, including Long Island and a few neighboring counties,
accounts for more naturalizations each year than any other district in the
country, the agency said. From October 2009 to September 2010, 72,000 immigrants
in the area were naturalized, according to the agency. Many of the participants
at Tuesday's ceremony have lived in the city for years.

"When you're a citizen of the United States, you have a freedom to travel, to
work, to help your family and yourself," said Jacques Pendie, 58, who emigrated
from Cameroon seven years ago. After working in construction when he first
arrived, Mr. Pendie said, he now supports his family in the Bronx with his job
as a nursing assistant at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. "I'm proud to
be a citizen," he said, adjusting his beige suit before the ceremony. "I look
forward to helping my family."

Morris Vogel, the president of the Tenement Museum, said he had not attended a
naturalization ceremony since his own, more than 50 years ago. Born in what is
now Kazakhstan, Mr. Vogel said Tuesday's event mirrored the museum's mission: a
nod to the past, firmly ensconced in the present.

Many of the museum's facilities were former tenements. Today, the block stands
as a reminder of immigrant generations through its history. The neighborhood was
once known as the "bargain district," said David Favaloro, the museum's director
of curatorial affairs, a place to buy cheap garments and supplies. Gone are the
German-run saloons of the 19th century and the Jewish handkerchief dealers of
the post-Depression era, but new communities have filled the void.

On Allen Street, a newspaper cutout of the Statue of Liberty hangs in the front
window of a Cantonese restaurant. Around the corner, the Dominican proprietors
of a dry-cleaning business have placed two stickers on their swinging door: the
flag of their native country and the logo of the Mets.

Liang Pan, 19, who is from China, became a citizen on Tuesday alongside his
brother Mei, 22. The two share a home in Harlem with their mother, who works at
a clothing factory in Midtown, and a younger brother. Liang Pan, a student at
the City College of New York, said citizenship came with responsibility. He
hopes to become a police officer, he said, serving the city he has long called
his own.

"I'm waiting to do anything for the country," he said, shifting in his blue
jeans and Air Jordan sneakers. "It's just cool."


     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser
     ·    Bloomberg Advises Trump to Drop 'Birther' Issue
     ·    Mayor Awards Prizes in Next Idea Competition
     ·    4-Year-Old Citizen Who Was Deported Comes Back
     ·    Feisty Barbadian, Reluctant Centenarian, Dies at 102


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              185 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                          September 21, 2011 Wednesday

A Shifting Electorate: The Vanishing Rural Voter

BYLINE: ALLISON KOPICKI

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 699 words



HIGHLIGHT: As the number of rural voters dwindle, so does their influence --
which could have broad implications for Republicans in the 2012 campaign.


Voters who live in rural areas are often at odds with their suburban and urban
counterparts when it comes to national politics. And as the number of rural
voters dwindle, so does their influence -- which could have broad implications
for how the Republican primaries and the general election play out in 2012.

Over the last 10 years, census findings show a continuing population decline in
rural communities, particularly in the Midwest and Northeast, and migration to
metropolitan areas, mostly in the South and West. A report by the Population
Reference Bureau, a nonpartisan research organization in Washington, notes that
by 2010, 51 percent of Americans lived in the suburbs, 33 percent lived in
central cities, and just 16 percent lived in rural America, down from 20 percent
in 2000.

A recent New York Times/CBS News poll found attitudinal divides between voters
from urban and suburban areas and those from rural areas. While Americans from
all three types of communities are deeply concerned about the economy and jobs,
they differ sharply over things like the role of the federal government, global
warming, immigration and same-sex marriage.

Voters from rural areas were most likely to take conservative positions while
their counterparts held more moderate views. For example, 44 percent of urban
voters and 37 percent of suburban voters said illegal immigrants should be able
to eventually apply for citizenship, while a plurality of rural voters took a
different point of view, with 48 percent saying illegal immigrants should be
deported. Forty-one percent of rural residents said they considered themselves
conservative, compared with  34 percent of suburban and 33 percent of urban
residents.

Three of the president's proposals for creating jobs in the American Jobs Act
held almost nearly equal appeal across the three regional groups: cutting taxes
for small businesses, spending money on the nation's infrastructure and
significantly cutting payroll taxes. One proposal saw more division: Half of
urban and suburban Americans said that providing money to states to avoid
layoffs of public employees was a good idea, compared to 4 in 10 rural
Americans.

People living in metropolitan areas "are more dependent on public services on a
daily basis - getting to work, public safety issues, infrastructure, roads and
hospitals," said Mark Mather, a demographer and associate vice president of
domestic programs at the Population Reference Bureau. Candidates who are
campaigning on issues of smaller government and less spending on public services
may not have as receptive an audience in suburban and urban areas, compared with
rural places, where government can be less visible.

This may also explain why the Tea Party, with its antigovernment-spending
message, holds less appeal for urbanites and suburbanites, of whom just 18
percent and 21 percent, respectively, find the movement favorable,   compared
with 26 percent of rural respondents.

Suburban voters accounted for 49 percent of the electorate in 2008 and 2010,
according to exit polls. About 30 percent of voters were from urban areas, and
just 14 percent came from rural communities.  For President Obama and the field
of Republican candidates looking to win over the hearts of the suburban voters -
a typically sought-after swing group - the suburbs have become a different
place: younger, more ethnically diverse, and perhaps most important, quite a bit
poorer.

Mr. Obama narrowly captured the suburbs in 2008, 50 percent to Senator John
McCain's 48 percent. Since the end of 2009, however, the president's standing
among suburbanites has declined, with just 35 percent approving of his handling
of the job in the recent New York Times/CBS News poll.

Census data reveals that the recession has brought about a sharp increase in
poverty in suburban areas, which traditionally have the lowest poverty rates.
Nearly 12 percent of suburban dwellers were living in poverty in 2010, up from 8
percent in 2001. Mr. Mather pointed to the growing midsized metro areas in
Nevada and the interior of California and Florida, which were all booming just a
few years ago and are now seeing stagnant growth and even migration out of
state.

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              186 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

In the Moments Before Deportation, Holding On to Hope

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 490 words



HIGHLIGHT: At the Habib house in Woodside, Queens, friends and family gathered
hours before the government was scheduled to order the mother, Nazmin, and
daughter, Nadia, to return to Bangladesh, even as the father and three children
were allowed to stay.


With shoes piled at the entranceway, the Habib house in Woodside, Queens,
appeared to be having a celebration Wednesday night - teenagers drew on bright
paper on the living room floor; women in headscarves and flowing salwar kameez
dresses passed out cupcakes after a hearty meal of chicken biryani; kids bounced
on leather couches and swung miniature American flags.

Nadia Habib, a 19-year-old with a shining nose stud representing both her
Bengali culture and youthful style, munched on a Burger King fish sandwich. Her
brother Naiem Habib, 17, made a joke about a smudged poster reading "We are all
immigrants."

"It's not like people are going to focus on the sign and say, 'oh that looks
kind of bad, we're going to deport her!' " Naiem said.

Nadia laughed. But to the 40 friends and family members at the Habibs - and to
6,000 other people around the country who have signed a petition on their behalf
- the deportation to Bangladesh of Nadia Habib and her mother, Nazmin Habib,
scheduled for 11:30 a.m. Thursday, seems almost as arbitrary as a smudged sign.

The family immigrated to the United States in 1993. The father, Jawad Habib, a
taxi driver, has his green card. Nadia's three younger siblings were born here
and are citizens. But Nadia -- who left Bangladesh when she was 20 months old
-- and her mother overstayed a tourist visa and are not legal residents.

Ever since an order was issued in 2000 for mother and daughter's removal, the
family says they have been trying to appeal and seek political asylum. Their
case has never been reopened, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement never
enforced the ruling - until last month.

The Habibs' lawyer, Aygul Charles, noted that new government policies focus on
deporting immigrants with criminal records first (the Habibs have none). Ms.
Charles filed a request Monday to block the deportation but says she has not
gotten a reply.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Luis Martinez, would not
comment directly on the case, but he said ICE focused its efforts on convicted
criminals, who represented over half of last year's deportations.

So the Habibs haven't given up hope.

Though asked to arrive at Federal Plaza ready for departure on Thursday, Nadia
Habib and her mother brought no suitcases for their deportation date, when they
arrived at 10 a.m. Outside the building, protesters rallied to urge the
government to let them stay.

Wednesday night on the terrace of the Habibs' brick apartment house, Jawad Habib
watched rain drip off white roses. "My daughter's my heart," he said. "How could
I live without her?"

Inside, as Nadia and her friends made signs, she fielded an endless string of
calls from friends, family members and reporters. "Are you coming to the rally?"
she'd ask. Every night, she said: "I've broken down and cried. But you have to
keep yourself together."


     ·    Women Spared Deportation to Bangladesh, for Now
     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              187 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday

In the Moments Before Deportation, Holding On to Hope

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 490 words



HIGHLIGHT: At the Habib house in Woodside, Queens, friends and family gathered
hours before the government was scheduled to order the mother, Nazmin, and
daughter, Nadia, to return to Bangladesh, even as the father and three children
were allowed to stay.


With shoes piled at the entranceway, the Habib house in Woodside, Queens,
appeared to be having a celebration Wednesday night - teenagers drew on bright
paper on the living room floor; women in headscarves and flowing salwar kameez
dresses passed out cupcakes after a hearty meal of chicken biryani; kids bounced
on leather couches and swung miniature American flags.

Nadia Habib, a 19-year-old with a shining nose stud representing both her
Bengali culture and youthful style, munched on a Burger King fish sandwich. Her
brother Naiem Habib, 17, made a joke about a smudged poster reading "We are all
immigrants."

"It's not like people are going to focus on the sign and say, 'oh that looks
kind of bad, we're going to deport her!' " Naiem said.

Nadia laughed. But to the 40 friends and family members at the Habibs - and to
6,000 other people around the country who have signed a petition on their behalf
- the deportation to Bangladesh of Nadia Habib and her mother, Nazmin Habib,
scheduled for 11:30 a.m. Thursday, seems almost as arbitrary as a smudged sign.

The family immigrated to the United States in 1993. The father, Jawad Habib, a
taxi driver, has his green card. Nadia's three younger siblings were born here
and are citizens. But Nadia -- who left Bangladesh when she was 20 months old
-- and her mother overstayed a tourist visa and are not legal residents.

Ever since an order was issued in 2000 for mother and daughter's removal, the
family says they have been trying to appeal and seek political asylum. Their
case has never been reopened, but Immigration and Customs Enforcement never
enforced the ruling - until last month.

The Habibs' lawyer, Aygul Charles, noted that new government policies focus on
deporting immigrants with criminal records first (the Habibs have none). Ms.
Charles filed a request Monday to block the deportation but says she has not
gotten a reply.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Luis Martinez, would not
comment directly on the case, but he said ICE focused its efforts on convicted
criminals, who represented over half of last year's deportations.

So the Habibs haven't given up hope.

Though asked to arrive at Federal Plaza ready for departure on Thursday, Nadia
Habib and her mother brought no suitcases for their deportation date, when they
arrived at 10 a.m. Outside the building, protesters rallied to urge the
government to let them stay.

Wednesday night on the terrace of the Habibs' brick apartment house, Jawad Habib
watched rain drip off white roses. "My daughter's my heart," he said. "How could
I live without her?"

Inside, as Nadia and her friends made signs, she fielded an endless string of
calls from friends, family members and reporters. "Are you coming to the rally?"
she'd ask. Every night, she said: "I've broken down and cried. But you have to
keep yourself together."


     ·    Women Spared Deportation to Bangladesh, for Now
     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              188 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday

Perry Open to Military Intervention in Mexico's Drug War

BYLINE: RICH OPPEL

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 605 words



HIGHLIGHT: In a move intended to show that he was tough on immigration, Gov.
Rick Perry said that with approval of the Mexican government,  he would consider
sending troops into Mexico to help defeat drug cartels and improve border
security.


MANCHESTER, N.H. - Gov. Rick Perry of Texas said on Saturday that as president,
he would consider sending American troops into Mexico to help defeat drug
cartels and improve border security. He indicated that any such action would be
done "in concert" with the Mexican government.

"It may require our military in Mexico working in concert with them to kill
these drug cartels and to keep them off of our border and to destroy their
network," Mr. Perry said during a campaign appearance here.

"I don't know all the different scenarios that would be out there," he said.
"But I think  it is very important for us to work with them to keep that country
from failing."

Sending soldiers into Mexico - even with the approval of the Mexican government
- would represent a far more aggressive policy than the one employed by
Washington in recent years, despite the stepped-up surveillance and logistical
aid that has been provided  to Mexican authorities.

The idea would also almost certainly be a non-starter with Mexican authorities.
Mexico lost half of its territory to the United States in the 1850s, and ever
since it has been very sensitive to the idea of any involvement by American
troops in its territory.

Mr. Perry's comments seemed to be his latest effort to show that he is tough on
border security and illegal immigration after being painted by rivals for the
Republican presidential nomination as being soft on the subject.

His stance on that issue appears to have cost him in some polls, especially
after his statement during the last debate that those who disagree with his
immigration position were heartless. He later backpedaled and said that the
description was inappropriate.

Mr. Perry made the comments about potentially sending troops into Mexico while
describing his hopes for increased cooperation with the Mexican government, and
he said that if he were elected president, he would work hard to "create a very
trusting relationship" with his counterpart in Mexico.

His comments also suggested that he may pursue a far more interventionist
military and foreign policy in Mexico, one that is much more expansive that even
the widened approach that the Obama administration has sought.

The United States has already been sending drones deep inside Mexico to gather
intelligence about drug trafficking. And the Obama administration has also let
Mexican authorities mount cross-border operations against drug traffickers from
inside the United States. But Mexican President Felipe Calderon kept those
operations secret in order to avoid legal and political protests from his
opponents.

Deputy Secretary of State William J. Burns recently said that the scope of the
American cooperation with Mexico would be strictly limited and defined.

"There are clear limits to our role," Mr. Burns said. "Our role is not to
conduct operations. It is not to engage in law enforcement activities. That is
the role of the Mexican authorities. And that's the way it should be."

A Perry campaign spokesman, Robert Black, emphasized that what Mr. Perry was
talking about was a cooperative arrangement with Mexican officials and that he
wanted to "look at all options to work with the Mexican government."

Asked whether Mr. Perry would ever consider sending American troops into Mexico
without that government's consent, Mr. Black said: "That's way big
hypotheticals. He's going to work with the Mexican government to do what is
necessary."


     ·    No Surprise Here, Romney Wins Michigan Straw Poll
     ·    For Romney and Perry, a Day on the Island
     ·    Rick Perry Takes Upper Manhattan
     ·    Perry Wrestles With His Political History
     ·    On the Trail in New Hampshire, Perry Focuses on Jobs


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              189 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                            October 4, 2011 Tuesday

Immigrants Play Key Role as City Entrepreneurs, Study Finds

BYLINE: PATRICK WALL

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1006 words



HIGHLIGHT: While immigrants constitute just over a third of the city's
population, they own about 48 percent of the city's small businesses, according
to a study published by the Fiscal Policy Institute.


Any taxi-riding, bodega-shopping, laundromat-using New Yorker knows that
immigrants own many of the businesses that make New York tick.  Now a new study
shows that while immigrants constitute just over a third of the city's
population, they make up nearly half of the city's small-business owners.

The study, published Monday by the Fiscal Policy Institute and based on census
data, found that more than 69,000 New York City business owners - about 48
percent of the total - are foreign born.  These immigrant entrepreneurs hail
from around the world and run companies in every sector of the economy.  But in
certain lines of business, including dry cleaning, taxi services and grocery
stores, the study shows that immigrant owners dominate.

"When you think of New York neighborhoods, you think about the stores and
restaurants and groceries," said David Dyssegaard Kallick, a senior fellow at
the institute - a union-supported, nonpartisan research and advocacy group.
"Those are the kinds of small businesses where immigrants are playing a
particularly strong role."

(pdf) is based on a five-year sample of data from the 2005-9 American Community
Survey.  It defines small business owners as self-employed people with
incorporated businesses, which excludes corporations and nonprofits.

The country whose natives make up the largest share of immigrant business owners
is China, with about 9 percent of the total, followed by the Dominican Republic,
Korea, India, Italy, Greece, Colombia, countries of the former Soviet Union,
Israel and the Palestinian territories and Jamaica.  Another 55 percent of
foreign-born owners come from other countries.

Immigrant business owners represent a majority in several industry sectors,
including transportation and warehousing, retail trade, construction, wholesale
trade and manufacturing.  Within those broad sectors, foreign-born ownership of
certain types of businesses dwarfs United States-born ownership.  A full 90
percent of the city's dry cleaning and taxi service owners are immigrants, as
are 84 percent of grocery store owners and 75 percent of child day care owners.

Immigrants also have a strong presence in higher-skilled professions.  Among
computer systems design, architectural and engineering businesses, 40 percent of
owners are foreign born.

The study notes that while the percentage of immigrant business owners is
greater than the share of immigrants in the overall population, it is similar to
the share of immigrants in the labor force, which is 46 percent.  This means
that New York's immigrants are more likely than their American-born peers both
to own small businesses and to be in the labor force.

A 2008 analysis by the federal Small Business Administration found that, across
the country, immigrants are nearly 30 percent more likely to start a business
than are nonimmigrants.

Despite their numbers, immigrant entrepreneurs must navigate a sea of obstacles
beyond the normal challenges that all small business owners face.  One recent
study showed that immigrants in New York were less likely than nonimmigrants to
own a business that has been running for more than three-and-a-half years, and
more likely to have shut down a business within the past year.

One commonly cited hurdle is a lack of access to the capital needed to start or
expand a company.  While most banks hesitate to loan money to any small
business, which can be a risky, time-consuming process, they are especially
reluctant to lend to immigrants, who often have little collateral and bad or
nonexistent credit histories, experts say.

The situation is made worse for immigrants when banks send loan applications to
distant offices to be evaluated, said Paul Quintero, CEO of ACCION USA, a New
York-based microlender.

"You put an application in and it's processed by someone in Omaha," said Mr.
Quintero.  This disadvantages immigrants, who need "people that can look into
the white of your eyes, speak your language and understand where you're coming
from."

The average ACCION small business loan is about $7,000 and, in New York City, a
majority of borrowers are immigrants.

In Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Abel Cherubin, a native of Haiti, has prepared taxes
for a local clientele -- a mix of working-class blacks, Latinos and West Indians
-- from a rented storefront for more than a decade.  But his his client base has
shrunk to 300 customers from a peak of 800 and he has had to lay off his last
few employees. He has fallen $6,000 behind on the rent and received an eviction
notice last month.

"Maybe three, four months I could be out of business," said Mr. Cherubin, 55,
who during the recession has borrowed money from a friend rather than approach a
lender, after being turned down for loans in the past.  "That's my worry: I'm
afraid one day I won't have that door to be open."

Another major barrier for foreign-born entrepreneurs is confusion about the
city's myriad business regulations.  Whether because of inexperience, language
problems or reliance on informal business networks, immigrants often
misunderstand or are unaware of the rules regarding tax filing, permits and
practices.

For instance, many ground-floor merchants in Chinatown do not realize they are
responsible for cleaning the sidewalks outside their shops until they are fined
for noncompliance, said Larry Mei, a business counselor at the Chinatown
Manpower Project.

"The business here is more regulated," Mr. Mei said.  "In China, they don't have
that many agencies that look after the businesses."

This year, the city introduced three new initiatives intended to support
immigrant business owners. They include a competition that awarded funds to
organizations that assist foreign-born entrepreneurs, free business classes to
be offered in five non-English languages and an expo this month that will
showcase immigrant-owned food manufacturing businesses.


     ·    Answers About Entrepreneurship, Part 2
     ·    Answers About Entrepreneurship
     ·    Ask About Entrepreneurship
     ·    'Worst' No Longer Describes New York Commuting Time
     ·    TimesCast: Slipping Into Poverty


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              190 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           October 12, 2011 Wednesday

From a Brooklyn Street Corner, a Women's Cleaning Cooperative Grows

BYLINE: NADIA SUSSMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 949 words



HIGHLIGHT: From a street corner in Brooklyn to starting their own company, a
group of day laborers seek a firmer financial foothold.


After years of waiting on a Brooklyn street corner trying to land jobs cleaning
houses, Teresa Bucio decided there had to be a better way to earn a living.

Like dozens of Latina immigrants, Ms. Bucio, 33, used to stand at the corner of
Division and Marcy Avenues in Williamsburg every morning, hoping to be hired.

The intersection - a bare cement triangle overlooking a sunken stretch of the
Brooklyn-Queens Expressway - is an unusual all-women day labor site where
residents of the heavily Hasidic neighborhood find people to clean their homes.
Ligia Guallpa, an advocate for day laborers who has assisted women at the site
for years, estimated that some 200 women congregated there over any given week,
and many of them are illegal immigrants.

But work is by no means guaranteed. Before the Sabbath or Jewish holidays, the
demand for cleaners increases; on other days, many women never leave the corner.

So some of them decided they would take matters into their own hands and start a
business.

"If they pick you up for two or three hours, that's good," said Ms. Bucio, who
moved to the United States from Michoacan, Mexico, with her sister in 1997. "And
if not, in any case, you go like you arrived, with empty hands."

Last November, the Bucio sisters founded the Apple Eco-Friendly Cleaning
cooperative with a handful of women whom they met at the Williamsburg hiring
site. The group advertises on recycled paper and makes its own cleaning
products, forgoing harsh chemicals for ingredients like lemon juice, glycerin,
borax and fruit oils.

The women taught themselves to make the cleansers and refined their recipes
through a combination of Internet research and trial and error.

"When we say we're from a company with a business card, they treat you
differently from the time you arrive," Yesenia Bucio, 32, Teresa Bucio's sister,
said. "I feel very good, very happy and I have very high self-esteem."

The group is using its environmentally conscious approach to attract customers
and also to protect the health of its workers. Yesenia Bucio said she used to
suffer migraines from using large quantities of bleach and other chemicals.

The Bucios grew up in rural Mexico, where their father planted corn and milked
cows. After Yesenia Bucio's husband left for the United States, they followed,
hoping for better work opportunities. The Bucios began their immigrant lives
working in clothing factories in New York for roughly $4 an hour. After one
factory was cited for labor violations and shut down, they became day laborers
in Williamsburg. The work was less steady, but the wages were significantly
higher: $8 to $10 an hour.

Still, the instability of the work and the physical toll of long days of
scrubbing spurred them to consider alternatives. They began to attend meetings
run by Ms. Guallpa, the advocate for day laborers. Ms. Guallpa, who speaks
English and Spanish fluently, helped the original group of 13 women establish
the cooperative. She recruited volunteers to advise them on various aspects of
the business, from accounting to logo design.

Volunteers often attend the Apple cooperative's weekly meetings, which are
hosted by Luz Maria Arias, another member, in her Jackson Heights, Queens,
apartment. Ms. Arias, 50, who began working as a maid as a child in Mexico, said
the cooperative helped the women recognize the value of their own labor. It has
also made material improvements in their lives.

"Here it's less time, better paid and healthier in terms of the products," Ms.
Arias said. The women now earn about twice as much per hour as they did as day
laborers, and negotiate their hours with their clients ahead of time.

During their meetings, the women review their progress and discuss subjects like
the most effective bathroom cleaners and the best way to make a bed. They also
review their finances; schedule jobs on a rotation, so that each woman gets an
equal amount of work; and brainstorm next steps to expand the business.

Progress is slow and sometimes uneven. The original group of 13 members has
dwindled to five as some found they could not commit the time required to start
a business.

Meanwhile, cleaning opportunities come and go in a highly competitive industry,
and the cooperative must compete with larger, more established companies. A
promising $5,000 contract to clean the offices of a union in Times Square fell
through when the client learned that its building's rules prevented nonunionized
workers from cleaning there.

Nonetheless, the cooperative has gained 15 steady clients, and its business is
growing.

Although they no longer have to wait for work on the corner in Williamsburg,
some of the women go back to talk about the cooperative.

"We see the needs there are at this site," Yolanda Osorno, 48, another founding
member of the group, said. Ms. Osorno came to New York from Mexico nearly four
years ago, after losing her job as an executive secretary in Mexico City. She
left behind two daughters, whose school fees she pays with the money she earns.

The cooperative aims to expand and recruit more women from the Williamsburg
hiring site, Ms. Osorno said. It also hopes to establish a mobile day labor
center for women, which would most likely be housed in a trailer, where women
would be able to receive training and resources about working in the United
States.

"We will succeed," Ms. Osorno said. "And we will help the girls of Williamsburg,
because that's where we're from. That's where we came out of."


     ·    Immigrants Play Key Role as City Entrepreneurs, Study Finds
     ·    Chasing a Name Lost to Time
     ·    City Plans $10 Million in Cuts to School Cleaning
     ·    Century-Old Immigration Debate Has Familiar Sound
     ·    Before Fame, or Jail, Ai Weiwei Was a New York 'Starving Artist'


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              191 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           October 13, 2011 Thursday

Children of Immigrants Are Focus of City-Backed Education Project

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 178 words



HIGHLIGHT: The New York Immigration Coalition announced the project, which is
meant to address troubling statistics related to graduation rates and college
preparedness.


At New York City public schools, the dropout rates among children of immigrants
are notably higher than that of their peers. Preparedness for college is
especially low - only 7 percent of students enrolled in the schools' English
Language Learners program are ready for college or a career according to state
standards, reports Kirk Semple on the SchoolBook blog.

Immigrant parents themselves often face a language barrier, a lack of
understanding of the educational system or a fear of having their immigration
status revealed.

The New York Immigration Coalition, which is made up of dozens of immigrant
organizations, has announced a city-backed project that it hopes will address
these issues. There will be a network of resource centers at schools around the
city to help immigrants learn about the American educational system. Read the
full article.


     ·    Opening Bell Rings for SchoolBook
     ·    The Budget-Cut Fandango, and a New Messenger
     ·    City Principals Bracing for Steep Budget Cuts
     ·    Brooklyn School Receives Grant to Perfect Its Chinese
     ·    Themes From the Tumult of School Closings


LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              192 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday

Rubio Denies Embellishing Family History

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 490 words



HIGHLIGHT: Challenged on whether his parents left Cuba before or after Castro
took power, Senator Marco Rubio says of his version of events, "the essential
facts of my family's story are completely accurate."


Senator Marco Rubio of Florida  on Thursday denied having embellished the story
of his family's immigration into the United States from Cuba, calling the
allegation "false" and insisting that "the essential facts of my family's story
are completely accurate."

In a statement provided by his office to The New York Times, Mr. Rubio said that
"To suggest my family's story is embellished for political gain is outrageous."

The Washington Post reported on Thursday evening that Mr. Rubio, who is often
mentioned as a likely Republican vice presidential candidate next year,
repeatedly misstated details about his parents' arrival in this country.

Mr. Rubio, a 40-year-old rising star in the Republican party, often tells the
story of how his mother and father were forced off of the Cuban island when
Fidel Castro took power in the late 1950s.

But The Washington Post reported Thursday afternoon that documents show that the
couple arrived in the United States more than two and a half years before Mr.
Castro overthrew the government of Fulgencio Batista in January of 1959.

The paper notes that Mr. Rubio's official Senate biography says that his parents
"came to America following Fidel Castro's takeover." But the paper says that
"the real story of his parents' migration appears to be a more conventional
immigrant narrative, a couple who came to the United States seeking a better
life."

The story has potentially serious political implications for Mr. Rubio, who has
been methodically managing his introduction as a national political figure. He
spent months in the Senate before giving his first speech on the floor,
preferring to remain in the background as he learned the ropes.

But his future appeared destined to be in the spotlight. His Cuban background
and the political skills he demonstrated in winning the Senate seat in 2010 has
made him a hot topic of conversation in Washington.

Mr. Rubio has said repeatedly that he is not interested in being his party's
vice presidential nominee in 2012.

Questions about whether Mr. Rubio misstated his family history could prove
problematic for him. Other politicians have been criticized for embellishing
their personal histories to improve their political situation.

In his statement, Mr. Rubio said that he just recently learned about the exact
dates of his parents' arrival in the United States.

"The dates I have given regarding my family's history have always been based on
my parents' recollections of events that occurred over 55 years ago and which
were relayed to me by them more than two decades after they happened," he said.

He added that the "essential facts" are accurate.

"They were exiled from the home country they tried to return to because they did
not want to live under communism," Mr. Rubio said in the statement. "That is an
undisputed fact and to suggest otherwise is outrageous."

The author of the Post article, Manuel Roig Franzia, is also writing a biography
of Mr. Rubio.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              193 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday

Migrants from Sanity

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 936 words



HIGHLIGHT: While thousands of jobs go unfilled, politicians talk about death
fences and illegal lawn help in the Great Disconnect over immigration.


With 14 million Americans out of work, you would think somebody could answer the
desperation call from farmers offering to pay $150 to anyone willing to pick
fruit in the orchards of Washington State.  But no, the apples hang at peak
ripeness, a near-record crop, and the jobs go begging, despite radio ads and an
appeal by Governor Christine Gregoire to the other Washington for help.

One thing the United States still does better than most countries is grow food.
But one thing it now does worse than others is govern to solve problems.  And
so, the apples rot,  businesses are crippled, and dreams of fresh life in a new
country are dashed.  This dystopian status quo exists because the simple-minded
who control one of the major political parties have shut down all adult talk on
the subject of immigration.

Roll the tape from Tuesday's Republican presidential debate, and there you see a
front-runner, Mitt Romney, who spoke the Michael Kinsley definition of a gaffe -
telling the truth by accident. It came after he was needled about the Latino man
without proper papers who used to labor on the 2.5 acre lawn of the Romney
estate.

"I'm running for office, for Pete's sake,"  Romney recalled telling the lawn
service, in words that will be replayed over and over.  "I can't have illegals."


Romney was part of the shadow economy that keeps grass clipped, apples picked
and chickens plucked in every part of this country.   If he'd said, "Who else is
going to cut my lawn?" at least he'd have started an honest debate.

Another front-runner, the pizza salesman Herman Cain, has vowed to build a
multi-billion-dollar fence along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico. As he
envisions it, this 20-foot-high barrier will be topped by barbed wire and fully
juiced, in order to kill by electric shock all challengers - mothers with
children and young men alike.

This country has long been known for the words of the Emma Lazarus sonnet at the
base of the Statue of Liberty:  "Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled
masses yearning to breathe free."  That line should bring tears to any
descendant of an immigrant, which is to say most Americans.  But some
Republicans apparently want to replace that motto with: Kill the Mexicans.

Cain initially sloughed off this suggestion, saying it was a joke.  But then he
clarified it a few days later with these words: "I don't apologize for using a
combination of a fence. And it might be electrified - I'm not walking away from
that."

More telling - and truly chilling - is the fact that the audience at the
Tea-Party-sponsored Cain speech on Saturday cheered when he initially promised
to electrocute Mexicans. "The fence is going to be electrified, and there is
going to be a sign on the other side that says, 'It will kill you.'"

Now, substitute Irish for Mexicans and imagine the reaction.  You simply could
never say such a thing.  But Latinos - they can be routinely dehumanized to
appease the black-hearted  base of the Republican Party.  It's not hard to see
how talk of killing Mexicans, for what is a misdemeanor offense, is such a dis
to many of the 50 million Americans who are Latino - the largest ethnic group in
the country.

Cain's comments were the last straw for Lauro Garza, a longtime Texas Republican
and fierce conservative. He quit the party this week in disgust, saying he was
appalled that people cheered remarks by Cain that "advocated for the murder of
innocent people."  Sorry, Mr. Garza, but that's the party base of 2011, the same
folks who booed a gay soldier serving in Iraq, and applauded the idea of letting
a sick but uninsured man die in the hospital emergency room.

And, just as not a single Republican candidate stood up for the soldier in
harm's way who had been booed, no one on the stage in Las Vegas challenged Cain
on his lethal border suggestions.

A former front-runner, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, actually had some good ideas on
immigration that enjoyed - not so long ago - bipartisan support.  But the
stiff-shouldered, sentence-snagged, swagger-shrunken Texas governor has dropped
so fast with that moderate position that he's now reduced to calling Herm Cain
"brother," and assailing Romney for the Latino on his lawn.

Meanwhile, jobs go begging: in Alabama, which passed the nation's harshest
anti-immigrant law; in Georgia, where the governor suggested using convicts to
work in the fields after 11,000 jobs went unfilled; and in the orchards of
Washington, where the flow to the far north has diminished mainly because of the
recession.

Well then, why not hire only people with full citizenship? One farmer in
Colorado, John Harold, tried doing just that, hoping to fill harvest positions
with jobless locals looking for extra cash. But as my colleague Kirk Johnson
reported, many of those locals did not last even a full day; they complained of
the hard work in the onion fields of Colorado.

The problem, through good times and bad, is that there are millions of jobs that
Americans will not do. The solution, some combination of path to citizenship
with guest worker programs, should be within the grasp of the better political
minds.

But tepid Democrats are afraid of doing anything. And some Republicans want a
death fence, and will go after anyone who has an illegal on his lawn.  It's the
great disconnect - yet another reason why so many Americans have a higher regard
for a single-celled protozoan than a politician working the stump.


     ·    Cold Pizza from Herm Cain
     ·    Is This Man the G.O.P.'s Best Bet for 2012?
     ·    Beyond Refugee Camps, a Better Way
     ·    Evangelicals, Republicans and the Civil War
     ·    For Some With Autism, Jobs to Match Their Talents


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              194 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           October 26, 2011 Wednesday

How a Sonnet Made a Statue the 'Mother of Exiles'

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 975 words



HIGHLIGHT: The words of a fourth-generation American helped transform the
original meaning of the Statue of Liberty into a beacon for those arriving in
America for the first time.


When the Goddess of Liberty was given to the United States, its donor's agenda
was to burnish France's republican roots after the oppressive reign of Napoleon
III and to celebrate the two nations' commitment to the principles of liberty.

The only immigrants mentioned at the dedication in 1886 were the "illustrious
descendants of the French nobility" who fought on behalf of the United States
against Britain during the American Revolution.

But it was the words of a fourth-generation American whose father was a wealthy
sugar refiner and whose great-great-uncle welcomed George Washington to Newport,
R.I., that almost single-handedly transformed the monumental statue in New York
Harbor into the "Mother of Exiles" that would symbolically beckon generations of
immigrants.

Emma Lazarus's poem only belatedly became synonymous with the Statute of
Liberty, whose 125th birthday as a gift from France will be celebrated on Friday
by the National Park Service.

Lazarus's "New Colossus," with its memorable appeal to "give me your tired, your
poor," was commissioned for a fund-raising campaign by artists and writers to
pay for the statue's pedestal.

But while the poem was critically acclaimed - the poet James Russell Lowell
wrote that he liked it "much better than I like the Statue itself" because it
"gives its subject a raison d'etre which it wanted before quite as much as it
wants a pedestal" - it was not even mentioned  at the dedication ceremony.

Finally in 1903, after relentless lobbying by a friend of Lazarus who was
descended from Alexander Hamilton, himself an immigrant, it was "affixed to the
pedestal as an ex post facto inscription," the art historian Marvin Trachtenberg
wrote.

"Gradually, thereafter, the awareness spread not only of the significance of the
lines of the poem but also of the significance of the aspect of national
tradition it expressed," another historian, Oscar Handlin, wrote. "Liberty was
not simply the bond between ancient allies; nor was it only the symbol of
liberal ideas of justice and freedom; it was also the motive force that had
peopled the wilderness and made the country that emerged what it was."

Barry Moreno, a historian of the statue for the National Park Service, recalled
that it "was never built for immigrants."

"It was," he recalled, "built to pay tribute to the United States of America,
the Declaration of Independence, American democracy, and democracy throughout
the world. It honored the end of slavery, honored the end of all sorts of
tyranny and also friendship between France and America."

Only later, he added, "letters were written home, word of mouth, taught people
that you would see this wonderful goddess in New York Harbor when you arrived in
America to welcome you."

"And she became really famous among immigrants," he recalled. "And it was really
immigrants that lifted her up to a sort of a glory that was probably before
America really fully embraced her."

Lazarus, who popularized that "wonderful goddess,"  accepted the commission only
begrudgingly - few poets relish the idea of writing on demand. But she was
stirred by a wave of pogroms against Jews in Russia and by her regular visits to
poor immigrants housed in temporary shelters on Wards Island. She would make
"The New Colossus" the first entry in a compendium of poems she anthologized
shortly before her death from Hodgkin's disease at 38 in 1887.

The poem went unmentioned in her obituary in The New York Times, but it appeared
in a brief article in 1903 when the plaque was dedicated. (An exhibition on
Lazarus, the "Poet of Exiles," opens Wednesday at the Museum of Jewish Heritage
in Lower Manhattan.A manuscript of the poem is at the Center for Jewish
History.)

"Emma Lazarus was the first American to make any sense of this statue,'' said
Esther Schor, an English professor at Princeton and author of a biography titled
"Emma Lazarus."

"Conceived by the French statesman Edouard Rene de Laboulaye, the statue was to
propound the values of the French Revolution, in a sort of end-run around the
repressive Second Empire of Napoleon III," Professor Schor said. "But Americans
were so unmoved and uninterested that it was hard to raise money simply to build
a pedestal to support it."

For Lazarus, who wrote the sonnet in 1883 having seen only the torch when it was
on display for a fund-raising drive in Madison Square Park, "it was a moment of
moral and spiritual recovery, after her attempts to raise money to benefit the
Russian-Jewish refugees of 1881-82 had largely fallen on deaf ears," Professor
Schor said.

Instead of retreating, she broadened her appeal to all immigrants, Professor
Schor said. For her "the statue was a special kind of mother - a 'mother of
exiles' - a mother whose mission is not to reproduce herself, but rather to
adopt the abandoned, the orphaned, the persecuted," she said.

"She's tender and accepting," Professor Schor said, "but also fiercely
protective, and her iconoclastic message smashes the icons of enlightenment and
imperialism."

The sonnet would survive periodic efforts to excise her reference to "wretched
refuse" and would become enshrined in the political lexicon in the 1930s as an
anthem for Americans who, with war again threatening in Europe, lobbied to
reverse anti-immigration quotas that had been imposed a decade earlier.

"The irony is that the statue goes on speaking, even when the tide turns against
immigration - even against immigrants themselves, as they adjust to their
American lives,'' Professor Schor said. "You can't think of the statue without
hearing the words Emma Lazarus gave her.''


     ·    Study Finds That Immigrants Are Central to Long Island Economy
     ·    After Mysterious Delay, Mysterious Approval of Kurdish Advocate's Visa
     ·    Joyeux Anniversaire (un peu tot), Lady Liberty
     ·    'I'm Proud to Be a Citizen': 18 Are Sworn In
     ·    Love Blessed by Lady Liberty Lives On


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              195 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           October 27, 2011 Thursday

Study Finds That Immigrants Are Central to Long Island Economy

BYLINE: MEREDITH HOFFMAN

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 706 words



HIGHLIGHT: The report, using census data, found that immigrant households on the
island made an annual income not far behind that of American-born families.


Immigrants, those who are here legally and illegally, are important contributors
to the economy on Long Island and are a relatively affluent group, according to
a report to be released on Thursday.

The median income for a family with at least one immigrant adult was $98,000,
compared with $110,000 for families headed by American-born adults, the report
by the Fiscal Policy Institute said.

The report, "New Americans on Long Island" (see also below), states that in
Nassau and Suffolk Counties, two of the country's 50 most affluent counties,
immigrants represent about 16 percent of the population and add about 17 percent
of value to the economy through their work.

The Fiscal Policy Institute - a union-supported, nonpartisan research and
advocacy group  - based its findings on Census Bureau data from 2009 and 2010.

Illegal immigration, especially as it contributes to the pool of day laborers,
has been a flashpoint on Long Island with some towns aggressively policing
gathering spots for immigrants seeking temporary jobs.

In 2008, an unarmed Ecuadorean immigrant, Marcelo Lucero, was stabbed to death
by a group of teenagers in a racially motivated attack that shone a spotlight on
anti-Hispanic crime on Long Island.

Advocates for immigrants said that the report helps debunk arguments made by
some elected officials on Long Island that immigrants are a financial drain and
instead shows that they are an integral part of the region's economy.

"Immigrants are home owners, business owners, entrepreneurs, hard workers," said
Maryann Slutsky, director of Long Island Wins
, an immigrant advocacy group.

Indeed, immigrants perform a variety of jobs, and are slightly overrepresented
in jobs in the professional and health fields, though they are very
overrepresented in low-income service jobs, according to the Fiscal Police
Institute's study.

Immigrants are also small business owners, with 22 percent of all Long Island
small businesses owned by immigrants. Most immigrants live in homes they own -
75 percent, compared with 86 percent of United States-born residents in Long
Island - and they pay roughly the same amount as native-born Americans in
property taxes. The study reports that many illegal immigrants work in service,
while a small number work in construction; over half pay taxes on their income,
the study said.

Long Island's immigrant population is also diverse.

Immigrants from El Salvador are the largest concentration, representing 12
percent of immigrants, followed by those from India, Italy and the Dominican
Republic. Natives of Mexico make up only  3 percent of Long Island's immigrant
population.

Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, who has taken a hard line on illegal
immigration, contended that the study was done by a "left-leaning" group that
did not adequately distinguish between documented and illegal immigrants.

"No one is denying that legal immigration contributes to our culture and our
economy," Mr. Levy said in an interview. "It looks like selective data was put
into this study omitting the drain on services that come about from the illegal
population."

But David Kallick, the director of the Fiscal Policy Insitute's  Immigrant
Research Initiative, said that the report included "the best data there is about
undocumented on Long Island."

"I think it's really important for Long Island to move on from such an
overheated immigration discussion," Mr. Kallick said. "The last thing we want to
do is to follow the path of places like Arizona and Alabama where they seem to
be going out of their way to create an off-putting climate for immigrants and
that's hurting them economically and socially."

The Fiscal Policy Institute's study was analyzed by Pearl Kamer, the chief
economist for the Long Island Association, the regions' largest business group.

"The findings are sufficiently detailed to show the role that immigrants play in
the economy,'' Ms. Kamer said, "and to guide policy makers in serving the
immigrant community."


     ·    How a Sonnet Made a Statue the 'Mother of Exiles'
     ·    After Mysterious Delay, Mysterious Approval of Kurdish Advocate's Visa
     ·    'I'm Proud to Be a Citizen': 18 Are Sworn In
     ·    A 'Potential Problem' for Strauss-Kahn's Accuser
     ·    Bloomberg Advises Trump to Drop 'Birther' Issue


LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              196 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday

The Weekend Word: Second Look

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 495 words



HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at
the president's weekly address and happenings in Washington.


Today's Times


     ·    The White House has brought in a well-known businessman to review all
          government loans to energy companies, Jackie Calmes reports. News of
          the audit comes as House Republicans announced they will consider
          subpoenaing the Department of Energy's loan portfolio and
          investigating the half-billion-dollar loan to Solyndra.



     ·    Many Republican freshmen in Congress are advocating for immigration
          policy to be changed in bite-size pieces that could help bring order
          to the immigration system, maintain a strong push for better federal
          border security and help redefine their party's increasingly
          anti-immigration image. As election season gears up, leading
          Republicans are warning that their party's image among Hispanics is
          being significantly damaged, Jennifer Steinhauer reports.



     ·    Herman Cain is becoming known for walking back provocative statements,
          which raises questions about his grasp of issues and his readiness for
          office, Trip Gabriel reports. Signs are mounting that Republican
          primary voters may not be so forgiving of his revisionism on the issue
          of abortion.



     ·    The office of the Justice Department's inspector general on Friday
          retracted its much-publicized claim that the agency had spent $16 per
          breakfast muffin at a conference, Charlie Savage reports. And it
          expressed regret for the "significant negative publicity" for the
          department and for the hotel that hosted the meeting that resulted
          from the erroneous finding in a report last month.


Weekly Address


     ·    President Obama used a new economic report to confirm a rising
          national fear -- the growing divide between the earnings of the top
          one percent of Americans and the income of the average middle-class
          family. "Now, in this country, we don't begrudge anyone's wealth or
          success -- we encourage it," he said in his weekly address. "But
          America is better off when everyone has had the chance to get ahead --
          not just those at the top of the income scale." His attempts to
          restore a sense of security to middle-class Americans are illustrated
          in a set of proposals that he claims will add jobs to the economy and
          cut taxes for families and small businesses. "The truth is, we can no
          longer wait for Congress to do its job," he said. "If we want to
          rebuild an economy where every American has the chance to get ahead,
          we need every American to get involved. That's how real change has
          always happened, and that's how it'll happen today."


Around the Web


     ·    Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is hoping to get the conservative media to
          back him as the "true" conservative candidate, Politico reports.


Happenings in Washington


     ·    President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama will greet
          trick-or-treaters on Saturday at the North Portico of the White House,
          which will be lit orange for the occasion.



     ·    The 36thannual Marine Corps Marathon will run through Northern
          Virginia and Washington on Sunday.



     ·    The Early Word: Networking
     ·    The Early Word: Anxiety
     ·    The Early Word: Infiltration
     ·    The Early Word: Piecemeal
     ·    The Early Word: Talk and Tone


LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              197 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           November 9, 2011 Wednesday

For an Immigrant, a Shrinking Business and a Maze of Obstacles

BYLINE: PATRICK WALL

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 988 words



HIGHLIGHT: Foreign-born business owners, like Abel Cherubin, must tread through
a thicket of obstacles, which have only been compounded during the economic
downturn.


In better times, Abel Cherubin maintained a staff of six at his tax preparation
business in Brooklyn, drove a BMW and even purchased a plot of land in his
native Haiti, where he planned to build a school.

But in recent years, as his client base shrank by more than half, Mr. Cherubin,
54, has been forced to lay off the last of his employees, walk rather than drive
to work and halt the construction of his Haitian school.  Last month, Mr.
Cherubin narrowly avoided eviction.  Now, he has six weeks to raise the
remaining $5,000 he owes his landlord.

Immigrants like Mr. Cherubin represent about 69,000 of New York City's 144,000
small business owners, according to a recent report by the Fiscal Policy
Institute.

Though these foreign-born entrepreneurs fuel New York's economy with jobs, tax
revenue, and goods and services, they must tread through a thicket of obstacles,
which have only been compounded during the economic downturn.

Nationwide, immigrants are more likely than their American counterparts to start
businesses, according to a 2008 analysis by the federal Small Business
Administration.  Experts offer various reasons: a lack of job opportunities due
to skill or language challenges, the influence of business-owning peers or even
a risk-taking spirit.

"It takes a certain type of person to say, 'I'm going to leave my homeland and
seek out opportunities in another place,'" said Carl Hum, president and chief
executive of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce.  "It's that same DNA that leads a
person to say, 'I can't find a job, so I'm going to create my own job.'"

Mr. Cherubin came to New York from Gonaives, Haiti, in 1983. His mother had
implored her son - a university-trained industrial mechanic with a "big mouth" -
to avoid the fate of his father, a political prisoner who died in jail.

Once here, Mr. Cherubin worked in factories and drove taxis and a school bus
before enrolling in a course on financial services.  Soon afterward, Mr.
Cherubin used his savings to rent a storefront in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and
open his own insurance sales and tax preparation business.

For 16 years, Mr. Cherubin has run the business and, for much of that time, he
prospered.  He estimates that his business generated income of $300,000 annually
in his best years - enough for him to hire a staff, send relatives monthly
remittances and purchase the Haitian artwork that covers the walls of his
office.

But beginning in 2007, Mr. Cherubin's clientele - a mix of working-class blacks,
Latinos and West Indians - dwindled to 300 customers, from a peak of 800.  He
said many longtime customers left the city because of financial problems or
replaced him with cheaper, online tax services.  Last year, his total revenue
dropped to $65,000.

With his earnings drastically reduced, Mr. Cherubin has struggled to cover basic
operating costs and has had to borrow thousands of dollars from friends.  In
October, after his landlord began eviction proceedings, Mr. Cherubin paid $4,500
in back rent using money lent to him by his girlfriend.  In the coming weeks, he
plans to ask friends for the $5,000 he still owes his landlord.  He hopes to
repay them during tax season - provided he is still in business.

Meanwhile, he has stopped answering calls from some Haitian relatives, fearing
they would ask for money he does not have.

"Mentally, it's a lot of stress," Mr. Cherubin said. " Sometimes you lose
weight, you don't sleep at night. You ask yourself, 'If things become worse,
what you going to do?'"

The recession and its aftermath have battered many of the city's small business
owners, regardless of their country of origin.  But immigrants often face
additional challenges as they try to weather the tough economy.  A 2009 study by
Babson College and Baruch College found that immigrants in New York were less
likely than nonimmigrants to own a business that has been running for more than
three and a half years, and more likely to have closed a business within the
past year.

Language issues make it difficult for some foreign-born business owners to
comply with the city's many business regulations or to reach customers beyond
local ethnic enclaves.  Others lack experience and fumble with business basics
like record keeping, payroll and marketing.

A major stumbling block for Mr. Cherubin has been borrowing money. Many
small-business owners struggle to obtain loans from risk-averse banks, but
immigrants often have a harder time, as many possess little collateral and have
bad or nonexistent credit histories.

"We've come across a lot of strong businesses whose growth is hampered by access
to credit," said Nancy Carin, executive director of the Business Outreach Center
Network, based in New York, which offers technical assistance and loans to small
businesses.

Mr. Cherubin applied to the city and a private bank for loans in the past, but
in each case he was denied because of his low credit rating, he said.  As a
result, he turned to family members and friends for money.

Some critics say the city has not done enough to support foreign-born
entrepreneurs and to incorporate them into its broader economic development
plans.  City officials noted several new initiatives meant to provide funding,
training and exposure to foreign-born business owners.

Meanwhile, Mr. Cherubin is unsure whether his business will survive the few
months left until tax season.  Normally, he would paint bright scenes of the
Haitian countryside to ease his mind, but this latest financial uncertainty has
kept him away from the canvas.

"If you paint when you have trouble, everyone will see that," said Mr. Cherubin.
"When they see your painting, they will see your sorrow."


     ·    From a Brooklyn Street Corner, a Women's Cleaning Cooperative Grows
     ·    Promoting More Visits Between Korea and New York
     ·    $13.5 Million in Incentives Lures a Publishing Company
     ·    Steuben Glass Factory and Store to Close
     ·    Obama Jobs Plan Would Boost the City, Comptroller Says


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              198 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (City Room)

                           November 15, 2011 Tuesday

On the Soccer Field, a Roster Full of Refugees

BYLINE: COREY KILGANNON

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 850 words



HIGHLIGHT: A league affiliated with the United Nations provides a welcome
respite for refugees from oppression and turmoil.


 In a Wednesday night league held on Roosevelt Island, the sidelines are clearly
marked, but the games are very much without borders.

This is especially true for the refugee team that plays in this United Nations
soccer league made up of players who work at the U.N.

The refugee team is fielded by the International Rescue Committee, a
nongovernmental international relief organization that works with immigrants
fleeing oppression. The refugee team has six players who have come in recent
months from countries including Guinea, Mauritania and Sierra Leone.

There was also Tara Gurung, 18, an ethnic Bhutanese man who spent years in a
refugee camp in Nepal. Playing on a recent Wednesday night, he roamed the
midfield, quick as a jack rabbit, and hungrily chased down the ball.

There was Basim Mghamis, 24, at forward, who fled war-torn Iraq as a teenager
and lived in several countries before coming to New York last year. Defending
the goal was Shafiq Haidari, 28, who fled the Taliban in Afghanistan and came to
the United States in July.

"It's something we can all play together," said Mr. Haidari, of the soccer
competition.

The rest of the team this night -- the games are played with seven players on
each side -- was made up of committee staff members and volunteers. The on-field
roster varies week to week, since most of the refugees hold jobs with long hours
and unusual shifts.

The team is not exactly eating up the competition - it has lost all of its seven
games so far - but the players do work well together, despite many of the
refugees' limited English.

"The common thing here is soccer; they each know how to play and where to go
with it," said Vanessa Pirandello, a communications coordinator for the
committee, which is based in Midtown Manhattan. "The team is an attempt to
reconnect them to a sport they all love and reconnect them to other people in
New York City. This is the United Nations league, and our team is a little
United Nations in itself."

For some players, the league is their first opportunity to play soccer since
arriving in the United States and a return to something normal and carefree, Ms.
Pirandello said as she walked the sidelines and cheered for the refugee players.

Also watching was the league president, Alvaro Calderon.

"The team is an example of one of our goals, bringing people together and
creating friendship through sport," said Mr. Calderon, who recently retired as a
librarian in the U.N. library. Each year, he said, league officials pick an
all-star team for a World Cup, of sorts, of United Nations teams all over the
world.

The league runs from September through December. There are 16 teams in the
league and they have names like the Balkan Express, U.N. Security, Unicef and
Peace United. In its early years, the league played its games on Randall's
Island and had many high-level players, including Rich Chinapoo, a fullback from
Trinidad who played for Long Island University in Brooklyn and went on to play
for the New York Cosmos in the early 1980s.

Next to the game involving the team with refugees was another match between a
Serbian team and a squad of security guards from the United Nations. Sometimes
diplomatic complexities disrupt a team's schedule, Mr. Calderon said. For
example, the security team loses some of its key players when they have to
travel to help guard the secretary general.

The games are held on a field of artificial turf next to the East River.  On
this night, the river was dark and glassy and running swiftly southward toward
New York Harbor. Big, black tankers slipped by, in front of the Manhattan
skyline, seemingly within kicking distance. At one point, a shot toward the
refugee team's goal went wide and the ball sailed into the river and was swept
away by the current.

The International Rescue Committee helps people uprooted or affected by violence
and oppression. It provides emergency relief and resettlement services. It
helped Mr. Haidari, for example, get settled in Flushing, Queens, where there
are many Afghani immigrants.

Mr. Haidari entered the game as the goaltender but was momentarily confused
about what jersey to wear. Teammates on the sideline yelled at him to come over
and put on a jersey, but the other team - Millennium, which had largely Latin
American and Caribbean players --  was headed down field toward him, on attack.

"What to do?" he yelled, in confusion. He grabbed the jersey and pulled it on,
and then blocked a barrage of shots.

Mr. Mghamis said he fled his home in Karbala, Iraq, in 2005, as a teenager and
lived in Lebanon before coming to New York in 2009. He now lives in the Grand
Concourse section of the Bronx and works at a bakery near  his home.

He took off his cleats after the game and said, "In my country, we are born with
soccer, so it feels good to play it again."


     ·    In a Willets Pt. Junkyard, Soccer Claims Eminent Domain
     ·    Study Finds That Immigrants Are Central to Long Island Economy
     ·    How a Sonnet Made a Statue the 'Mother of Exiles'
     ·    Land Deal Is Announced to Allow New U.N. Tower and Esplanade
     ·    After Mysterious Delay, Mysterious Approval of Kurdish Advocate's Visa


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              199 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (The Lede)

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday

Cat-and-Mole Games on the Mexican Border

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY

LENGTH: 490 words



HIGHLIGHT: Although authorities in Mexico and the United States celebrated this
week after uncovering a tunnel used by smugglers, the traffickers are unlikely
to stop digging.


Authorities in San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico, trumpeted the news this week that
they had seized more than 17 tons of marijuana and closed down a tunnel used to
smuggle drugs under the border between the two countries.

As NBC San Diego reported, United States officials announced on Wednesday that
they had discovered the tunnel the day before, when they arrested two men
driving a truck packed with three tons of marijuana from a warehouse near the
Mexican border.

Investigators seized another six tons of drugs in the warehouse. About 400 yards
away, Mexican authorities found another eight tons of marijuana in a warehouse.

Journalists in Mexico were given a tour of the tunnel, which was sophisticated
enough to have wooden supports and an electrical system, perhaps used to power
lighting and ventilation.

Bales of marijuana seized from around the tunnel were marked with labels for
Captain America, Bud Light and Sprite, apparently a coded system to identify
their owners.

The Los Angeles Times reported: "Dozens of the packages were labeled with
pictures of Captain America, the symbol used by a major operator of the Sinaloa
drug cartel in Tijuana, said Mexican Gen. Gilberto Landeros Briseno, in an
interview with the Mexican media."

While the law-enforcement agents on both sides of the border celebrated the
apparent blow they'd struck against the smugglers, that they made an almost
identical announcement, in the same part of San Diego, 12 months ago suggests
that the cartels do not stop digging when one of their tunnels is put out of
commission.

As The Associated Press reported, "more than 70 tunnels have been found on the
border since October 2008." In a raid last November, the task force found two
tunnels linking San Diego and Tijuana, lined with rail tracks.

After those tunnels were discovered, United States officials distributed this
video news release, showing images of the tunnel and tons of seized marijuana
over music that seemed to have been borrowed from a movie soundtrack.

After that raid, American officials sought to maximize the publicity for their
victory over the cartels, inviting television crews from CNN, the BBC and The
A.P. on tours of the most sophisticated tunnel.

But even in the midst of that publicity barrage, as his agency sought to convey
the message that it was disrupting the smugglers, one United States Immigration
and Customs Enforcement agent, Tim Durst, sounded a less optimistic note in an
interview with The A.P. "This is somewhat of a cat-and-mouse game," he observed.
"As long as there's a demand for the supply of drugs in the United States, then
the drug smuggling organizations are going to continue to move." And,
presumably, to dig.


     ·    Move to Legalize Marijuana in California Sparks Fears About Drop in
          Prices
     ·    L.A. City Council and D.A. Spar Over Medical Marijuana Law
     ·    Thousands Sign Up for Virtual Border Patrol
     ·    Fun With California's Marijuana Laws
     ·    Latest Updates on Occupy Oakland Protest


LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              200 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Loyal Opposition)

                            November 18, 2011 Friday

D.H.S. Responds on Deportation

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 676 words



HIGHLIGHT: What, exactly, is the point of Homeland Security's deportation binge?



A representative from Homeland Security, Matt Chandler, took issue with a blog
post I wrote yesterday about a new deportation policy, arguing that I'd unfairly
questioned the department's intentions.

Here's the background: Yesterday The Times ran a story on a Homeland Security
review of deportation cases, an "accelerated triage of the court docket" that
will focus on removing "the worst offenders," like "criminal aliens"-not on
foreigners whose only transgression is being present in the U.S. without legal
status. Despite this re-focusing, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano
said the annual number of deportations would not decrease from current
levels-400,000 a year.

I wondered how this could be so. Sixty percent of deportations between October
2008 and February 2011 were of non-criminals or "low priority" criminals (those
who'd committed a misdemeanor years ago, say), so how could Homeland Security
simultaneously concentrate on "the worst offenders"  maintain the 400,000 rate?
I concluded that there are two possibilities: either Homeland Security does not
intend to keep up the deportation rate and is merely trying to appease
anti-immigration hardliners, or it does not actually intend to re-focus on
criminals.

Mr. Chandler kindly explained that in addition to illegal immigrants who commit
felonies and misdemeanors (note "misdemeanors," which can mean pretty much
anything), "priority categories" for deportation include recent border crossers
and "egregious" violators of immigration law. He also said that 90% of total
removals  one of these categories. This is supposed to make me feel better about
the department's policy, but it does not.

Assuming the accuracy of the 90% figure, Homeland Security only needs to find
another 40,000 immigrants a year that fall into one of the "priority categories"
in order to keep deporting 400,000. Not impossible. But that suggests the policy
is not designed to bring real changes, and that Homeland Security "has no
intention of truly focusing its efforts on criminals" (as I put it).

Recent border crossers are not greater security risks than other foreigners, are
they?  If your goal is to be as hard as possible on those who come to this
country without permission, I suppose you'd want to target "egregious"
immigration law violators, but they don't necessarily pose a safety risk,
either.

Moreover, Homeland Security's "criminal alien" category is full of air, to put
it politely. Of the 216,698 criminal aliens deported in the past year, 1,119
were convicted of homicide and 5,848 of sexual offenses. An additional 35,927
had D.U.I.s, and 44,653 were busted for "crimes involving drugs"-which sounds
awfully expansive, likely roping in foreigners busted for smoking a joint on the
street (and not necessarily an American street). That adds up to about 87,000 of
the more than 216,000 "criminal" deportees. As for the rest, Homeland Security
doesn't say, and attempts to get them to meet their legal obligations to answer
to the public have not had much success. But we know from many news accounts
that the criminal alien category also includes low-level misdemeanors, traffic
violations and other non-violent offenses that have no bearing on national
security.

Whatever the overarching purpose of Homeland Security's deportation binge may
be, and for the life of me I can't figure out what it is beyond mere punitive
action, it sure isn't focused on making the country safer.

Nor does it have anything to do with solving the illegal immigrant problem.
Deport 400,000 people a year and, assuming not a single person comes in without
documents, it would take 20 years to depart all the undocumented immigrants in
this country. And to what purpose? This country was built on immigration. It
continues to thrive on immigration. What we need is comprehensive immigration
reform, not a government policy that begins and ends with building a fence and
shoving as many people out as possible.


     ·    Will They Stay or Will They Go?
     ·    Opinion Report: Civil Rights in Alabama
     ·    Oppression Is Not a State's Right


LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              201 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (T Magazine)

                            November 21, 2011 Monday

Ravenous | The Stuffing Theory

BYLINE: MONIQUE TRUONG

SECTION: T-MAGAZINE; food

LENGTH: 1278 words



HIGHLIGHT: How my immigrant family, like others, have adopted the traditional
American feast.


"He who controls the stuffing, controls the universe!" In a recent
Thanksgiving-themed episode of "South Park," these portentous words came from
the mouth of Myles Standish, the military leader of the Plymouth Colony. If you
missed the episode, the Pilgrims and Indians were both from outer space, and had
a long-held but recently broken truce over their respective rights to "the
stuffing caves" - and mayhem and hilarity ensues.

I too have a theory about stuffing. It doesn't involve domination and space
aliens but does involve immigrants and adaptation. (That sentence explains why
I'm a financially strapped writer of literary fiction and not a television
writer with a house in the Hollywood Hills.)

For many years, my family, newcomers then to the land of milk and honey, sat
down to our Thanksgiving feast with mixed emotions. With every bite of turkey,
sweet potatoes, cranberry sauce and pumpkin pie, we were joining in a
celebration (some would say "myth") of nation building and a ritual of family
gathering. These were American rites that we wouldn't dream of ignoring or
skipping, even if this country didn't yet feel like our home and our extended
family was, in fact, a world away.

I remember one year when my emotions weren't mixed at all. I was 10, and my
mother, a registered nurse, had to work the third shift on Thanksgiving day and
night. She left in the oven two perfectly roasted Cornish hens for my father and
me. I sobbed when I saw them. I was devastated, but not for the reason you might
think: there was no stuffing.

My mother usually made a stuffing that included ground pork, chopped onions and
shallots, roasted chestnuts, lots of ground black pepper, a hint of nutmeg and a
splash of Cognac. (The stuffing was very French, though we were all very
Vietnamese.) The little bodies of the hen wouldn't have been able to hold more
than a quarter cup of this mixture. I suppose she thought, What really was the
point?

My theory was born on that sad afternoon: stuffing is where the heart is. As I
grew older, I also understood its corollary: the heart is often elsewhere.

Usually at my prodding, as - oddly - most people don't often share stuffing
stories at parties, I've heard about families, recently and not so recently
rooted in the United States, who stuff their turkeys with Eight-Treasure sticky
rice; glass noodles with wood ear mushrooms; an aromatic mixture of rice, ground
beef, toasted pine nuts, slivered almonds, turmeric, cinnamon and cardamom; or
ground pork studded with nuts and dried fruits and singing with white wine. That
inspired list was courtesy of the culinary traditions of China, Vietnam,
Palestine and Spain, respectively. You'll find the recipe from Spain and the
family story behind it below.

The stuffing recipe that I'll use for my apple-cider-brined turkey this year? A
bag of Pepperidge Farm stuffing mix. As in past years, I'll add some sauteed
chopped celery, apples, onions and lots of fresh parsley to it, but it's
basically preseasoned and pure supermarket fare. I used that brand the first
time I ever roasted a Thanksgiving turkey, which was in my junior year in
college (when most people made their first turkey, right?). I adored the flavor
of that simple stuffing and still do. I've never felt it necessary to venture
further afield into the recipes full of sour cherries, chanterelle mushrooms or
homemade brioche crumbs. Home is a relative concept and an unwavering taste.

According to the instructions on the bag, this recipe makes enough stuffing to
fill a turkey weighing 16 to 20 pounds. I usually double the amount so that
there is both stuffing and dressing (baked in a casserole dish), as they each
have beguiling qualities to recommend them.


6 tablespoons of salted butter
1 cup chopped onions
1 cup coarsely chopped celery
1 cup coarsely chopped apples (peeled or unpeeled)
\xC2 cup chopped Italian parsley
\xC2 teaspoon fleur de sel
\xC2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 cups chicken broth
1 14-ounce bag of Pepperidge Farm Herb Seasoned Stuffing mix

1. Melt butter in a large saucepan over medium-high heat. Saute the onions until
soft and translucent. Add the celery and apple to the pan and continue sauteing
for about another 3 minutes. Remove from heat.

2. Add broth and stuffing mix to pan and mix. Add the chopped parsley, salt and
pepper.

3. Spoon the stuffing into the turkey and also into its neck cavity, allowing
enough room for the stuffing to expand during roasting.

4. If there is extra stuffing, place in a buttered casserole dish and dot the
top with butter. Bake at 350 degrees for 30 minutes. Leave the dish uncovered
for a crunchy top.

Concepcion and Rosario are mother and daughter. When Rosario left Mexico City to
study in Cambridge, Mass., her mother sent along a carefully typewritten recipe
for this relleno, which was traditionally for a Christmas turkey. Rosario
celebrated her first-ever Thanksgiving by making this stuffing for her dorm's
potluck turkey dinner. Rosario graduated, married her college sweetheart and has
long since called Cambridge home. She also has never stopped making and
modifying her mother's recipe. Concepcion was born in the town of Cardelle in
northwestern Spain, so this recipe traces its culinary roots to Galicia.

This recipe makes a luscious, very meaty stuffing that is enough for a turkey
weighing 20 to 25 pounds.


8 slices bread
1 cup whole milk
1 \xC2 cup chopped onion
1 pound bacon
1 to 2 tablespoons salted butter, if needed
2 pounds ground pork
¾ cup raisins
¾ cup golden raisins
2 cups coarsely chopped mushrooms
\xC2 cup slivered almonds, toasted
\xC2 cup pine nuts, toasted
¾ cup coarsely chopped walnuts, toasted
\xC2 cup chopped parsley
1 \xC2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
2 cups white wine (an Albarino would be perfect)

1. In a large bowl, soak the bread slices in the milk. Set aside until Step 4.

2. In a frying pan over medium heat, toast the three kinds of nuts. (Do not
combine them but rather do it in separate batches, as the nuts take different
times to become golden and fragrant.) Set the toasted nuts aside.

3. Cut the bacon into ¾-1-inch pieces. In a very large frying pan, fry the bacon
over medium heat until crispy but not dry. Remove the bacon pieces with a
slotted spoon, leaving the bacon grease behind in the pan.

4. Carefully spoon half of the bacon grease into a second large frying pan,
preferably nonstick. Depending on how much grease you have, you may have to add
an additional tablespoon or two of butter to the pan. Squeeze the excess milk
from the bread slices. (It's O.K. if they break apart as you'll be breaking them
into pieces anyway.) Discard the excess milk. Over medium heat, fry the bread
slices in the bacon grease for about 3 minutes. The goal is not to get crispy
bread slices but rather slices that are nicely coated and infused with the
flavor of the bacon grease. Set aside.

5. In the first very large frying pan with the other half of the bacon grease,
add the chopped onions and saute over medium heat until soft. Add the ground
pork and saute, breaking the meat into pieces, until no longer pink.

6. To the pork and onion mixture, add the chopped mushrooms and saute for
another 5 minutes.

7. Tear the sauteed bread slices into bite sized pieces and add to the pan,
along with the toasted nuts, the two kinds of raisins and the wine. Stir and
continue cooking for another 15 minutes. Turn off the heat and add the parsley
and salt and pepper.

8. Spoon into the body and neck cavities of the turkey.

9. Spoon any remaining stuffing into a buttered casserole and bake at 350
degrees for 40-45 minutes.


     ·    Ravenous | Preserved Unripe Figs
     ·    Ravenous | Thit Heo Kho
     ·    The Digital Ramble | Obsession


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              202 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Bits)

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday

Mobile Money for the Next 2 Billion People

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 752 words



HIGHLIGHT: New mobile services like m-Via target the poor and unbanked who want
to send money across national borders to friends and family. There are
potentially billions of new customers who can use cellphones to use the service.
If it takes hold, it has important implications for finance and development.


Mobile phones are probably the most successfully deployed technology in history,
effectively reaching more people than computers, electricity or plumbing in less
than 15 years.  Now they may start taking over money.

I recently spoke with Bill Barhydt, founder and chief executive of m-Via, a
service that enables immigrants in the United States to send money overseas. For
now, he is marketing the service to Mexican and Haitian immigrants who want to
enrich friends and family back home, but there seems no reason why his service
could not become more widely available, to different nationalities and in other
countries.

"We're trying to solve a global problem," Mr. Barhydt says. "The goal is to
capture the world's new middle class, created by migration."

"Middle" is a relative term here. Mr. Barhydt figures about half of immigrants
in the United States do not have checking accounts. Nevertheless, "middle" is
probably accurate when measured against the poverty in which much of the world
lives. If he can aggregate their demand for better financial services, this
large population could create an impressive business.

Here is how it works: Someone in the United States joins m-Via's associated
banking service, called Boom, for $10. Once verified, they can go into any of
15,000 locations, including many 7-Eleven stores, and have money loaded into
their account. The money can then be sent via text message to a smartphone in
Mexico. The person receiving the message is instructed how to set up his or her
own account (there is no fee for this, Mr. Barhydt says). The money can be
withdrawn or used for goods across thousands of stores in Mexico, at the
discretion of the owner.

"About half of the remittances to Mexico are to rural areas," Mr. Barhydt says.
"They may not have an ATM there, but they have a store and a cellular tower."

The system still has its hurdles. Like many of its precursor banks, Boom seems
to have a number of hidden fees (scroll down), including a $25 annual card fee,
a $2 money loading fee and a $1 fee to check your balance. While this amounts to
a lot less than the fees charged by traditional cross-border money transfer
services, nobody likes discovering such surprise charges.

That may not be the point. If m-Via bombs, Mr. Barhydt can adjust his fees or
move on. There are many such services emerging around the world that bring
banking to the poor via mobile phones. In South Africa, Wizzit started as a way
that migrant farm workers in one part of the country could send cash back home.
Safaricom of Kenya has a service called M-PESA, which enables people to send
funds via phone both within the country and to neighboring Uganda and Tanzania.
Developed by IBM and others, it is spreading to other countries.

There are many other interesting variations on new ways to bring the poor
airtime and money. An Ireland-based service called ezetop enables people in one
country to add minutes on the prepaid phones of someone in another country. In
some places, minutes are as valuable as money. In the United States, Google's
former chief information officer now heads a company called Zestcash, which is
attacking the traditional payday loan business with new algorithms and risk
models.

Suddenly, helping the very poor looks like a fantastic business, since the
Internet makes it easy to aggregate the small amounts of money you can make from
each person.

There are powerful implications for this service that go beyond banking.  Global
communications and cheap computing power challenges many institutions. The news
industry's business model is challenged by the likes of Twitter. Data storage
companies are challenged by companies like Dropbox. And, with companies like
m-Via, you can make a case that traditional banking is also challenged. If this
kind of thing gets big enough, so are traditional currency flows, which are the
stuff of central banks and national sovereignty.

Mr. Barhydt, who worked at the C.I.A., NASA, Goldman Sachs and Plaxo before
starting m-Via, is thinking along these lines. "We view this as a social
network, where countries have been arbitrarily imposed on people," he says. (He
notes that his company complies with all financial regulations on both sides of
the border.) "I don't look at this like a banker. I look at this like it is
Netflix."


     ·    DealBook: Best Buy Pays $1.3 Billion for Cellphone Business
     ·    Google Wallet Makes its Debut
     ·    Cellphone Market Share Shifting
     ·    Hearst's Manilla Aims to Handle Household Bills
     ·    Nokia Wants to Bring 3 Billion More Online


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              203 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                 (Opinionator)

                            November 27, 2011 Sunday

Scaling the 'Wall in the Head'

BYLINE: COSTICA BRADATAN

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1446 words



HIGHLIGHT: Walls and fences, electrified or not, protect people not from
nameless barbarians, but from their own anxieties and fears.


Walls are back in fashion. Walls and fences. Not long ago, you may recall,
Republican presidential candidates expressed their devotion to them. In October
Michele Bachmann  signed a pledge to support the construction of a fence that
would run the entire length of the United States-Mexico border. Not to be
outdone, Herman Cain voiced his support for an electrified border fence, one
juiced up enough to be lethal: Touch it and die. As someone who grew up behind
the Iron Curtain, I happen to know how the device works; in a certain way, we
invented it (we should have copyrighted it). The ability to cross  the "lethal
fence" used to be part of the East-European survival kit.

Of course, the issue has not gone away. Immigration was once again a third-rail
topic in the most recent Republican debate. A visual message appeared this week
in the media to reinforce it: The latest cover of The New Yorker magazine is a
Thanksgiving-themed illustration by the artist Christoph Niemann that shows
frightened Mayflower-era pilgrims breaching a barbed-wire fence in the desert.

While walls and fences are certainly physical things - imposing ones at that - a
good deal of their power comes from elsewhere. As their role in political
discourse makes clear, they are also things of the mind. And it is not a concept
confined by American borders. The Germans, who seem to have a name for
everything, use the phrase Mauer im Kopf  ("wall in the head") to refer to the
phenomenon. The Berlin Wall may have been torn down long ago, but many people in
Germany still feel divided; the wall is intact in their minds. (As a native of
Germany, Niemann may know a thing or two about this.) Walls can be spectacular
as architectural structures but they can be even more fascinating as entities
that inhabit our thinking and shape cultures.

Walls, then, are built not for security, but for a  of security. The distinction
is important, as those who commission them know very well. What a wall satisfies
is not so much a material need as a mental one. Walls protect people not from
barbarians, but from anxieties and fears, which can often be more terrible than
the worst vandals. In this way, they are built not for those who live outside
them, threatening as they may be, but for those who dwell within. In a certain
sense, then, what is built is not a wall, but a state of mind.

In a world of uncertainty and confusion, a wall is something to rely on;
something standing right there, in front of you - massive, firm, reassuring.
With walls come mental comfort, tranquility and even a vague promise of
happiness. Their sheer presence is a guarantee that, after all, there is order
and discipline in the world. A wall signifies the victory of geometrical reason
over anarchic impulses. What can be greater than a straight line that crosses
deserts, forests, swift rivers, unruly cities and ungovernable provinces? A
straight line is not only the shortest distance between two points, but also the
cheapest way to build a wall. Walls are geometry put into humanity's service.
True, they create divisions and distinctions, but so does reason. Walls make
things look clear and distinct; they are always Cartesian. Seen from space, the
Great Wall of China is one of the very few indications that the Earth is
inhabited by rational beings (if we leave aside the visible traces of industrial
pollution, that is).

Granted, walls can also block one's view, but that should not be such big
problem, especially when one wants to hide. At closer inspection, a wall
occasions a dual process. On one hand, by building a wall I try to hide myself,
to live in its shadow and, at the limit, make myself invisible. On the other,
however, it is precisely by building it that I come to disclose myself in a
decisive manner. Through the erection of the wall I expose myself totally; my
secret fears and anxieties can now be contemplated in all their nakedness. A
wall is above all the admission of a fundamental vulnerability.

Now, if we shift perspective and look at things from the point of view of those
who are "left out" (walled off), a wall is always perceived as an invitation. It
is a way of putting things in a more tempting light, of making them desirable.
This is all a game of teasing and seduction. There used to be nothing here, and
then, one day, suddenly a wall emerges. How can you not pay attention? The
erection of a wall signifies that someone has got something precious  that the
others should know about it. That she has erected the wall means, at a first
reading, that she does not want to share with others whatever she's got;
however, to the extent that by building the wall she lets the others know of her
new possession, it means that she may want to share after all. And that's the
point of the whole game.

As we have learned from Rene Girard, this is precisely how desires are born: I
desire something by way of imitation, because someone else already has it. This
explains why walls are so attractive and also why they are besieged, eventually
torn down and apart. They are just irresistible. It took the Ottomans several
generations to breach the walls of Constantinople. They were incredibly
stubborn, these old Turks; they persisted in their effort to the point of
settling down, setting up small towns right there, next to the city walls. But
they were not without help; their determination fed every single day on the
sight of those Constantinopolitan walls, which made the city ever more tempting
and the desire to conquer it irrepressible.

Walls are built for various reasons and they serve different purposes, but their
function is always fundamentally the same: to create divisions, to prevent
people and ideas from moving freely, and to legitimize differences. In the end,
it does not even matter whether a wall has been erected by people who are afraid
of losing some of what they possess (the most frequent situation) or governments
- like the East German state that built the Berlin Wall - afraid of losing their
people who, in the absence of any walls, would gladly go elsewhere. Once the
wall has been erected, it acquires a life of its own and structures people's
lives according to its own rules. It gives them meaning and a new sense of
direction. All those walled off now have a purpose: to find themselves, by
whatever means it takes, on the other side of the wall.

When Hadrian erected the wall in what is today Northern England in the second
century, all those left north of it  discovered an interesting new destination:
south of the wall. When the Berlin Wall was built up in 1961, people in East
Germany must have suddenly realized that there was a place absolutely worth
going to: West Berlin. For almost 30 years the Wall fueled their desire to be on
the other side. For many of them this desire was so irresistible that they had
to give in, whatever the risks; enough died trying.

Without walls, we would all certainly die of boredom. That's why, if we don't
find them in the real world, we have to invent them. In Luis Bunuel's film "El
Angel Exterminador" a group of people find themselves mysteriously trapped in a
room after a party. As the times goes by, they reveal their deeper selves. Also,
their predicament becomes terrible: some go as far as to commit suicide, one
dies, all do things through which they profoundly degrade themselves. After they
reach the lowest point, somehow they manage to get out. It is then they learn
that the wall that had kept them trapped existed only in their own minds. The
film was made in Mexico, of all places.

On a large historical scale, walls must be a blessing. And not only for the
remarkable - if unuttered - philosophical and cross-cultural conversation that
takes place continuously between those who built walls, on  one hand, and those
who want to tear them down, on the other. Above all, walls help keep the world
alive and history in motion. A wall is always a provocation, and life is
possible only as a response to provocations; a world without walls would soon
become stale and dry. After all, history itself may be nothing more than an
endless grand-scale game where some built walls only for others to tear them
down; the better the former become at wall-building the braver the latter get at
wall-tearing. The sharpening of these skills must be what we call progress.


An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that the Great Wall of
China is the only indication that the Earth is inhabited by rational beings. It
is not the only indication visible; it is one of very few.


     ·    An Interview With J.M. Bernstein
     ·    Freud as Philosopher
     ·    Happiness, Philosophy and Science
     ·    Legacy of a Fence
     ·    Experiments in Philosophy


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              204 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (India Ink)

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday

Long Wait For Green Cards Could Soon End

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 124 words



HIGHLIGHT: The House passed a bill that tweaks the visa system to allow more
highly skilled immigrants from China and India to become legal permanent
residents.


The United States House of Representatives on Tuesday passed a bill that will
allow more highly-skilled immigrants from India and China to become legal
permanent residents in the United States, Julia Preston reports.

"In most cases, Indians and Chinese who will now receive their permanent green
cards more quickly have been working in the United States for years on temporary
visas", Ms. Preston writes. "The immigrants and their employers have passed
labor market tests showing that qualified Americans were not available for jobs
they hold."

If this legislation is passed by the Senate, which is expected, it will be a big
relief for some Indians working in the United States, who may have been waiting
for years to get a green card. READ MORE


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2011 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              205 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 29, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Return of Islamic College Raises New Questions

BYLINE: By DAVID LEPESKA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1137 words


The American Islamic College, closed since 2004 when the state revoked its
operating authority, is expected early next month to win approval to reopen.

Supporters see the opening of the Chicago college, founded in 1981 in the
Lakeview neighborhood, as an important step for Islamic instruction in the
United States. But its detractors point to the college's ties to a secretive and
far-reaching international movement that has been accused of Islamism in some
countries and of an overuse of non-immigrant work visas to hire foreign teachers
in its schools in the United States.

The movement, led by Fetullah Gulen, a Turkish religious leader living in
self-imposed exile in rural Pennsylvania, supports scores of charter schools
that have gained a reputation for academic achievement and a commitment to
spreading Turkish language and culture.

Yet the Gulen schools have caused widespread concern about possible manipulation
of immigration laws and misallocation of taxpayer dollars. Mr. Gulen, an
extremely wealthy and well-connected Turkish spiritual and political leader,
fled Turkey amid charges of plotting to overthrow the secular government. He was
acquitted of all charges in 2006.

The college would become the second Islamic educational institution in the
country to offer college-level credit. For Muslims in the area, it would be a
rejoinder to those who depict followers of Islam as prone to extremism.

''It looks like a resurrection of the college, which is great,'' said Zaher
Sahloul, head of the Council of Islamic Organizations of Greater Chicago. ''It's
very important to have an institution of higher learning run by the Muslim
community.''

Top officials at American Islamic College have been linked to Mr. Gulen's
movement. In a cable obtained by Wikileaks, the United States' former ambassador
to Turkey characterized the Gulen movement as a potentially destabilizing
influence in Turkey that more secular Turks see as an effort to bring about an
Islamic state.

The Gulen movement, called Hizmet (a Turkish word meaning ''service''), promotes
public service and education and oversees research institutes, universities,
media outlets and one of Turkey's largest banks. The movement seeks to spread
Gulen's influence internationally through an informal network of 1,000 schools
in 130 countries.

Hizmet operates more than 120 publicly financed charter schools in 25 states, in
addition to a handful of private schools, like the Science Academy of Chicago,
run by Niagara Educational Services, a Mount Prospect firm associated with the
Gulen movement. Like many of the movement's American schools, the Science
Academy focuses on math and science.

Administrators of the schools often deny any official connection to the
movement, which has no formal organization or official membership but operates
through a network of followers, according to Hakan Yavuz, a political science
professor at the University of Utah and co-editor of a 2003 book on the
organization.

''It's safe to assume that A.I.C. will be influenced by the Gulen movement,''
mainly through the selection of the college's instructors and administrative
staff, Mr. Yavuz said.

''It makes sense for them to hire people from the Gulen community,'' he said,
''as they have much more knowledge and experience in the American education
system.''

According to recent news reports, the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the
Departments of Labor and Education are investigating accusations that as many as
100 of the movement's American schools have used taxpayer money to pay for the
immigration of teachers' families from Turkey and provide other financial
support for the Gulen movement.

Federal officials declined to comment.

Ali Yurtsever, head of the executive committee setting up the American Islamic
College, denied any connection with Gulen. The school will have to generate its
own income, unlike Gulen schools in the United States that are supported by the
movement, he said.

Mr. Yurtsever has long been a follower of Mr. Gulen and serves as administrator
of Niagara Educational Services. He previously was president of the Gulen-backed
Rumi Forum, a Washington research institute whose honorary president is Mr.
Gulen.

Attempts to contact Mr. Gulen through his Web site and through Mr. Yurtsever
were unsuccessful.

School officials say the college will present what Mr. Gulen has long stood for:
a more moderate form of Islam than the extremist version that has often
dominated public debate in the United States since Sept. 11, 2001. The school
plans to offer more than a dozen courses in the fall and hopes to attract up to
400 local and international students in the next few years.

The college was established 30 years ago by the Organization of the Islamic
Conference, a Saudi Arabia-based association of more than 50 predominantly
Muslim countries. In 2004, the Illinois Board of Higher Education revoked its
operating authority, citing a failure to comply with state regulations.

Now, after spending $500,000 from the Islamic Conference to renovate its
library, dorms, mosque, and 1,000-seat auditorium, the college is reopening
under new management. It is led by Mr. Yurtsever, a mathematician with a Ph.D.
from Ege University in Turkey who taught at Georgetown University.

College officials expect to receive authority to offer for-credit courses from
the Illinois Board of Higher Education on June 7. The college has applied for
full accreditation, which would allow it to confer four-year degrees.

Mr. Gulen, 70, has lived in the United States since 1999, when he left Turkey.
In a widely circulated video from that time, he advised his followers to ''move
within the arteries of the system, without anyone noticing your existence, until
you reach all the power centers.''

In the United States, Gulen schools often import Turkish teachers using H-1B
visas, which allow American employers to temporarily hire foreign workers in
specialty jobs.

The federal government places a strict limit on the number of H1-B visas it
issues, and corporations often complain the cap restrains their ability to
transfer highly qualified workers from foreign countries. Yet Gulen-backed
schools received 839 H-1B visas in 2010, a 65 percent increase from 2007,
according to The Philadelphia Inquirer.

Teachers unions and education reform groups in several states have spoken out
against the spike in foreign-born teachers at Gulen schools. ''There is no
reason to bring teachers in from other countries under the guise of lack of
staffing,'' said Jenni White, president of Restore Oklahoma Public Education.

Mr. Yavuz, the political scientist, said he did not see the movement as a
danger, ''but I don't see it as productive. ''

''I think their main goal is to improve the image of Islam in the U.S.,'' he
said, ''but even there, I don't know if they can be successful.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mustafa Kaya, a Turk attending the University of Chicago,
worked on calligraphy in a class at American Islamic College. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 1, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants in Europe

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 133 words


To the Editor:

The sad story of African immigrants chasing riches in Europe and ending up in
camps at Palos de la Frontera in Spain (front page, May 26) is made more
poignant when one realizes that this is where Columbus set sail on his famous
first voyage. He, too, was chasing riches, but from Europe to what he assumed
would be Asia, where he expected to find gold and set up a trading post with the
Grand Khan. He, too, was surprised by what he found -- unclothed natives and
less than sumptuous dwellings.

The lure of gold, however, spurred one of the greatest immigrations in history.

CAROL DELANEY Providence, R.I., May 26, 2011

The writer, emerita professor of cultural and social anthropology at Stanford
University, is the author of a forthcoming book, ''Columbus and the Quest for
Jerusalem.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 4, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

How a Democracy Works: President Obama has the authority to start fixing
immigration, if only he would use it

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 567 words


President Obama, who has spent two and a half years not delivering on his
promise to fix immigration, gave a speech in El Paso last month and cloaked his
failure in tough statistics -- this many new border agents, that much fencing,
these thousands of deportations.

As for the other parts of reform -- where millions of immigrants get right with
the law and get on with becoming Americans, where workers are better protected
-- he threw up his hands. He said immigration advocates ''wish I could just
bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that's not how a democracy
works.''

O.K., so maybe it isn't. But there is a lot President Obama can and should do,
using the discretion and authority granted to the executive branch and its
agencies to make the system work better:

Mr. Obama can bolster public safety by pulling the plug on Secure Communities, a
program that sends fingerprints of everyone booked by state or local police to
Department of Homeland Security databases to be checked for immigration
violations. It was supposed to focus on dangerous felons, but the heavy majority
of those it catches are noncriminals or minor offenders -- more than 30 percent
have no convictions for anything.

The president should listen to the many law enforcement professionals and local
officials, like the governors of New York and Illinois, who want nothing to do
with Secure Communities. They say it endangers the public by catching the wrong
people and stifling community cooperation with law enforcement.

The president can push much harder against the noxious anti-immigrant laws
proliferating in the national free-for-all. The administration sued to stop
Arizona's radical scheme. But Utah, Alabama, Indiana and Georgia are trying to
do the same thing.

He can grant relief from deportation to young people who would have qualified
for the Dream Act, a filibustered bill that grants legal status to the innocent
undocumented who enter college or the military. He can do the same for workers
who would qualify for the Power Act, a stalled bill that seeks to prevent
employers from using the threat of deportation and immigration raids to
retaliate against employees who press for their rights on the job.

He can resist Republican lawmakers who want mandatory nationwide use of
E-Verify, a flawed hiring database, which would likely lead to thousands of
Americans losing their job because of data errors. A December report by the
Government Accountability Office warned that E-Verify is plagued by inaccurate
records and vulnerable to identity theft and employer fraud.

He can order the citizenship agency to keep families intact by making it easier
for illegal immigrants who are immediate relatives of American citizens to fix
their status without having to leave the country. Many already qualify for green
cards but are afraid to risk getting stuck abroad under too-strict laws that
could bar their re-entry.

He can bolster the civil rights division of the Department of Justice and give
the Department of Labor more tools to strengthen protections for all workers and
the authority to combat labor trafficking. Such authority now lies with Homeland
Security, which means many immigrants are too frightened to speak up when their
rights are abused.

As President Obama said in El Paso, the United States needs to address ''the
real human toll of a broken immigration system.'' There's work to do, Mr.
President.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 8, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Resistance Grows: Massachusetts, New York and Illinois Reject the Obama
Enforcement-Only Way

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 565 words


Add Massachusetts to the groundswell of states and localities opposing President
Obama's misconceived and failing immigration dragnet.

Gov. Deval Patrick announced on Monday that his state would not participate in
Secure Communities, the fingerprint-sharing program that the Obama
administration wants to impose nationwide by 2013. Gov. Andrew Cuomo halted New
York's involvement last week. Gov. Pat Quinn of Illinois rejected it last month.
They join a long list of elected officials, Congress members and law-enforcement
professionals who want nothing to do with the program for the simple reason that
it does more harm than good.

The program sends the fingerprints of every person booked by state or local
police to federal databases to be checked for immigration violations. It was
supposed to focus on dangerous felons. But it catches mostly noncriminals and
minor offenders, as New York said, ''compromising public safety by deterring
witnesses to crime and others from working with law enforcement.''

For years Mr. Obama, like George W. Bush before him, has relentlessly pushed
forward with immigration enforcement schemes while failing to give any relief to
millions desperate to shed their illegal status.

Real reform requires a comprehensive strategy: stricter enforcement plus
legalization for the millions whom it would be foolish to uproot from our
society and economy. As Mr. Obama has driven deportations to record levels, he
has gotten no closer to fixing a failed system. But he has made Republican
hard-liners happy by bolstering the noxious argument that all undocumented
immigrants are mere criminals, deportees-in-waiting.

This is a failure of decency and good sense. It merely punishes and does nothing
to actually come to grips with the problem of illegal immigration. Resistance
has mostly been heard at the ground level, from immigrants and advocates who say
families are being split apart, workers frightened and exploited, the American
dream dishonored. So it's good to hear powerful Democrats -- Mr. Obama's friends
and allies from large states -- telling him that with Secure Communities he has
gone way overboard.

What these states' actions mean, practically speaking, is unclear. States like
New York signed contracts with the Department of Homeland Security to enter
Secure Communities, and now the administration insists that they must
participate. If they send suspects' fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of
Investigation for criminal checks -- as states must and will continue to do
routinely -- then the F.B.I. will share that data with the Department of
Homeland Security. There is no way to opt out.

We'll see about that. The idea that the federal government can commandeer
states' resources for its enforcement schemes seems ripe for legal challenge.
And it's wrong to make state and local police departments the gatekeepers of
immigration enforcement. It should not be up to local cops to drive federal
policy by deciding which neighborhoods and people are the focus of their
crackdowns.

We welcome the votes of no-confidence in Secure Communities. The message is
clear and growing louder: Mr. Obama and the homeland security secretary, Janet
Napolitano, need to try something else. That something else is real immigration
reform that combines a path to legality with necessary measures to secure our
borders and deport real criminals who are here illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 11, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words


An article on Thursday about the start of a federal campaign against fraudulent
immigration lawyers misidentified the New York prosecutors who handled the case
against Wilmer Melendez Rivera, who was convicted of posing as an immigration
lawyer. They were from the Manhattan District Attorney's office, not New York
State.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Separate Bills Focus on Two Pieces of Immigration Puzzle

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 831 words


WASHINGTON -- For many lawmakers in Congress, the immigration issue has become
too hot to touch, especially with presidential campaigns starting up and voters,
burdened with persistent unemployment, in a volatile mood. But competing bills
introduced this week, one by Republicans and another by Democrats, show small
but consequential steps on immigration that leaders on both sides think they
might accomplish in coming months, before electoral politics overwhelm the
debate.

On Tuesday, Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, the Republican chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, introduced a bill that would require all employers
nationwide to use a federal electronic system, known as E-Verify, to confirm the
employment eligibility of new hires. Mr. Smith's bill had only Republican
sponsors; a similar proposal was offered the same day in the Senate by Charles
E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.

Also on Tuesday, Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, the highest-ranking
Democrat on the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration, introduced a bill
that would expand the number of permanent-resident documents, known as green
cards, for foreign students graduating in math and sciences from top research
universities. Ms. Lofgren's bill, which had only Democratic sponsors, would also
create new types of green cards for immigrant entrepreneurs who start businesses
with $500,000 in backing from American investors, and for foreigners who create
businesses with their own resources that employ at least 10 American workers.

The measures were a sign that lawmakers here are skeptical that President Obama
can reach his goal of passing anytime soon a broad immigration overhaul, which
would include giving legal status to millions of illegal immigrants. In a speech
last month in El Paso, Mr. Obama insisted that he wanted just such a package.

But legislators in both parties are looking to break out pieces of the puzzle,
to avoid a caustic debate on proposals to legalize illegal immigrants that would
most likely fail in the Republican-controlled House.

Summing up the strategy, Edward Alden, a fellow at the Council on Foreign
Relations who follows immigration policy, said: ''We are stuck in this position
that unless we solve everything, we can't do anything. So let's try something on
a small scale.''

Both of the new bills focus on businesses, with contrasting approaches to the
same goal of creating jobs for Americans.

''Despite record unemployment, seven million people work in the U.S.
illegally,'' Mr. Smith said Wednesday at a hearing on his proposal. ''These jobs
should go to legal workers.''

Mr. Smith's bill would eventually require every worker in the country who
applies for a job -- not just immigrants -- to be checked through E-Verify. The
largest businesses would be required to use the system within six months. Mr.
Smith left a large exception for agricultural employers, who would not have to
use the system for three years.

The bill was immediately assailed by immigrant advocate organizations and
unions.

''Main Street businesses and key agriculture and tourism industries know the
economic pain this type of legislation can inflict,'' said Eliseo Medina, the
international secretary-treasurer of the Service Employees International Union.
''They know the government database does not work and is too costly for
businesses, and for taxpayers who will lose billions of dollars in revenues when
disqualified workers go off the tax rolls and into an underground cash
economy.''

But Mr. Smith's proposal picked up some new support, as national associations of
home builders, restaurants and human resources managers voiced tentative
approval. Leaders of the business groups said they preferred one federal worker
verification system to the confusing patchwork of laws that states have adopted
or considered in recent years.

Ms. Lofgren offered letters of support for her proposal from the nation's
biggest technology employers, including Intel, Oracle and Texas Instruments.
That bill includes a provision to give temporary visas to immigrant college
students brought by their parents to the United States illegally when they were
children.

While pieces of a bargain might be on the table, until now businesses have been
shy about stepping forward to press their immigration interests too publicly.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, an independent, said Wednesday that he
would try to bridge the divide between the parties.

Mr. Bloomberg, in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations, said the United
States was committing ''national suicide'' if it failed to make its immigration
system more friendly to foreign entrepreneurs and highly skilled workers.
Congress ''can use the stalemate as a wedge issue to score political points in
2012,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''Or, they can come together and adopt changes to
our visa system that will spur new companies, strengthen existing ones, and help
create jobs for the 13.9 million Americans who are unemployed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 16, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Untold Stories of How Everyone Got Here

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 276 words


Border-guarding Minutemen and immigrant-pummeling politicians should get a grip
on this country's history at the Ellis Island Immigration Museum in New York
Harbor. Exhibits are planned to tell the full story of the teeming masses,
including African slaves, displaced Indians, modern globetrotters and
Know-Nothing nativists.

''There's an old saying among immigrant groups: America beckons, but Americans
repel,'' said Alan Kraut, chairman of the museum's history committee. He
promised that the updating will be candid and inspiring as it presents so much
that's been overlooked in the continuous restocking of America.

Ellis Island operated from 1892 to 1954, and an estimated 40 percent of today's
Americans are descended from foreigners who passed through its halls. Until now,
its museum has mainly told the stories of European immigrant groups. The new
Peopling of America Center is scheduled to open this fall with the mission to be
the one place in the nation where all immigrants can go to search their story
roots.

Scholars and exhibit designers have spent three years vetting American history
for the missing tales. The new displays will show the smallest villages and
largest cities changing with immigration but also the larger economic and
political pressures driving the myriad decisions to move on. The nation's
zigzagging immigration laws, the virulent anti-immigrant prejudices and
newcomers' resilience will all be depicted through family histories.

Ideally, the museum will blur the narrative ''they'' -- the immigrants -- with
the ''we'' who visit, as in Mr. Kraut's bracing summary: ''Without their talent
and muscle, where would we be?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 19, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1055 words


International

VIDEO ACTIVISTS WITNESS

SYRIA'S UPRISING

There have been few outside witnesses to the three-month popular uprising
against the Assad family's 40-year rule of Syria, which has unfolded behind a
rolling internet blackout and a ban on foreign journalists. The world has
depended largely on online videos of both protests and the government's violent
crackdown, which activists say has left more than 10,000 jailed and over 1,300
dead. PAGE 11

EXPRESSING WARINESS ON WAR

Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates, as he prepared to depart the government for
the second time, said in an interview that the human costs of the wars in Iraq
and Afghanistan had made him far more wary about unleashing the might of the
American armed forces. PAGE 12

CANVASES OF IRAQ'S PAIN

A new generation of Iraqi artists, one molded by bloodshed and occupation, is
finding its voice in a place reshaped by eight years of war. PAGE 6

A FORUM ON CHILD ABUSE

Bishops and the leaders of religious orders around the world have been invited
to a symposium at Rome's Jesuit University in February 2012 about how to prevent
and respond to abuse of children by the clergy. PAGE 14

National

IMMIGRATION LAW'S SPONSOR

FACES A RECALL IN ARIZONA

Russell Pearce, the president of the Arizona Senate, was the sponsor of Senate
Bill 1070, which would have police officers question people about their
immigration status. Now, so many critics in his suburban district have signed a
recall petition that he will be forced to defend himself in a special election.
PAGE 16

NEW TACK FOR POLITICAL WIVES

For years, a parade of political wives stood dutifully by their errant husbands
when they acknowledged their misdeeds. But in the past two years, that script
has been tossed aside. From Jenny Sanford in 2009 to Huma Abedin, the wife of
Anthony D. Weiner, last week, wronged political wives have taken a different
approach. Political Memo. PAGE 15

Metropolitan

DAYS FOR LITTLE LEAGUE

AND DIM SUM

John C. Liu New York City's feisty and ambitious comptroller and the first
Asian-American to win a major elective office in the city, has at times been at
odds with the Bloomberg administration. But on Sundays, Mr. Liu focuses on
Little League and maybe a dim sum outing in Flushing, Queens, where he arrived
from Taiwan at age 5. Sunday Routine. PAGE 2

Sports

METAL BATS ALTER

COLLEGE BASEBALL

The N.C.A.A.'s new testing standard that requires metal bats to perform more
like wood -- meant to protect pitchers and reduce the proliferation of offense
-- has altered the game as drastically as the introduction of aluminum bats in
1974. Home runs, runs and batting averages are down across all three N.C.A.A.
divisions this year. PAGE 1

TEAM'S FOUNDER GETS A TITLE

Mark Cuban may be the loud and flamboyant face of the Dallas Mavericks, but it
was Don Carter, 77, who brought the team to what had been a basketball backwater
and who, from his courtside seat all these years, has been its soul. PAGE 1

Obituaries

MIETEK PEMPER, 91

He was a Jewish prisoner in the Plaszow concentration camp just south of Krakow,
Poland, who was forced to be the secretary of a Nazi official. His acts of
defiance included typing the names on what became known as Schindler's List, a
roster of labor camp workers who were supposedly essential to the German war
effort and who were thus spared almost certain extermination. PAGE 23

Sunday Business

LESSONS IN LONGEVITY,

TAUGHT BY I.B.M.

Evolving beyond the successes of the past can be a daunting proposition. As
I.B.M. does just that, the question rises of what giants like Apple, Microsoft
and Google can learn from I.B.M.'s experience. Page 1

GRAPHICS FOR BOAT RACES

In August, a two-year series of regattas will have a feature intended to
demystify the sport. Live footage will be superimposed with graphics --
including lines that show who is ahead or behind in the welter of foam and
hulls, and tags that identify yachts as they race to coveted positions. Page 3

ASSESSING YOUR SKILLS

Before changing careers, experts say, ask yourself some basic questions. For
example, are your current skills obsolete, or will they soon be back in demand?
Page 8

Automobiles

SEVERAL JEEP MODELS

SAID TO BE PRONE TO FIRES

Millions of Jeep Grand Cherokees from the 1993 through 2004 model years are
particularly susceptible to fires when struck from behind and should be
recalled, an auto safety group says. Sports, Page 9

Arts & Leisure

THE SANGUINE STAR

OF AN EVOLVING SERIES

As HBO's showcase of supernatural desire, ''True Blood,'' enters its fourth
season, it has grown into a crucial part of the network's lineup, and Anna
Paquin's Sookie has matured along with it. Page 1

Book Review

TEEN IDOLS AND IDLE TEENS,

WRITTEN WITHOUT RESERVE

The ambition of ''Ten Thousand Saints,'' the debut novel by Eleanor Henderson,
is beautiful, writes Stacey D'Erasmo. In nearly 400 pages, Ms. Henderson does
not hold back once writing pure life into every moment and every scene. Page 1

Magazine

LOOKING FOR THE GOOD LIFE,

WHILE LIVING IN THE CLOSET

As a young gay man, Michael Glatze seemed very happy with who he was. Then he
changed his mind. Page 36

THE CONQUERING STORYTELLER

How 26-year-old Amanda Hocking solved the publishing business all by herself.
Page 26

Style

SEEN AS FREEING NO LONGER,

DIVORCE LOSES ITS GROOVE

Among college-educated Americans, divorce rates are falling. For women in that
group, divorce is now seen as a failure, as it was before the 1970s. Page 1

Editorial

F.B.I.'S NEW SURVEILLANCE

THREATENS BASIC FREEDOMS

The bureau's overreaching new rules for surveillance threaten the basic rights
of Americans. Week in Review, Page 7

SIGNS OF LIFE IN SENATE

Democrats, silent for months, are starting to speak up on Medicaid and job
creation. Week in Review, Page 7

COURT DISRESPECTS FATHERS

In a decision based on an old stereotype that fathers are less committed
parents, the court let discrimination against them stand last week. Week in
Review, Page 7

Op-Ed

MAUREEN DOWD

It's the archbishop versus the governor in the debate over same-sex marriage in
New York. Week in Review, Page 8

NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

The Arab Spring continues to blossom in Morocco, despite a few thunderstorms.
Here's hoping that King Mohammed makes good on promises for reforms. Week in
Review, Page 9

THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

Let's consider a different approach to a two-state solution for Israel and the
Palestinians. Week in Review, Page 9

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 20, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Too Little, Too Late

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 311 words


With many local governments and states insisting they want out, the Obama
administration says it is working to improve Secure Communities, its troubled
data-sharing program that pushes local police to the front lines of immigration
enforcement.

New York, Illinois and Massachusetts are among the states that have said they
don't want fingerprints of every person arrested to be run through immigration
databases. They say Secure Communities catches too many noncriminals and
undermines public safety by making crime witnesses and victims fear the police.

The administration still insists the program is mandatory and will roll out
nationwide by 2013. It isn't budging on its refusal to let localities opt out.
On Friday, John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
announced a grab bag of changes -- an implicit acknowledgment of the growing
uproar.

He said he was creating an advisory committee to suggest improvements and
issuing memos to guide immigration officers and lawyers on using discretion
''where appropriate'' to make sure the focus is on dangerous criminals rather
than on the traffic violators and misdemeanor offenders who end up in the Secure
Communities dragnet in disproportionate numbers.

He said his agency would look closely at arrest data for signs of racial
profiling and other discriminatory practices and take action where necessary. We
welcome the news that ICE lawyers will be freer to drop deportation cases
against immigrants who pose no conceivable threat, the very people the
administration has long promised, emptily, to put on a path to citizenship.

If Mr. Morton really wants advice from experts, he already has the testimony of
police chiefs and sheriffs, leaders of immigrant communities and a growing
number of state politicians. They say the best thing that can be done with
Secure Communities is to shut it down.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 21, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Sue Over Loss of Green Cards

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 97 words


A class-action lawsuit was filed against the State Department in federal court
in Washington by immigrants from more than 20 countries who say officials
mishandled the annual lottery of permanent resident visas. After notifying more
than 20,000 foreigners this year that they had won the permanent visas, known as
green cards, the State Department canceled them, saying a computer glitch had
tainted the process. The immigrants, who are all living legally in the United
States, had waited years for the green cards and were bitterly disappointed to
have them granted and then taken away.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 23, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 855 words


International

2 UNUSUAL TRAITS BLENDED

IN GERMAN E. COLI STRAIN

The E. coli bacteria that killed dozens of people in Germany over the last month
have a highly unusual combination of two traits and that may be what made the
outbreak among the deadliest in recent history, scientists said. PAGE A5

MAKESHIFT CLINICS STRAINED

The more than 10,000 Syrian refugees in Turkey receive medical care from the
Turkish Red Crescent, a local version of the Red Cross. Life is far more
difficult for the thousands who remain in Syria and seek shelter in forests and
in fruit orchards, and activists say there is an acute need for medical care in
the makeshift refugee camps scattered on the Syrian side of the border with
Turkey. PAGE A11

National

ASPIRING IMMIGRANTS

FILE SUIT OVER VISA LOTTERY

The State Department posted notices in the first days of May advising more than
22,000 foreigners worldwide that they had won a chance to become permanent
residents of the United States. But on May 13 the department posted another
notice canceling the lottery results and voiding the winners, citing a
''computer programming problem.'' The aspiring immigrants have filed a class
action lawsuit in federal court, seeking to force the State Department to return
to the first lottery results and restore their chance at the visas. PAGE A12

GORE CRITICIZES OBAMA

Former Vice President Al Gore sharply criticized President Obama as lacking
leadership on climate change in a magazine essay published online, saying his
policies had been little more effective than those of President George W. Bush.
PAGE A14

New York

ON TAXI PLAN, FATHER'S ROLE MAY CREATE CONFLICT

The New York taxi industry has struggled to find support in Albany as it tries
to block a Bloomberg administration plan that would make it easier for livery
cabs to pick up passengers outside crowded parts of Manhattan. But the industry
can count one potentially powerful ally in the Capitol: Mario M. Cuomo, Gov.
Andrew M. Cuomo's father, and a longtime board member at Medallion Financial,
one of the industry's most powerful companies. PAGE A22

Business

GREECE'S FINANCE MINISTER FACES DAUNTING TASK

Evangelos Venizelos, the man Prime Minister George A. Papandreou of Greece chose
last week to be his new finance chief, was not the prime minister's first
choice. But more than any other Greek politician, Mr. Venizelos, a political
rival of Mr. Papandreou, is now responsible for convincing Europe and investors
that Greece is capable of reform and making good on its financial obligations.
PAGE B1

NEW DEAL FROM FOURSQUARE

Foursquare popularized the idea of ''checking in,'' or using a cellphone
application to tell friends that you are at a particular restaurant, bar or
park. And Foursquare seems to be holding its ground, unveiling its largest
partnership to date: a national deal with American Express to offer discounts to
cardholders when they check in at certain shops and restaurants. PAGE B1

DUTCH ADOPT NEUTRALITY LAW

The Netherlands became the first country in Europe, and only the second in the
world, to enshrine the concept of network neutrality into law by banning its
mobile telephone operators from blocking or charging consumers extra for using
Internet-based communications. PAGE B3

Sports

ADJUSTING TO A NEW HOME

FOR COLLEGE WORLD SERIES

TD Ameritrade Park is the bright new home of the College World Series for the
next 25 years. The $131 million ballpark in Omaha alleviated most of the
shortcomings of its predecessor, Rosenblatt Stadium. But detractors say that
leaving Rosenblatt cost the tournament the carnival feel that made it a beloved
event, especially for out-of-state fans who came whether or not their team
qualified. PAGE B13

Arts

POLITICAL PLOTLINES

IN LIBERAL DOSES

''Knife Fight'' joins two other high-profile Hollywood projects that look at the
dark underbelly of politicians and their handlers. And in what may be a rare
confluence for Hollywood and politics, the films are focused on Democrats who
are wrestling with questions of conduct, character and pragmatic choices
.Writers on two of the projects have worked in Democratic politics. PAGE B13

RAPPER FINDS HIS RHYTHM

Pitbull's sixth album, ''Planet Pit,'' completes his long transformation from
crunk-era curio to dance-rap star. It suggests the full-fledged arrival of a new
strain of hip-house, the microgenre that spun off hip-hop in the late 1980s. Jon
Caramanica, Critic's Notebook. PAGE C1

Home

NEED A SIX-PACK?

HIT THE BASEMENT

Home brewing, which was rendered illegal by Prohibition and not legalized again
until 1979, is enjoying a resurgence. The spike in popularity has been aided by
the rise of social clubs, books and competitions geared to home brewers, as well
as by the success of microbreweries. PAGE D1

Thursday Styles

MONACO PREPARES

FOR A ROYAL WEDDING

For four years, Charlene Wittstock lived mostly in the shadows, waiting for
Prince Albert II of Monaco to propose. Soon Ms. Wittstock, a South African
national swimming champion who competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics, will be
walking down the aisle in this summer's ''other'' royal wedding. PAGE E1

OP-ED

Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A21

Ta-Nehisi Coates PAGE A21

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 1, 2011 Friday
                                National Edition

Tour Draws Immigrants To Honor Their Saint

BYLINE: By GRACE RUBENSTEIN.

grace@gracerubenstein.com

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; THE BAY CITIZEN; Pg. 17A

LENGTH: 531 words


Last Friday night, the faithful and the curious lined up for a special mass at
St. Anthony Parish in Oakland. On a pedestal up front stood the object of their
affection: a 4-foot-5 statue of a blue-eyed Mexican priest.

That priest is Toribio Romo, the patron saint of immigrants who cross the
Mexican border.

Some 200 worshipers snapped cellphone photos of St. Toribio and reached up to
touch a small glass pane embedded in his chest. Behind the glass was a shard of
brown bone, a piece of the saint's left ankle.

The statue was lent to the Diocese of Oakland by St. Toribio's home church in
the Mexican state of Jalisco. Its three-week tour of Northern California ends
Sunday. Organizers estimate that 50,000 people will have viewed the statue
during the tour.

''We came to thank Santo Toribio for all he has done for us,'' said Lucia
Castillo of Oakland, who came to view the bone with her husband and their three
sons. Ms. Castillo credited the saint with preventing United States Border
Patrol agents from spotting her as she hid behind a mesquite tree after crossing
the border in 1998.

Toribio Romo, born in 1900, earned fame by ministering during the Cristero
Rebellion, the 1920s uprising against the Mexican government's crackdown on the
Roman Catholic Church. He was killed by federal troops in 1928. In 2000, he was
among 25 saints and martyrs from the Cristero who were canonized by Pope John
Paul II.

The legend of Father Romo's exploits on behalf of immigrants has grown over the
decades. As the story goes, a lost and dehydrated immigrant was ushered to
safety by a fair-skinned stranger matching Father Romo's description. Soon,
tales mounted of the gentle priest who would materialize to assist immigrants in
moments of desperation.

To believers, no journey -- even the thorny path to immigration reform -- is
beyond St. Toribio's powers. Adolfo Padilla, an Oakland seminarian who
previously studied in the Diocese of San Juan de los Lagos, Father Romo's home
diocese in Jalisco, said he had arranged to bring the statue to the Bay Area
''to give the people a hope, an encouragement about immigration reform, a
feeling that all is not lost.''

One of every five Alameda County residents is Latino, according to the latest
census. Nearly half of the Oakland Diocese's 84 parishes hold services in
Spanish.

Outside St. Anthony, the souvenir table was busy. The Castillos examined bumper
stickers and T-shirts bearing St. Toribio's likeness. Ms. Castillo's husband,
Pedro, picked out a rosary.

Mr. Castillo had already reached the Bay Area when his wife crossed the border
to join him in 1998, slipping under the metal fence in Arizona with their infant
son. Spotting two white vans patrolling the dusty landscape, she crouched behind
a mesquite tree, praying to Toribio and, as she recalled, ''all the saints I
could think of.''

The vans passed no more than 10 feet away, she said.

The Castillos thank St. Toribio for the green card that Mr. Castillo now
possesses and for his job washing dishes at a San Francisco hotel. They keep a
framed photo of the saint in their apartment.

Their next request of him: An immigrant visa for Ms. Castillo. Her application
has been pending since 2005.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  A statue of Santo Toribio Romo has toured the Bay Area,
including a special Mass on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE BAY
CITIZEN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Father Discussed Adoption For Obama, Records Show

BYLINE: By SEAN COLLINS WALSH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 339 words


WASHINGTON -- Before Barack Obama was born, his parents may have considered
putting him up for adoption, according to documents obtained by a reporter for
The Boston Globe.

Mr. Obama's father, Barack Hussein Obama Sr., told immigration officials that
Ann Dunham, whom he had recently married, would make ''arrangements with the
Salvation Army to give the baby away,'' one document said.

The revelation came from 1961 immigration forms obtained through a Freedom of
Information Act request by Sally Jacobs, a reporter who has written a book
called ''The Other Barack, The Bold and Reckless Life of President Obama's
Father.'' An excerpt from the book, which will be released next week, appeared
Thursday in The Globe.

President Obama's father, then a student at the University of Hawaii, was
questioned about his marital status by immigration officials when he applied for
an extension of his visa, which he had to do each year.

An immigration official had become leery of his ''playboy ways'' and thought Mr.
Obama might have more than one wife, which can be grounds for deportation. Mr.
Obama said at the time -- falsely -- that he had divorced his Kenyan wife, with
whom he had two children.

The excerpt of the book says it is unclear whether Mr. Obama intended to have
his son adopted or if he was fabricating the story to appease immigration
officials. Mr. Obama often gave contradictory answers on the forms, sometimes
leaving questions about his marital status blank.

Additionally, Ms. Dunham, who was also studying at the University of Hawaii,
talked optimistically at the time about a future with her new husband and their
child, according to an interview with a family member of Ms. Dunham.

Robert Gibbs, the former White House press secretary, who was also interviewed
by Ms. Jacobs, said that the president did not know about the adoption question
before the Freedom of Information Act request and that he did not believe his
mother ever seriously considered it.

The White House did not respond to a request for comment on Thursday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO:  Barack Obama with his mother, Ann Dunham. She talked of a
future with their child. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN, VIA A.P.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 8, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Removal of Priest's Cases Exposes Deep Holes in Immigration Courts

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1369 words


For more than three decades, Robert Vitaglione never turned down a client,
representing thousands of immigrants in New York's overburdened federal
immigration courts. But he is not a lawyer. He is a Roman Catholic priest
without formal legal training or supervision -- and it showed.

Disheveled and disorganized, Father Vitaglione sometimes jeopardized cases with
his erratic behavior, according to a federal finding. His legal briefs included
a blizzard of fonts and asides -- ''Deportation = Death'' was written in bold in
one.

In May, court administrators had enough, barring Father Vitaglione from handling
cases. But if anything, that only deepened the disarray. Lawyers and advocates
had to hold emergency meetings to figure out how to pick up his pending cases,
clean up bungled ones, and find representation for untold immigrants.

Father Vitaglione's central role in the immigration courts, as well as the
repercussions from his recent banishment, point to the deep dysfunction in the
system in New York and across the country.

Thousands of poor immigrants swamp the system every month in the city alone,
challenging deportation orders or other administrative actions, but they are not
entitled to free legal representation, as they are in criminal courts. As a
result, federal immigration judges, eager for respondents to have any sort of
help, overlook problems with volunteers like Father Vitaglione.

The immigration courts have long allowed nonlawyers to represent clients if they
can show some proficiency in the law. New York has dozens of these so-called
accredited representatives. But none had the caseload or recognition of Father
Vitaglione, who was known inside the courthouses as Father Bob. He had more
clients than the Legal Aid Society's entire immigration unit.

Viewed as a hero in religious circles and a menace in legal ones, Father
Vitaglione, 63, accepted no fees. In an interview in the basement of his parish
at Sacred Heart Church in Fort Greene, near the Brooklyn Navy Yard, he admitted
to becoming overwhelmed, but defended his work as an almost spiritual calling.

''We have more lawyers than we have fire hydrants in this city and no one will
help,'' he said.

He called immigrants facing deportation ''the lepers of today.''

''If Jesus was here,'' Father Vitaglione said, ''these are the people he'd be
sitting down with.''

The stakes could hardly be higher. Immigrants who have spent years in the United
States often consider deportation a worse punishment than a jail sentence.

But many immigrants have to represent themselves, even if they do not speak
English or understand the law. In New York City in 2009, 60 percent of detained
immigrants did not have counsel; neither did 27 percent of nondetained
immigrants who appeared in immigration court, according to government
statistics.

Rulings often hinge on representation in these courts, where defendants accused
of immigration violations, from overstaying a visa to committing a violent
crime, face government lawyers and the threat of deportation. Immigrants without
lawyers are more than five times as likely to lose their cases, legal advocates
found in a report released in May.

Immigrants who represent themselves also slow down a system with no room for
slack. Each judge's docket can reach 2,000 cases, and immigrants without lawyers
are left with only judges to explain technicalities, help with paperwork and
assume some responsibilities of counsel.

That's where Father Vitaglione came in.

''He helped part of the system and the system kept rolling,'' said Stan Weber,
an immigration lawyer who said he admired Father Vitaglione. ''It comes down to
everything being overwhelmed and the system being broken and he didn't realize
he can't do this anymore.''

But others said Father Vitaglione's caseload papered over a crisis in
representation.

''He was allowing the court system to operate as if people were being
represented when they really were not,'' said Amy Meselson, an immigration
lawyer with the Legal Aid Society. ''It was really pernicious because it was
really masking a problem.''

Few question Father Vitaglione's dedication or his compassion for immigrants'
plights. On a recent evening in Brooklyn, he and two associates met individually
with roughly 40 immigrants -- Albanian, Jamaican, Peruvian, Mexican -- filling
out papers and offering advice until well after dark.

He has helped countless immigrants over the years in matters large and small. He
filled out the forms that Juan Mego Suarez, a native of Peru, needed to renew
his green card last year. ''Everything was fixed, thanks to the father,'' said
Mr. Suarez, 49.

Father Vitaglione received an award from the Justice Department in 1995 for his
''unique role and hard work'' that made him ''invaluable to the immigration
judges in New York.''

He began immigration work in the 1970s, when his Brooklyn parishioners
approached him for assistance even though, initially, he knew little about
immigration.

He studied the law and became an ''accredited representative,'' meaning he could
provide counsel in immigration court without passing the bar. He began picking
up cases by the dozens, then the hundreds.

Some judges even had special ''Father Bob Days'' on their calendar when they
would schedule the most desperate cases for him to pick up.

''Their mission was accomplished -- now they had this person on the docket with
representation,'' Mr. Weber said. ''They clearly were a factor in him becoming
overwhelmed.''

Father Vitaglione was listed as the representative in 761 working cases in June
2010, according to the Board of Immigration Appeals, a workload exponentially
higher than what even highly trained lawyers say they could manage.

''We're like the Babylonian prostitutes,'' he said. ''We never say no.''

But as his client list grew, his work slipped. The Legal Aid Society said it
filed eight complaints against him over the past five years. The Department of
Homeland Security determined last year that he had mishandled at least six
cases.

''We cannot excuse his failings as an accredited representative, or overlook the
impact his performance has had on the low-income and indigent aliens who have
relied upon his services,'' the federal Board of Immigration Appeals wrote in
its May 6 decision barring him from court. The board determined that Father
Vitaglione had failed to appear or came unprepared to hearings in 221 cases.

Last year, according to the findings, he failed to inform a client of her
hearing date, and, in her absence, the court ordered her deported.

In a case in 2009, he never showed up for a hearing, and his client, a Dominican
man, was ordered deported. In another case cited by the Board of Immigration
Appeals, he filed an appeal brief almost a year after the board had rendered a
final decision. The scarcity of other lawyers willing to represent poor
immigrants, the board wrote in May, ''does not relieve Rev. Vitaglione of his
responsibility to provide competent representation in each case he accepts.''

The decision echoed across the state. The Legal Aid Society said it had caused a
sharp rise in immigrants needing representation.

Still, some lawyers said they viewed the crisis as an opportunity to address
inadequate legal representation in the courts.

''Now everyone has to wake up and see how do we fix this,'' said JoJo Annobil,
head of the Legal Aid Society's immigration law unit.

But extricating Father Vitaglione from immigration court will not be easy. His
organization, the Committee of Our Lady of Loreto for Hispanic Immigration
Affairs, has kept its accreditation and is still listed on the Department of
Justice's directory of free legal representatives.

On a recent morning, less than two months after the board ruling, Father
Vitaglione was back at immigration court in his clerical collar, entering the
special door reserved for lawyers. There were 28 cases on the calendar that day,
and his network represented half of them.

He was mistakenly listed as the representative for one, his nonprofit
organization was down for another, and Tim McCarthy, a lawyer with whom he works
in Brooklyn, was listed for 12 more.

''I can't represent anyone,'' Father Vitaglione said, ''but that doesn't mean I
can't supervise.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Robert Vitaglione in his Brooklyn office while people,
below, wait to talk to him. After years of helping immigrants and amassing
complaints, he was barred from representing people in immigration court.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MYLAN CANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 12, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum Ploys Play Off News To Open Door

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1183 words


The man caught on the wiretap urged his immigrant client to fabricate a tragic
past if he wanted asylum in the United States. To say that he was a victim of
political repression in Albania. Or police brutality. Or even a blood feud.

''Maybe you had to leave because someone threatened to kill you,'' the man
suggested. ''Because of something that your father did to somebody else or
something to do with the land. You understand? That can be a way to get
asylum.''

Often enough, it is. A shadowy industry dedicated to asylum fraud thrives in New
York, where many of the country's asylum claims are filed. Immigrants peddle
personal accounts ripped from international headlines, con artists prey on the
newly arrived and nonlawyers offer misguided advice.

The revelation that the West African hotel housekeeper who accused Dominique
Strauss-Kahn of sexual assault apparently lied on her asylum application has
focused new attention on the use of these schemes.

The embellished stories go in and out of fashion along with the news of the day,
reflecting turmoil in nations around the globe, lawyers say.

West Africans claim genital mutilation or harm from the latest political
violence. Albanians and immigrants from other Balkan countries claim they fear
ethnic cleansing. Chinese invoke the one-child policy or persecution of
Christians, Venezuelans cite their opposition to the ruling party, and Russians
describe attacks against gay people. Iraqis and Afghans can cite fear of
retaliation by Islamic extremists.

Of course, thousands of those claims are legitimate. But each cataclysm provides
convenient cover stories for immigrants desperate to settle here for other
reasons, forcing authorities to make high-stakes decisions based on the
''demeanor, candor or responsiveness'' of the applicant. ''When there's a
problem anywhere, a horrible slaughter in Somalia, wherever, the first couple of
years of those cases are very real,'' said Andrew Johnson, an immigration lawyer
in Manhattan. ''Then the next four or five years, they just mimic those
stories.''

There is no reliable data on the pervasiveness of asylum schemes, but law
enforcement officials say they are among the most common immigration frauds, and
the hardest to detect and investigate. ''Fraud in immigration asylum is a huge
issue and a major problem,'' said Denise N. Slavin, an immigration judge in
Miami who is vice president of the National Association of Immigration Judges.

Mr. Strauss-Kahn's accuser said in her 2004 asylum bid that she was gang-raped,
and that soldiers destroyed her home, beating her and her husband, who she said
died in jail. She recently admitted to prosecutors that she had been lying.

Her lawyer, Kenneth P. Thompson, said she was desperate to leave Guinea, and had
been encouraged to exaggerate her claims. She told Manhattan prosecutors that a
man had given her a recording of the asylum story to memorize.

The accuser's immigration case is apparently not unusual.

A woman from Burkina Faso who lives in Harlem said she had recently acted as an
interpreter for a woman from another African country, Mali. The woman had
undergone genital mutilation, but told her lawyer she suffered no side effects.
In court, the interpreter said, the Malian woman changed her story.

''People would lie to stay here because they don't want to be sent back home,''
the interpreter, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because she did not
want to implicate anyone, said.

Amadou Diallo, the street vendor from Guinea who was shot 41 times by New York
police officers in 1999, came from a well-off, stable family. But he told
immigration authorities that he was from nearby Mauritania, and that his parents
had been killed in that country's conflict.

It was not true, but he was granted asylum. The scheme was revealed after his
death.

Every immigrant neighborhood has businesses that guide newcomers -- many of them
here illegally -- through the complicated process of gaining legal status.
Sometimes that means claiming asylum in immigration court, one of several ways
to receive it.

Some of them employ legitimate lawyers. Many do not.

In legal circles, these operations are sometimes called ''chop shops.'' In
Hispanic neighborhoods, they are called ''notarios,'' which handle everything
from money transfers to asylum applications. In Chinatown, clusters of legal
offices atop narrow staircases offer dubious counsel. In Harlem, one storefront
provides a range of services like shipping to West Africa, travel insurance,
translation help, tax assistance and immigration aid.

''Often, the applicant is misled by various actors with a story that is much
more compelling,'' said Claudia Slovinksy, a longtime immigration lawyer.
''Weren't they soldiers? Wasn't it a gang rape?''

Whether here legally or illegally, immigrants can apply for asylum within one
year of arriving. To qualify, they must show a well-founded fear of persecution
on account of race, religion, nationality, political opinion or membership in a
particular social group -- which could cover gays or abused women.

Immigration courts across the country granted 51 percent of asylum claims last
year, government statistics show. Such courts in New York City, which heard more
cases than in any other city, approved 76 percent, among the highest rate in the
nation.

Because many claims are based on events that occurred in countries in disarray,
with evidence hard to collect, judges have to make decisions based on intuition.

''A true refugee does not have a note from their dictator,'' said Judge Dana
Marks, president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, paraphrasing
a legal aphorism.

She said many judges erred on the side of caution. ''The mistake of granting a
fraudulent asylum case is far less disastrous than denying a genuine one,'' she
said.

The Manhattan lawyer peddling Albanian blood feuds, James Christo, who was
caught on a wiretap, is one of the few people who have been prosecuted recently
for helping immigrants commit fraud. He and his wife, Remila, were sentenced in
2009 to five years' probation in a case brought by the United States attorney's
office in Manhattan.

Stan Weber, who worked for 14 years as a government lawyer in immigration court,
said he had learned the signs of stock stories. The immigrants' words mirror the
language in the written application. The applicants do not know basic
information about their country or church. ''They sound scripted,'' he said.

Some frauds are sophisticated, with doctored documents, false identities and
fake medical records. Others are less so.

Mr. Johnson, the Manhattan immigration lawyer, said a Russian client asked for
help recently with an asylum claim that had been prepared by a lawyer in
Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, the center of the city's Russian immigrant community.

The forms said she was gay and feared persecution back home -- a new trend among
Russians claiming asylum, Mr. Johnson said.

When he began asking questions about her romantic history, she bristled.

''She just had that look on her face, and she said: 'I'm not gay at all. I don't
even like gay people,' '' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Notarios may handle everything from money transfers to
immigrants' applications for asylum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 Andrew Johnson, a lawyer, said some immigrants recycled stories of hardships.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pride Is Tinged With Sadness as a Nation Is Born

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 709 words


It was a day long awaited, but Jane Kani Edward could not bring herself to fully
embrace the moment.

For Dr. Edward, like many of the few Sudanese immigrants living in the New York
metropolitan area, July 9, the day that the Republic of South Sudan became an
independent state, carried mixed emotions. She had lost her father and three
brothers in the five-decade struggle for independence, in which millions died.

''We raise the flag; we sing the new anthem,'' said Dr. Edward, a professor at
Fordham University who first left southern Sudan in 1992 on an academic
scholarship. ''But at the same time, so many close relatives passed away during
the war. I miss them.''

Other expatriates struggled to process the image of Sudan's president, Omar
Hassan al-Bashir, being showered with ovations in Juba, where the official
separation from his nation was read aloud on Saturday. Mr. Bashir, who for years
led brutal campaigns to prevent secession, has been indicted on genocide charges
by the International Criminal Court in The Hague in connection with the
massacres in Darfur.

''It was Bashir who ended the war, and it was Bashir who signed the peace
agreement,'' said Philip Ujama, of Trenton, who emigrated from the town of Wau
in southern Sudan in 2003. ''He deserves praise for that.''

Mr. Ujama spent Saturday evening among fellow immigrants from southern Sudan,
including Dr. Edward, at Temple Beth-El in Hillsborough, N.J., which volunteered
its space for the celebration.

Northern New Jersey is home to a few pockets of southern Sudanese refugees, Dr.
Edward said. Very few live in New York City, local Sudanese groups say.
According to a census survey with an estimate for 2005-9, about 2,000
metropolitan-area residents were born in Sudan, though it is likely that only a
small fraction came from the south.

For immigrants from the north, the separation was tinged with even greater
sadness. Gouma Mahamat, an electrician in Brooklyn who emigrated from northern
Darfur, did not join his wife and five children last week on a trip to Khartoum,
the Sudanese capital, to see family and to witness the separation.

''I have friends I love in the south,'' said Mr. Mahamat, who has lived in
Kensington since 1987. ''Now they're not my countrymen.''

Speaking by phone from Khartoum, Mr. Mahamat's daughter Amal, who will be
entering the 10th grade at Edward R. Murrow High School in Midwood, recalled the
tensions surrounding the official separation last weekend.

Seldom-seen relatives bemoaned the split. Local residents instructed the family
to stay inside, with the threat of post-secession skirmishes lurking. And on
Monday, Amal marveled at a T-shirt she saw on the street that read, in white
letters against a black backdrop, ''Team North.''

Her brother, Ashraf, 10, who is entering the fifth grade at Public School 179 in
Kensington, said he felt grateful to witness history up close, despite the
family ambivalence and culture shock.

''Khartoum is nice, but it's hot and dirty, not like Brooklyn,'' he said, before
stopping to reconsider. ''Well, Brooklyn is pretty hot.''

Relatives in Khartoum also lament the separation, Ashraf added, because Sudan
has surrendered its status as the largest African country to Algeria. South
Sudan, home to about eight million people, is roughly the size of Texas.

But such labels mean little, immigrants from southern Sudan said, when weighed
against the prospect of independence, which was backed by nearly 99 percent of
voters in a referendum in January. Dr. Edward said she hoped the separation
would allow her to take her two children, ages 20 and 11, back to the land of
her birth someday.

Mr. Ujama called July 9 ''our July 4th.''

''We raised the flag, and it will never come down,'' he added.

Jane Alley, who fled the city of Kajo Keji for Paterson, N.J., in the early
1990s, said that for all the immediate obstacles -- ethnic and rebel violence,
high infant mortality rates, widespread illiteracy -- the technical distinction
between building a new nation and rebuilding an existing one sent a powerful
message.

''We've lost generations through wars,'' Ms. Alley said. ''I consider myself
quite lucky to get to see the Republic of South Sudan.''

She paused, drawing out the words anew: ''The Republic of South Sudan.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jane Kani Edward, a professor at Fordham University who left
southern Sudan in 1992, lost her father and three brothers to war. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MYLAN CANNON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 13, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Visa Delays Put Iraqis Who Aided U.S. in Fear

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Duraid Adnan contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words


BAGHDAD -- Terrorism fears in the United States are all but halting visas for
Iraqis, even those who risked their lives aiding the American war effort, making
them especially vulnerable ahead of the planned American military withdrawal.

The Obama administration has required new background checks for visa applicants,
reacting to a case in Kentucky in which two Iraqi immigrants were arrested on
suspicion of ties to an insurgent group, according to American officials in
Baghdad.

Advocates say that the administration is ignoring a directive from Congress to
draft a contingency plan to expedite visas should those Iraqis who worked for
the United States government, especially interpreters for the military, come
under increased threat after American forces are drawn down at the end of the
year.

''This is not a priority right now for anyone in the government,'' said Becca
Heller, who runs the Iraqi Refugee Assistance Project at the Urban Justice
Center in New York. ''Not enough people in the Obama administration care about
this topic.''

The flow of Iraqis to the United States this year could be the smallest since
2007, when the Bush administration was facing an uproar for not effectively
addressing the refugee crisis.

Through the first nine months of the current fiscal year, fewer than 7,000
Iraqis have been admitted to the United States. In March, just seven were
admitted on a so-called special immigrant visa -- a class established by
Congress to quickly move Iraqis in danger for having helped the American
government -- and in April, just nine. In some months last year more than 200
arrived on such visas.

The logjam has put numerous Iraqis, like the Aeisa family, in a potentially
dangerous bind.

Their story is a common one: a brother was kidnapped and tortured, and the
children were bullied in the schoolyard, accused of being spies even by the
principal.

Last month they received the phone call they thought would never come. Their
visa applications were approved, and they would soon be on their way to Arizona.

The father quit his job at Zain, a cellphone company, the children left school,
the television, furniture and air-conditioner were sold, and the remaining
belongings were packed up. The family of five took up temporary residence in a
friend's storage room.

The week before the flight, another phone call came, this time with bad news.
The departure was delayed indefinitely and without explanation.

''It hurts me even more than all the threats we received,'' said the father, who
asked to be identified only as Abu Hassan for security reasons. ''We were
expecting, 'This is it.' '' The mother, who asked to be identified as Umm
Hassan, whose brother and father worked for the American military and now live
in Arizona, said only, ''I feel sick.''

Kirk Johnson, who worked for the United States Agency for International
Development in Falluja in 2005 and then founded The List Project, a nonprofit
group that aids Iraqis who worked for American-affiliated organizations, said,
''Basically, I think where there's a way to stall the program, there's a will to
do it.''

Congress required the Pentagon and the Departments of State and Homeland
Security to draft a plan to expedite visas for the most pressing cases, should
insurgents threaten those left behind after the military leaves, and set a
deadline of May that was not met.

Meanwhile, neither the Bush nor the Obama administration has met the targets set
by Congress several years for issuing special immigrant visas.

The numbers are stark: beginning in 2008, Congress expanded the special
immigrant visa program to allot 25,000 slots over five years. After nearly four
years, the government has issued about 7,000.

Mr. Johnson said the impetus for the legislation was to avoid a huge refugee
crisis like the one after the pullout from Vietnam. In 2006, after British
forces pulled out of Basra, the southern Iraqi port city, interpreters were
rounded up and killed.

In an interview in Baghdad in May, Eric P. Schwartz, assistant secretary of
state for the Bureau of Population, Refugees and Migration, said the
administration would take care of the Iraqis who had assisted the American
forces. ''We feel that we are prepared to deal with any variety of
contingencies,'' he said.

Many thousands of Iraqis worked as interpreters for the American military,
translating not just words but the cultural folkways of a land most soldiers
knew nothing about.

Maj. Gen. Jeffrey S. Buchanan, the top military spokesman here, said of his
interpreters over the years: ''We were in a lot of hairy stuff together. So you
get a bond with these guys that's incredible.''

Like many officers, he helped an interpreter from a previous tour navigate the
bureaucracy of resettlement. Asked about the process, he said: ''He got there.
It took a long time.''

Another former interpreter of his recently saw him on Iraqi television and
contacted him. ''He got captured by Al Qaeda and was held for about seven months
and was tortured,'' General Buchanan said.

The American government never kept track of how many Iraqis it employed.
''50,000? 100,000? 120,000? Who knows?'' Mr. Johnson said .

The government also never accounted for how many Iraqi employees were killed or
wounded. But it is clear hundreds have died, and many more have been wounded. A
database kept by Titan, a contractor that provided interpreters, was leaked and
subsequently published in ProPublica, an independent, nonprofit newsroom that
produces investigative journalism. For the period between 2003 and 2008, the
document showed nearly 300 deaths of interpreters hired by Titan.

Now, with the military leaving, many of those who survived, or still work for
the Americans, feel abandoned and betrayed by a government they risked their
lives for, by serving on the front lines for a cause they believed in.

Iraq is not as violent as it once was, but Iraqis are still threatened for their
work with the Americans. Ghaith Baban, 34, works for U.S.A.I.D. and spent May in
hiding after he found a note in his garage that cited the Koran and threatened
his life for ''collaborating with the U.S.'' He first applied for resettlement
in early 2009 and is still waiting.

When the military leaves, he said, ''it's going to be the worst time for those
people who worked for the Americans.''

Meanwhile, the Aeisa family waits for its promised flight to Arizona. The family
never initially intended to leave. When relatives who worked for the American
military left for the United States, the Aeisa family thought the threats would
end. They didn't. The family's pit bull, Spider, was killed. A note was left:
''Leave, traitors. You are spies for the Americans.'' The family moved several
times.

''We would have wanted to stay,'' said Umm Hassan, the mother. ''We had a farm,
we had a normal family. All of our dreams were destroyed.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ghaith Baban, 34, who works for the United States in Iraq,
checked his car for bombs last week after he received death threats. (A1)
 The Aeisa family in Baghdad is in a potentially dangerous bind while waiting
for special immigrant visas to be approved. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR
THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 14, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Backdoor Amnesty': A Republican Chides Obama

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 229 words


To the Editor:

Your July 13 editorial ''The Forgetful Mr. Smith'' took a sentence in a letter
several colleagues and I sent to the Clinton administration out of context, so
you didn't give your readers the whole story.

This letter requested that the Immigration and Naturalization Service issue
guidelines for removal proceedings in the most sympathetic cases: those that
involve legal -- not illegal -- immigrants who committed a single minor crime
but have been law-abiding residents ever since.

While this authority is justifiable when used responsibly on a case-by-case
basis, it's clear that the Obama administration plans to abuse it. In recent
years, Congress has defeated amnesty for illegal immigrants several times, but
this has not stopped President Obama from trying to implement a backdoor
amnesty. Over the last year, the Obama administration has ignored the will of
Congress and the American people by using executive branch authority to allow
illegal immigrants to remain living and working in the United States.

That is why I have introduced a bill to prevent the Obama administration from
abusing this power. The Obama administration should not pick and choose which
laws it will enforce. Congress must put a halt to this administrative amnesty.

LAMAR SMITH Washington, July 13, 2011

The writer, a Republican from Texas, is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

4 Charged in Smuggling Egyptian Antiquities

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 412 words


Federal authorities announced on Wednesday that they had broken up an
international ring that had been smuggling Egyptian antiquities into the United
States. The Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security
Investigations department said it was the first time that a cultural property
smuggling network had been dismantled in the United States.

The charges filed in United States District Court in Brooklyn accuse three
antiquities dealers and a collector of conspiring to smuggle an Egyptian
sarcophagus and other items, and of laundering money. All of the suspects have
been arrested except for a Jordanian dealer who operates out of Dubai.

Brenton Easter, a federal agent who led the investigation, which began in 2008,
said the items seized had a market value of $2.5 million.

They include a Greco-Roman style sarcophagus, a nesting set of three sarcophagi
that dates from about 664 to 552 B.C., and limestone figures. The authorities
said these were smuggled from Dubai between October 2008 and November 2009 and
were ultimately bought by the collector, Joseph A. Lewis II of Virginia. He
bought them from a dealer, Mousa Khouli, who lives in Brooklyn and operates
Windsor Antiquities in Manhattan. The dealer, in turn, acquired them from Salem
Alshdaifat, owner of Holyland Numismatics in Bloomfield, Mich., and Ayman
Ramadan, who runs a company in Dubai called Nafertiti Eastern Sculptures
Trading, according to the authorities.

It is not clear when or how the objects were taken out of Egypt, but they have
been authenticated and carbon dated, Mr. Easter said.

Mr. Khouli allegedly provided Mr. Lewis with false provenances, stating that the
objects were part of a collection that his father had assembled in Israel in the
1960s -- a story that authorities say Mr. Lewis knew to be untrue.

Investigators also reported recovering Middle Eastern and Asian artifacts and
more than a thousand antique coins. Federal prosecutors are seeking to return
the Egyptian artifacts to Egypt, where the minister of antiquities, Zahi Hawass,
said he was grateful for the work by American officials. He said he hoped an
arrest of Mr. Ramadan, the Jordanian dealer, would provide information about how
the objects were smuggled out of Egypt.

It is important, Mr. Hawass said, ''not only to catch the four criminals, but to
know who are behind them.''

A lawyer for Mr. Khouli, Gerald L. Shargel, said, ''We're examining the facts,
and we'll be commenting shortly, but not today.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zahi Hawass, the Egyptian antiquities minister, said it was
important ''not only to catch the four criminals, but to know who are behind
them.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERALDO CASO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 15, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Births Top Immigration For Mexican-Americans

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 608 words


The fast-growing population in the United States of people of Mexican origin
increased far more in the last decade from births here than from immigration
from Mexico, according to a report on Thursday by the Pew Hispanic Center.

After ''one of the largest mass migrations in modern history'' brought more than
10 million Mexicans to live in the United States from 1970 to 2007, the Pew
report found, the number of immigrants arriving fell off sharply in recent
years.

At the same time, Mexican immigrants who settled here were a young group more
likely to be in their child-bearing years than Americans over all, and with
somewhat higher fertility rates than Americans, the center reported. From 2000
to 2010, about 7.2 million babies of Mexican origin were born in this country,
the report found, while 4.2 million new immigrants arrived from Mexico.

About 31.8 million people of Mexican origin now make up 10 percent of the United
States population, according to the report, and nearly two-thirds of all
Hispanics in the country.

''The immigration of the last decades built up a relatively young population
that is having births,'' said Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew
Hispanic Center, an author of the report. The figures, which are based on recent
census data from the United States and Mexico, include Mexican-born immigrants
living in this country and Hispanic Americans who trace their ancestry to
Mexico. The Pew Hispanic Center is a nonpartisan research organization in
Washington.

According to the report, about 39 percent of people of Mexican origin here, or
12.4 million people, are immigrants. No other country in the world has as many
of its citizens living abroad as Mexico, the Pew report found.

Of those immigrants, about 6.5 million -- or nearly 6 in 10 -- are here
illegally, according to Pew center research. About 227,500 children who were
born in this country last year had at least one parent who was an illegal
Mexican immigrant, the Pew center estimated.

In the decade from 1990 to 2000, Pew reported, the Mexican-origin population
grew about equally from 4.7 million new immigrants and 4.7 million births in
this country. But since 2006, as the recession took hold, the number of Mexicans
coming in dropped by 60 percent, to about 404,000 new immigrants in 2010. Strong
economic growth in Mexico recently may have reduced Mexicans' need to seek work
in the United States, the Pew report suggests.

The surging numbers of Mexican-Americans born in this country could shift the
focus of the acrimonious debate over immigration. Many illegal Mexican
immigrants are part of families that include American citizens.

''The key to what kind of citizens those children will become is how they are
being educated and incorporated now,'' said Robert C. Smith, professor of public
affairs at Baruch College, part of the City University of New York.

If the new generation integrates successfully, Dr. Smith said, they will do the
work and pay taxes to support a large generation of baby-boomer Americans who
are retiring.

Along with economic stagnation, the last three years brought a far-reaching
immigration crackdown here, with federal authorities deporting nearly 400,000
immigrants a year and some states adopting laws to punish illegal immigrants and
force them to leave. Yet the Pew report finds that the number of Mexican
immigrants leaving the United States declined, to 319,000 in 2010, from 450,000
in 2007.

These findings were confirmed by a study this week by the RAND Corporation, a
nonprofit research organization. It found that fewer Mexicans returned home in
2008 and 2009 than in the two years before the recession.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 22, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

11 Accused of Bilking Immigrants in Fake Nursing Schools

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 308 words


A network of fake nursing schools defrauded mostly Caribbean immigrants out of
thousands of dollars and rewarded them with sham certifications, New York's
attorney general said on Thursday.

The attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, said the five schools, in Brooklyn,
in Queens and on Long Island, bilked students of $6 million. Prosecutors say
some of the schools even coordinated with a nursing program in Jamaica to
provide false documents.

''These conspirators intentionally targeted people in pursuit of new
opportunities, lining their pockets with others' hard-earned money,'' Mr.
Schneiderman said in a statement.

Eleven people who the authorities said owned or operated the schools were
indicted on charges including grand larceny and scheming to defraud. Eight were
arrested Thursday morning; three others were being sought.

According to an indictment unsealed in State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, the
defendants falsely claimed that students who completed the programs would be
eligible to take the New York State Nursing Board examination to become
registered or licensed practical nurses.

The schools were not authorized to operate in New York as nursing programs, to
operate as branches of international institutions or to operate as tutoring
centers, prosecutors said.

Students paid $7,000 to $20,000 to attend programs at the fake nursing schools,
prosecutors said, and students also worked full time while spending up to two
years in the programs.

The attorney general's office conducted an undercover operation with the State
Education Department to investigate the schools, which operated from 2006 to
February 2011 and were located in Brooklyn and Queens, and in Floral Park and
Franklin Square in Nassau County.

The attorney general's office said four of the schools had been shut down and
the authorities were seeking to close the fifth.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 23, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Release of Sealed Records Leads to Row Over Immigrant Prosecutions

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 787 words


A dispute has erupted over the federal government's decision to prosecute at
least a half dozen illegal immigrants in New York whose status was discovered
after a state agency mistakenly provided sealed arrest records to immigration
authorities last year.

The state agency, the Division of Criminal Justice Services, later told the
authorities that the sealed information was disclosed in error and should not be
used ''for any purpose,'' court documents show.

But federal prosecutors in Manhattan, citing legal precedent, contend that New
York's law permitting the sealing of state cases does not bar the federal
government from using such records in investigations. The immigrants, all of
whom were previously deported after being convicted of crimes, would be deported
again if convicted of illegally re-entering the United States, defense lawyers
say.

One defense lawyer, Julia L. Gatto, has asked a federal judge to dismiss the
indictment against her client, Carlos Mario Franco-Lopez, a Colombian working as
a deliveryman in Queens, arguing that the government improperly ''exploited the
unlawful disclosure'' of the records to ''hunt down'' her client and initiate a
case against him.

But prosecutors responded this month that the man's rights had not been
violated, and that the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency,
having learned of the man's illegal presence in the United States, ''chose not
to close its eyes'' to his ''ongoing violation of federal law.''

''The defendant labels this government misconduct,'' the office of the United
States attorney in Manhattan, Preet Bharara, wrote. ''It is not.''

The office declined to comment, as did the immigration agency. A state
government spokesman stressed that the disclosure of the records occurred under
the administration of the previous governor, David A. Paterson.

The state official described the episode as an isolated error, and emphasized
that it was not the policy of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's administration. He added
that the agency's new leadership was unable to say immediately how many sealed
cases had been turned over to immigration officials. Details of the six cases,
though, could be pieced together through court filings and statements.

The cases involved immigrants from Colombia, Mexico, Honduras, Jamaica, Belize
and the Bahamas. Each was previously deported from the United States, as far
back as the 1990s, after being convicted of crimes that involved, for example,
drug or weapons offenses.

In the ensuing years, the men returned to the United States illegally,
prosecutors said, and were arrested in New York, in some cases for minor transit
violations. Those cases were apparently dropped or otherwise not pursued by the
authorities, and under New York law, the records were sealed.

Ms. Gatto's client, Mr. Franco-Lopez, 48, was deported to Colombia in 1998 after
he was convicted in a drug case. In 2004, he was arrested in Queens after being
accused of punching his girlfriend, documents show. She later recanted, and the
case was dropped, Ms. Gatto, a federal public defender, has said.

In court last month, a prosecutor, Rahul Mukhi, told Judge Richard J. Sullivan
that the immigration agency, known as ICE, ''originally learned about the
defendant's return to the United States through sealed arrest information that
was provided by the State of New York.

''Basically what I understand it to be is a fingerprint that was provided to
ICE, which ICE was able to check against its record of previously deported
aliens,'' Mr. Mukhi said.

''At that point, a whole slew of these fingerprints were turned over, one of
which was Mr. Franco-Lopez's,'' he continued. ''There was essentially a takedown
of several defendants.''

Another case involved a Belizean, Norman Sutherland, who was deported in 1997
after drug convictions. He was rearrested in New York on a transit violation,
which was later dropped. A prosecutor said in court that she understood that the
arrest was sealed, a transcript shows.

The prosecutor, Jessica R. Lonergan, told Judge Naomi Reice Buchwald in May that
her office, after receiving the sealed records, had questioned whether it should
have the materials.

''The United States attorney's office reached out and said, 'Are you sure that
it is O.K. that we have information about sealed arrests?' ''

At the time, the state agency said ''yes,'' Ms. Lonergan said.

In November, the state told immigration officials that the records had been
provided in error, and asking that they ''not be further disseminated or
utilized for any purpose,'' a government document shows.

Mr. Sutherland received eight months for illegal re-entry. He is almost certain
to be deported at the end of his sentence, his lawyer, Peggy M. Cross, said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 24, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Giving Voice to Immigrants, Past and Present

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 653 words


Ambivalence about immigration is as American as, well, corned beef, pizza,
knishes, black-eyed peas, empanadas -- and apple pie. Which is why ''Toward a
Better Life: America's New Immigrants in Their Own Words -- From Ellis Island to
the Present'' (Prometheus Books, $26) is a welcome reminder that the vast
majority of today's newcomers are tomorrow's productive citizens and that they
gravitate here for the same reasons their predecessors did for centuries; some
of them even become the antiforeigners of the future.

The author, Peter Morton Coan, writes that his collection of oral histories is
''a moving elegy of the human longing for freedom,'' the ''ultimate reality
show'' that provides a ''poignant meditation on the ebb and flow of the hopes
and dreams of immigrants everywhere who decided to gamble it all and come to
America in their quest for a better life.''

Until the mid-19th century, illegal immigration was virtually nonexistent
because the Golden Door was wide open, writes Barry Moreno, the National Park
Service historian at Ellis Island, in the book's foreword. Then came a flood of
Catholics, Jews, Eastern Orthodox and Chinese, which prompted mostly
Protestants, in a rare alliance with organized labor, to raise the bar. (''I die
a true American,'' were the dying words -- in ''Gangs of New York'' and in real
life -- of William Poole, known as Bill the Butcher, who was born to parents of
English descent and himself an immigrant from New Jersey, when he was killed in
Lower Manhattan in 1855 by a young Irishman.)

Next year, a Peopling of America Center, an expansion of the immigration museum
on Ellis Island, will open to reflect the full range of American immigrants,
from Native Americans to the latest arrivals. In the preface to ''Toward a
Better Life,'' Stephen A. Briganti, president of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis
Island Foundation, writes that, like this book, the new National Museum of
Immigration will go beyond traditional history to introduce ''America's new
immigrants, get a rare look inside their lives, and perhaps a glimpse of our
future.''

Allan Ishac dedicates the sixth edition of his indispensable guide, ''New York's
50 Best Places to Find Peace and Quiet'' (Universe, $14.95), to those devoted
stewards of the city ''who commit time and energy to creating wonderful new
places to find refuge, retreat and renewal.'' He adds: ''This may be the city
that never sleeps, but thanks to them, we're all able to rest for a while.''

Few people associate peace and quiet with New York City. Yet in this book (and
on his iPhone application called TranquiliCity), Mr. Ishac, a former advertising
creative director who relaxes by making balloon sculptures, has compiled an
impressive list of urban sanctuaries, some familiar and some virtually
undiscovered.

''We all love New York's energy and pace,'' he writes, ''but we also realize
that every hour of nonstop action calls for a few minutes of sanity-restoring
calm.''

The politically incorrect epithet ''Indian giver'' can be traced to the common
practice among Native Americans who often occupied land temporarily and traded
reciprocal rights to live and hunt there with other tribes. Hence the enduring
cultural misunderstanding over the 1626 ''sale'' by the Canarsee Indians of an
island -- later known as Manhattan -- which may have been actually owned by the
Mereckawiecks.

The Canarsees did, however, claim large tracts of Brooklyn, one of which was
sold by Chief Gauwane and became known as Gowanus, dominated by the canal, which
was widened from a natural creek in the 19th century to accommodate bulk cargoes
carried on the Erie Canal.

''The Glory of Brooklyn's Gowanus: Legacy, Industry, Artistry'' (Walsworth, $40)
is a spellbinding retrospective, punctuated by maps, historic prints and
photographs, in which Leslie-Arlette Boyce and Brian Merlis celebrate a gritty
neighborhood that is once again poised for a metamorphosis.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: German immigrants, 1925. (PHOTOGRAPH BY N.P.S./STATUE OF LIBERTY
NATIONAL MONUMENT)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 2, 2011 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

South Korea: Standoff at Airport As Japanese Officials Are Barred

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING ASIA; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 602 words


SEOUL, South Korea -- Airport immigration officials denied entry to three
Japanese lawmakers on Monday, thwarting their plan to travel close to a set of
tiny islands claimed by South Korea and Japan. The trio then refused for hours
to board a return flight home in the confrontation, which has laid bare
longstanding animosities between the two countries rooted in Japan's colonialist
past.

The trio -- Yoshitaka Shindo, Tomomi Inada and Masahisa Sato, all from Japan's
conservative Liberal Democratic Party -- arrived at Seoul's Gimpo International
Airport as part of their previously announced vow to visit South Korea so that
they could travel near the disputed islands, a cluster of volcanic outcroppings
called the Dokdo by South Korea and the Takeshima by Japan.

South Korea had considered the trip an attempt to reassert Japan's claim to the
islands, which are situated about halfway between the two countries. The South
Koreans had told the Japanese that the lawmakers would be denied entry.

''It's difficult to secure their safety, and their trip will have a negative
impact on bilateral relations,'' the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.

After defying the immigration officials who urged them to return home for hours,
the Japanese politicians boarded the last direct flight for Japan on Monday
evening.

''We are not terrorists,'' Mr. Shindo told reporters at the airport. ''We must
discuss this issue as there is a difference in opinion between Japan and South
Korea.''

Outside the arrival gate, members of South Korean civic groups opposed to
Japan's claims shouted for the Japanese politicians to come out. They displayed
three wooden coffins they said they would use to ''arrest'' them.

A shoving match erupted with the riot police when the activists tried to barge
into the customs zone. One activist dumped a large pot of curry sauce in
protest.

Japan ruled Korea as a colony for 35 years until Japan's defeat in World War II.
South Korea has kept a small contingent of police officers on the disputed
islands since the liberation.

The Japanese claim to the islands and the anger it provokes among Koreans
reflect the enmity and mistrust that have endured since the colonial era. The
dispute has strained the broader relationship between Japan and South Korea, the
two most important Asian allies of the United States, which has hoped to bring
them into a tighter relationship to guard against North Korea and China's
expanding military prowess in the region.

On Monday, all South Korean political parties issued statements calling the
three lawmakers political opportunists appealing to right-wing Japanese for
political benefits.

In a sign of the South Korean political sensitivities raised by the disputed
islands , Lee Jae-oh, a key aide to President Lee Myung-bak, visited the islands
on Monday to serve as a volunteer police officer. Pictures of him wearing a
combat police uniform and a helmet were circulated on South Korean Web sites.

''I will stay there until the Japanese lawmakers leave,'' Mr. Lee, a member of
the ruling conservative Grand National Party, wrote in his Twitter account. ''I
will show them clearly that there is no land here for them to set foot on.''

The latest uproar began when Korean Air conducted a test flight of its new A380
aircraft over the islands in June. In response, Japan ordered public servants to
boycott Korean Air for a month. The Japanese lawmakers announced last month that
they wanted to travel to the South Korean island of Ulleung, about 56 miles west
of the disputed islands.

.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 3, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 53 words


NEW YORK

A picture caption on Tuesday with an article about a bill to curb the
deportations of immigrants at Rikers Island who are referred to federal
authorities misstated the relationship between Amita Lopez and an immigrant who
was deported. The immigrant was Ms. Lopez's roommate and close friend -- not her
husband.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 636 words


International

ANTI-IMMIGRANT PARTY

WANES IN A SWEDISH CITY

Festering anger across Europe has fueled the rise of anti-immigrant parties,
like the nationalist Sweden Democrats party that once won support in the
struggling city of Landskrona. Now that some mainstream parties have started
co-opting some of their themes, it has played a role in pushing away some
voters. The debate has put Sweden's open and generous welfare state in jeopardy.
PAGE A4

BERLUSCONI WILL NOT RESIGN

Addressing Parliament for the first time since it passed a $70 billion austerity
package in mid-July, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy rebutted calls
for his resignation and defended the ability of his government to foster
economic growth. PAGE A6

BRITAIN'S LARGEST DRUG BUST

The British authorities said that they had seized the largest shipment of
illicit hard drugs in the country's history: more than 2,600 pounds of almost
pure cocaine, with an estimated street value of more than $490 million. The
seizure led to the arrests of six people. PAGE A6

STEP TO AVERT ATROCITIES

President Obama is expected to announce a ban on visas for people who the State
Department finds have been involved in human rights violations. He is also
expected to establish an Atrocities Prevention Board aimed at forming an
early-warning system of potential genocide. PAGE A11

National

CHRISTIAN GROUP'S RALLY

MIXES POLITICS AND FAITH

The American Family Association is thrusting itself into presidential politics
by paying for a prayer rally that Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is convening. The
rally is expected to burnish Mr. Perry's appeal to religious conservatives as he
considers entering the presidential race. PAGE A13

PENTAGON OPPOSES CUTS

The Pentagon pushed back aggressively against what senior officials warned was
the prospect of $1 trillion in military budget cuts and thousands of layoffs,
furloughs and reductions in military programs over the next decade. PAGE A14

New York

DUNAWAY SAYS SHE MOVED,

SO SHE CANNOT BE EVICTED

The actress Faye Dunaway responded indignantly to a landlord's housing court
claim that she was ineligible for a rent-stabilized Manhattan apartment because
she did not live there. PAGE A19

Business

RUSSIA BECOMES A MAGNET

FOR FAST-FOOD CHAINS

American fast food has been going global for years, but lately the industry is
finding a growing appetite for its fare in Russia. An emerging middle class and
the development of infrastructure like malls and highways in Russia have
contributed to the demand. PAGE B1

Arts

FOR A HARLEM THEATER,

HOPE AMID THE HURDLES

The ''Henry V'' production that begins in the newly renovated amphitheater at
Mount Morris Park is quintessential Classical Theater of Harlem: a gritty,
hyperactive production of a Shakespearean drama, featuring a mostly black cast.
Not as apparent are the lofty ambitions this play represents, or the hurdles it
faces, writes Felicia R. Lee. PAGE C1

Sports

THREE RECEIVERS SEEK

SECOND CHANCE WITH GIANTS

Three veterans have a chance to re-establish themselves as valuable offensive
contributors for the Giants. The three, Domenik Hixon, Devin Thomas and Michael
Clayton, are former N.F.L. starters who never reached the potential they showed
early in their careers. PAGE B15

MICKELSON COURTS FANS

Regardless of how much his chances of winning another major golf tournament wane
with each year, Phil Mickelson's popularity seems to grow by the week. PAGE B13

Thursday Styles

WHEN DIETING BECOMES

A ROLE TO PLAY

Diet companies want to incorporate celebrities in their marketing, but those who
lose weight in public can regain it in the spotlight, too. PAGE E1

Home

WHAT WE LEAVE BEHIND

IN VACANT LOTS

A vacant lot may be a lot of things: an eyesore, a dump, a symbol of American
industrial decline. But one thing it is not is vacant. PAGE D1

OP-ED

Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A23

Frank Bruni PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Identities, Preserved in Vinegar?

BYLINE: By JANE ZIEGELMAN.

Jane Ziegelman is the author of ''97 Orchard: An Edible History of Five
Immigrant Families in One New York Tenement.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 638 words


TENSIONS over immigration in Europe are flaring this summer, along with
questions about what -- whether language, dress or diet -- makes a foreigner a
citizen. Of course, these questions also have a long history in America.

One of the biggest battles over assimilation occurred a century ago in New York
City, and the battleground was food. Politicians, public health experts and
social reformers were alarmed by what they saw as immigrants' penchant for
highly seasoned cooking. They used too much garlic, onion and pepper. They ate
too many cured meats and were too generous with the condiments. Strongly
flavored food, these officials believed, led to nervous, unstable people.
Nervous, unstable people made bad Americans.

In other words, to be a good American, you had to eat like one.

No immigrant food was more reviled than the garlicky, vinegary pickle. Pungent
beyond all civilized standards, toxic to both the stomach and the psyche, the
pickle was seen as morally suspect. As Dr. Susanna Way Dodds wrote in the late
19th century, ''the spices in it are bad, the vinegar is a seething mass of
rottenness ... and the poor little innocent cucumber ... if it had very little
'character' in the beginning, must now fall into the ranks of the 'totally
depraved.' ''

Consumption of pickles was highest in Jewish neighborhoods like the Lower East
Side, where Eastern European peddlers sold them from pushcarts. Their
merchandise included whole pickled cabbages, string beans, green tomatoes,
peppers, mushrooms, eggplant, apples, watermelon and, of course, cucumbers. All
of these goods were produced within the tenements, just a few hundred yards from
the carts that dispensed them.

Their cheap price tag made pickles enormously popular with the working class.
Immigrant mothers gave them to babies to gnaw on, a kind of edible teething
ring. Every weekday, when the neighborhood schools let out for lunch, Lower East
Side children raced to the nearest pushcart or deli for a meal of penny pickles
and a handful of candy.

Downtown charity workers, visiting nurses and other well-intentioned New Yorkers
saw what children were eating and were appalled.

Pickles were seen -- by a nation on its way to Prohibition -- as a compulsion
for those too young to drink alcohol. (Some nutritional books of the period
classified pickles as a ''stimulant,'' along with coffee, tobacco and whiskey.)
The social activist John Spargo, who spent time on the Lower East Side in the
early 1900s, observed: ''For the children of the poor there seems to be some
strange fascination about pickles. One lad of 10 said that he always bought
pickles with his three cents. 'I must have pickles,' he said.''

Attempts were made to tear the children away from their pickles. As part of a
larger effort to Americanize the immigrant kitchen, culinary crusaders
established cooking classes in settlement houses so homemakers could learn to
make pies and chowders. They issued bilingual cookbooks that sang the praises of
simple American cooking.

During the 1919-20 school year, New York City's Board of Education assumed
responsibility for feeding Manhattan's students, and began to offer lunch. In
place of their pickles and halvah, immigrant children could now enjoy a proper
meal of creamed fish and applesauce.

Of course, New Yorkers didn't give up the pickle. By the mid-1920s, immigration
quotas had restricted entry to newcomers from Eastern and Southern Europe.
Americans became less worried about the ''alien hordes,'' as they were known,
and diet reform efforts subsided. Today, New Yorkers can proudly claim the
pickle as a regional specialty.

If this footnote from our culinary past can be read for a moral, it might be
this: Our powers of assimilation are greater than we know. We can speak Spanish,
eat sushi and still be American. The proof is in the pickle.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SEYMOUR CHWAST)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Family Reunited After a Rare Return From Deportation

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1121 words


A Polish woman will step off an airplane in Chicago on Monday afternoon with a
legal visa in her hand, coming back to live in the United States four years
after her deportation sundered her family, in a rare case of the return of an
immigrant who was expelled.

The woman, Janina Wasilewski, was deported in 2007 after living for 18 years in
the Chicago suburbs. Several applications she had filed to become a legal
resident became hopelessly tangled in the immigration courts and were finally
denied. She left behind her husband, Tony, also a Polish immigrant, but with his
agreement she took their son, Brian, an American citizen, who was 6.

The Wasilewski family became one of the nation's most visible examples of the
impact of deportation, just as the pace of removals has accelerated under the
Obama administration, to nearly 800,000 over the last two years. Images of the
scene when Mrs. Wasilewski left from O'Hare Airport in June 2007 were circulated
widely, with her husband gripping her and their son and weeping as he begged
them not to cry.

''I can come back again to my sweet home in Chicago,'' Mrs. Wasilewski said by
telephone last week from Nowe Miasto Lubawskie, a country town in north central
Poland where she has lived with Brian in a small apartment for the last four
years. Still disbelieving, she said she would not allow herself any joy until
she and her son were on the airplane approaching Chicago.

Her homecoming will culminate a 22-year legal fight in which Mrs. Wasilewski,
now 45, lost every battle but the last. Her case has cast light on some of the
immigration system's cul-de-sacs and severe penalties that lawyers say have
stopped hundreds of thousands of immigrants who lack legal status as Mrs.
Wasilewski did -- otherwise law-abiding parents or spouses of American citizens
-- from finding a way to get right with the law.

Under a 1996 statute, Mrs. Wasilewski had been barred, after her deportation,
from re-entering the United States for at least 10 years. The authorities
finally reversed course in July, granting a waiver that allowed her to return
with a legal permanent resident's green card.

Mrs. Wasilewski had the help of a tenacious lawyer, Royal F. Berg, and several
lawmakers, especially Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, Democrat of Illinois.
The documentary filmmaker Ruth Leitman was appalled by the family's separation
and made a film about it. Immigrant advocate groups in Illinois kept the case in
the public eye.

There has been a shift in Washington, with President Obama saying he wants to
avoid separating immigrant families and focus on deporting foreigners who have
been convicted of crimes.

But it was Mr. Wasilewski, with his unyielding determination to provide his wife
and child with a life in the United States, who ultimately won her return. In
2007, even after the country had expelled his wife, in one of the bleakest
periods of his solitary wait, he decided to become an American citizen.

''It was very hard to choose between my family and the United States,'' Mr.
Wasilewski said by telephone from his home in Schiller Park, Ill. After
traveling back to Poland to visit his wife and son, he said, ''I choose
America.''

He also wanted to erase the stain of deportation on his family. ''I did it for
three reasons for my wife,'' he said, using a grand phrase that has been his
mantra: ''Honor, dignity and justice.''

Tony and Janina Wasilewski came here separately from Poland in 1989, both
entering legally. Mr. Wasilewski eventually obtained a green card and then his
citizenship. Janina took a different course, applying for political asylum based
on her anti-Communist activism in her home country.

She and Mr. Wasilewski fell in love in Chicago, marrying in 1993 and starting a
small housecleaning business. In 1995, after years of delays during which
Communist rule ended in Poland, an immigration judge denied her asylum petition.
Mrs. Wasilewski said the lawyer representing her did not make it clear that she
had to leave the United States and could not try another avenue to gain
residence.

So in 1998, when she applied for a green card under a different law, the
immigration authorities responded by initiating her deportation.

Once Mr. Berg took the case, he did not give up, appealing all the way to the
United States Supreme Court and trying to bring Mrs. Wasilewski back after she
was forced to leave. He had to persuade the authorities to grant her a waiver by
showing that her deportation had caused extreme hardship to a close relative who
was a citizen.

The Wasilewskis' son, Brian, was born in Illinois in 2001, an American by
birthright. But under the 1996 law, the damage to an American child from a
deportation -- in this case Brian's separation from his father -- is not
recognized as hardship.

Mrs. Wasilewski's waiver requests were turned down twice. But the harrowing
decline that Mr. Wasilewski experienced after his wife and son left finally
convinced officials that the hardship standard had been met.

He had an ulcer, a heart attack and bouts of depression and started drinking
heavily. To raise cash to support his wife and son in Poland, where Mrs.
Wasilewski was never able to find a job, he gave up the family's home by selling
it at a loss.

His anguish is recorded in ''Tony and Janina's American Wedding,'' the
documentary that Ms. Leitman released in 2010, with her husband, Steve Dixon, as
a co-producer. She had been at the airport on a freelance assignment on the day
of Mrs. Wasilewski's wrenching deportation.

She followed Mr. Wasilewski for more than two years. In one scene, he says
blearily, ''I call whiskey my wife.'' In another, he wraps a power cord around
his neck, considering suicide.

Ms. Leitman took the film to church basements and public libraries, ''places
where people did not necessarily agree with us,'' she said. She is planning an
epilogue, adding the surprise happy ending, and she is hoping the film will
inspire broad changes.

So is Mr. Gutierrez, who is pressing Mr. Obama to expand the definition of
hardship to make it easier for illegal immigrants whose families include
American citizens to avoid deportation.

''What the heck is hardship if not Tony's situation?'' he asked.

Mrs. Wasilewski says her only plan after she arrives is to spend time with her
husband and son, now 10. ''The last four years were terrible for Brian,'' she
said. ''Other kids can play with daddy every day, so Brian misses his
father.''While excited, she confessed to feeling worn out. ''Twenty-two years is
a very long time, too long; something is wrong with that,'' she said.

Mr. Wasilewski said he plans to treat his son to a McDonald's burger and his
wife to a meal at a Chinese restaurant. ''She's had enough Polish food,'' he
said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: After his wife and son left for Poland, Tony Wasilewski was
determined to fight for their return and became a naturalized American citizen.
Left, at his home in the Chicago suburbs, he keeps a photograph of his son,
Brian, from his First Communion in Poland. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Law to Verify the Immigration Status of Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 262 words


To the Editor:

''Farmers Oppose G.O.P. Bill to Require Verification of Workers' Immigration
Status'' (news article, July 31) didn't tell the whole story. We could open up
millions of jobs for unemployed Americans by requiring all employers to use
E-Verify. This program quickly identifies people working illegally in the United
States and protects jobs for legal workers.

Created in 1996, E-Verify allows employers to electronically verify the work
eligibility of newly hired employees by checking their Social Security numbers.
The ''E'' in E-Verify could just as well stand for ''easy'' and ''effective.''
It takes only one to two minutes to use per new hire and easily confirms 99.5
percent of work-eligible employees.

Both businesses and the public support the expansion of E-Verify. Even though
E-Verify is not mandatory, more than 270,000 American employers use it, and an
average of 1,300 new businesses sign up each week. And according to a recent
poll, 82 percent of likely voters think that all American employers should be
required to use E-Verify.

With millions of citizens and legal workers looking for work, it is critical
that we promote policies that help grow our economy and increase job
opportunities for Americans and legal immigrants.

With a 21st-century tool already on the books, it makes sense to use it. A
federal E-Verify law is the only way to ensure that all employers hire a legal
work force.

LAMAR SMITH Washington, Aug. 3, 2011

The writer, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee,
is the lead sponsor of the E-Verify bill.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 13, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Resistance Widens to Obama Initiative on Criminal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1283 words


BOSTON -- Mayor Thomas Menino, who often invokes his heritage as the grandson of
an Italian immigrant, was one of the first local leaders in the country to
embrace a federal program intended to improve community safety by deporting
dangerous immigrant criminals.

But five years after Boston became a testing ground for the fingerprinting
program, known as Secure Communities, Mr. Menino is one of the latest local
officials to sour on it and seek to withdraw. He found that many immigrants the
program deported from Boston, though here illegally, had committed no crimes.
The mayor believed it was eroding hard-earned ties between Boston's police force
and its melting-pot mix of ethnic neighborhoods.

Last month, Mr. Menino sent a letter to the program with a blunt assessment.
''Secure Communities is negatively impacting public safety,'' he wrote, asking
how Boston could get out.

On Aug. 5, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, which runs the program, gave an
equally blunt response. Its director, John Morton, announced he was canceling
all agreements that 40 states and cities had signed to start Secure Communities.
Their assent was not legally required, he said, and he planned to move ahead
anyway to extend the program nationwide by 2013.

So Boston's mayor, together with a growing number of other state and local
officials, is stuck.

Mr. Menino's disenchantment illustrates the widening resistance from cities and
states that is troubling one of President Obama's most far-reaching programs to
toughen enforcement against illegal immigration.

Administration officials are pressing ahead, saying that information-sharing
laws passed after the Sept. 11 attacks mandate the program. The clash will gain
a higher profile this month, when a task force Mr. Morton named to recommend
fixes is to hold public hearings in a half-dozen cities.

In an interview, Mr. Menino was alternately worried and indignant about the
program.

''We need those community folks to tell us what is going on out there,'' said
the mayor, a Democrat who has run Boston for 18 years. As a result of Secure
Communities, he said, word is out in Boston that patrol officers are working
with federal agents to deport immigrants for offenses as minor as traffic
violations.

''What's happening is, we're losing the trust of the immigrant community in
Boston,'' he said.

Obama administration officials vigorously defend Secure Communities, saying it
is essential for identifying immigrant gang members and other violent criminals
arrested by the local police, so federal agents can focus on deporting them.
Officials say they are taking steps to avoid deporting foreigners detained for
immigration violations, which generally are civil, not criminal, offenses.

In a July 25 letter defending his strategy, Mr. Obama said that deportations of
convicted criminals over all increased by 70 percent in 2010 over 2008, while
the share of noncriminals among deportees was declining. ''The increase in the
proportion of criminal removals demonstrates that this strategy is having a real
impact,'' the president wrote.

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints of anyone booked into jail are
checked against the F.B.I.'s criminal databases -- long a routine police
practice -- and forwarded to the Department of Homeland Security to be run
through its databases, which record immigration violations. If an immigration
check yields a match, the immigration agency decides whether to detain the
foreigner for deportation.

After several pilot projects like the one Boston started in 2006, the agency
formally inaugurated Secure Communities in Houston in October 2008. It quickly
expanded, with little fanfare or protest, to about 1,500 counties or other
jurisdictions, about half the 3,181 jurisdictions in the nation.

But this year three governors -- including Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, as
well as Pat Quinn of Illinois and Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, all Democrats --
announced that they wanted to pull out, as did officials in Los Angeles and San
Francisco. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus and more than 200 immigrant groups
have asked Mr. Obama to suspend the program.

Mr. Morton has addressed some complaints. In June, he issued new guidelines
giving immigration agents broad discretion to halt deportations of noncriminal
illegal immigrants. He traveled to places of dissent, including Boston, working
to eliminate confusion -- which he acknowledged the immigration agency had
created -- over whether jurisdictions could opt out.

Mr. Morton set up the task force, which includes police chiefs, immigration
lawyers and representatives of immigration agent unions. Its chairman, Chuck
Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, said the
group quickly set aside Mr. Morton's assignment to deliver recommendations in 45
days. Its first hearing was this week in Dallas; others scheduled so far will be
in Los Angeles; Chicago; Arlington, Va.; and Boston.

In Boston, where about 200,000 immigrants make up one-quarter of the population,
Mr. Menino said he was originally attracted to Secure Communities because
immigrant leaders liked the sound of it. ''A person with a homicide or major
crime, immigrants don't want them in their community either,'' he said.

Problems started earlier this year when advocacy groups released immigration
data showing that more than half of 313 immigrants deported from Boston under
the program had no criminal convictions. Many had been detained in traffic
stops.

Boston's police commissioner, Edward Davis, had been a Secure Communities
supporter, because his records showed that it had removed many violent criminal
immigrants from Boston jails. But he concluded from the new figures that
immigration officials had misled him.

They specifically told us they would not be removing people with traffic
offenses,'' Mr. Davis said. ''They said they wouldn't and now they have.''

Mr. Davis said he was taken aback by the indifference of immigration officials
to his questions. ''This is a throwback to the bad old days of the federal
agencies before 9/11, when we did not have cooperation,'' he said. ''It is
really disconcerting that they are not at all concerned about our precarious
situation with immigrant communities.''

At the end of the school year, Mr. Menino held a lunch for about 30
valedictorians graduating from Boston high schools. He discovered that six of
the city's highest-ranking students were illegal immigrants. Then he began to
hear stories of immigrants snared by Secure Communities.

One was Leonardo Machado, 35, an illegal immigrant and a construction worker
from Brazil who was stopped by a traffic officer because a rear brake light was
out. He did not have a valid driver's license. Immigration agents went to
traffic court and led him away in ankle and foot chains.

Mr. Machado agreed to leave for Brazil, along with his Brazilian wife and
5-year-old-son, a Boston-born American citizen. ''I am not fighting against the
laws,'' Mr. Machado said as he prepared his departure. ''But I am not a
criminal, and my wife and my little son are not criminals. They did not have to
humiliate us like that.''

Heloisa Galvao, executive director of the Brazilian Women's Group here, said:
''People listen to these stories. Lately the people are scared of the police
because they think the police are involved in immigration.''

Mr. Menino said a July 7 meeting he held with immigrant leaders had persuaded
him to try to cancel the program. He did not hide his anger when immigration
officials said it would continue.

''People will start to say the police are gestapos,'' the mayor said. ''My
police aren't gestapos. You can't be a bureaucrat in Washington and just say,
'We don't care.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Police Commissioner Edward Davis, left, and Mayor Thomas Menino
of Boston oppose the Secure Communities program. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELISE
AMENDOLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Widening Dragnet: The administration clings to a bad immigration program
despite local complaints

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 407 words


The Obama administration has decided to stick with Secure Communities, the
discredited but rapidly growing immigration-enforcement program that has helped
it deport a million people in the last two and a half years. And not only stick
with it, but force it down the throats of state and local leaders and
law-enforcement officials, including the governors of New York, Illinois and
Massachusetts, who have rejected the program, saying it is badly flawed and does
more harm than good.

Secure Communities is a scheme that in effect makes every local cop a potential
immigration agent. When a participating police agency sends an arrested person's
fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the prints are
automatically forwarded to the Department of Homeland Security for an
immigration check.

This has infuriated police chiefs and other law-enforcement professionals who
say Secure Communities hurts community policing because it makes innocent
immigrants fear the police and erodes the trust and cooperation of crime victims
and witnesses. It also increases the danger of racial profiling and other
constitutional abuses in immigrant neighborhoods.

Add the fact that the program sweeps up huge numbers of noncriminals and minor
offenders -- and has been plagued since its inception by miscommunication,
deception, opacity and suspicion -- and you have a program whose plug
desperately needs pulling. But local objections are no longer an issue. The feds
are insisting that Secure Communities will be imposed on every state by 2013,
and no one can opt out. It's nonnegotiable.

This has been the Obama way on immigration. He talks softly of giving
hard-working illegal immigrants a chance to get out of the shadows and get right
with the law, but has achieved nothing, through legislation or executive action,
that would allow that to happen. All the while, the administration has moved to
ramp up deportations, expanding the brutal efficiency of a system that Mr. Obama
has acknowledged is broken, arbitrary and unjust.

After New York, Massachusetts and Illinois gained headlines by rejecting Secure
Communities, the administration gave its answer. It simply revoked all the
Secure Communities contracts it had negotiated with state and local governments
and said it was imposing the program unilaterally. The message to states and
localities was both unequivocal and disheartening: We don't want your input --
we just want your fingerprints.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 17, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

3 Charged In Plot to Aid Smuggling

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 280 words


Three people, including a Manhattan lawyer, have been charged with helping to
smuggle hundreds of illegal immigrants into the country, the United States
attorney in Manhattan said on Tuesday.

In a scheme stretching back at least five years, the authorities said, they
helped smuggle more than 450 people into the United States in exchange for a
total of nearly $1 million. The accused were identified in court documents as
Hak Tung Lam, a lawyer who specializes in immigration; Wen Wo Lam; and a woman
referred to as Ying Yang.

The suspects advised smugglers on vulnerable points of entry and gave tips on
how to avoid being detected by, for example, hiding in a bathroom for at least
30 minutes after arriving at an airport so that immigration authorities would
not know where they had come from, according to the authorities.

Once the immigrants were in the country, Mr. Hak, Mr. Wen and Ms. Yang helped
them stay, according to court documents. They're accused of filing false
immigration documents and recruiting people to act as sponsors, encouraging them
to lie about their relationships with the immigrants.

''For Hak Tung Lam, zealous representation of his clients -- a group of
international alien smugglers -- allegedly meant assisting them in breaking the
law,'' said Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in Manhattan.

Mr. Hak, 44, and Ms. Yang, 30, both of Flushing, Queens, and Mr. Wen, 43, of
Staten Island, were arrested on Tuesday and released on bond. If convicted, Mr.
Hak would face a maximum of 25 years in prison, and Mr. Wen and Ms. Yang would
each face a maximum of 10 years in prison.

Lawyers for the suspects did not return calls for comment on Tuesday night.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 21, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Father's Memory, Fighting to Stay in Britain

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2247 words


CLAPHAM, England -- The boy was 13 when a dawn immigration raid abruptly ended
his father's four-year quest for political asylum in Britain. By nightfall of
that day in 2005, father and son were hundreds of miles from home, locked in the
privately run Yarl's Wood Immigration Removal Center here, scheduled for
deportation to their native Angola in the morning.

Instead, shortly after midnight, the despondent father, Manuel Bravo, 35, walked
to a stairwell with a bed sheet and hanged himself. The note he left said why:
so that his orphaned boy could stay in Britain.

Indeed, the law did not allow immigration authorities to deport an orphan who
had no one waiting for him. A British family the Bravos knew through church took
the boy, Antonio, home to Armley, the working-class suburb of Leeds where they
had settled in 2001.

Antonio, now 19, is an apprentice electrician who aspires to be an engineer. Not
far from his father's hilltop grave, he shares a century-old house with five
British roommates and regularly visits the family who raised him. ''I want to
make my dad proud and not feel like he gave his life away for no reason,'' he
said.

But next month, Antonio faces the threat of deportation all over again. Under
changing laws, instead of qualifying for citizenship this year, as he expected,
he is not eligible to apply. His temporary residence permit, granted on
humanitarian grounds, is expiring with no clear path to renewal.

Antonio's story is emblematic of one nation's escalating efforts to repel
unwanted migration, through an enforcement system partly run by private
contractors.

Like governments throughout the Western world, Britain's has come under
increasing pressure to increase expulsions, cut immigration and restrict
citizenship. At stake for officials is ''managed migration,'' a way to maintain
an influx of the most desirable settlers and genuine refugees by forcibly
excluding the rejected -- in an effort to rein in the hostility toward
foreigners that is mounting from Australia and the United States to Norway and
France.

''It is ever more important that proper immigration controls are not only in
place but are seen to be in place,'' Damian Green, Britain's immigration
minister, said last September after opening two new wings of another privately
run detention center near Heathrow Airport. ''If we do not create public
confidence in our immigration system, we will remain vulnerable to those who
want to find scapegoats for social problems.''

But some analysts contend that, on the contrary, the detention and deportation
boom has legitimized treating foreigners as scapegoats, ratcheting up public
anxieties and broader demands for restriction.

Over the past decade, public targets of crackdowns have shifted from ''bogus
asylum-seekers'' to ''criminal aliens'' and now to ''unsustainable net
immigration,'' a term that includes perfectly legal settlers, noted Mary
Bosworth, a criminologist at the University of Oxford who has tracked the
expansion of immigration jails like Yarl's Wood.

''There is this very public display and investment in making these places of
confinement look like they're holding dangerous people,'' Ms. Bosworth said.
''It locks the government into the position where it can only get tougher.''

And the rules keep changing. Last year Antonio passed a new ''Britishness test''
-- What is a shadow cabinet? When is Mothering Sunday? -- only to learn that it
no longer counts in his case.

''Great for a pub quiz, though,'' he said.

A Family on the Run

At first, the Bravos were a family of four: Mr. Bravo, calm and quiet; his
spirited wife, Lidia; their son, Nelio, 3; and Mr. Bravo's son, Antonio, 10,
whose own mother died giving birth to him in Angola. In asylum papers, Mr. Bravo
described himself as a farmer jailed and abused by the Angolan government
because of his role in a pro-democracy party founded by his father. He fled for
his life, he said, after security forces raided the family farm and killed his
parents and sisters. Angola was then in the 27th year of a civil war.

The Bravos requested asylum when they landed at Heathrow Airport in October
2001. Barred from work like most asylum-seekers in Britain, they were sent to
Armley to await a decision. They found support at Christ Church from Catherine
Beaumont, a volunteer at its immigrant help center, and the Rev. Alistair Kaye,
then the vicar.

But their application had joined a backlog just as the number of new
asylum-seekers in Britain soared toward a peak of 84,000 a year in 2002. Public
hostility soared, too, over revelations that few of those denied asylum ever
left.

The detention center, Yarl's Wood, was then just opening, part of an expansion
that the government and its private partners promised would triple the rate of
expulsion. Instead, within three months, the $140 million center was gutted by
fire during detainee protests over mistreatment.

An inquiry by the prisons and probation ombudsman found in 2004 that it had been
shoddily constructed and rushed into operation to meet ''unattainable'' Labour
government targets before an election. Of 385 detainees the night of the fire,
including 29 children and seven infants, only 46 had a deportation date, the
government acknowledged in Parliament.

By the middle of the decade, tighter border controls had cut asylum arrivals by
two-thirds from the 2002 peak. But public hostility toward asylum-seekers kept
rising, shaped by accusations that many were exploiting the public subsidies in
a system that was slow to decide cases and ineffective at expulsion.

Yarl's Wood was rebuilt. Detention for failed asylum-seekers will grow, the home
secretary told Parliament in 2005, ''to the point where it becomes the norm that
those who fail are detained.''

The declaration fit a two-pronged strategy by Prime Minister Tony Blair, who was
then opening doors to many immigrants, including computer specialists from Asia
and people from the newest members of the European Union. Simultaneously, he
showcased rigor toward rejected asylum-seekers, much as the Bush and Obama
administrations highlighted record numbers of detainees and deportations while
pursuing, albeit unsuccessfully, more lenient immigration laws.

Mr. Bravo's application was rejected in 2004, by a caseworker who cited
insufficient evidence to support it. Mr. Bravo had no lawyer at the appeal
hearing. ''He was really demoralized,'' Antonio said. ''He felt useless.'' The
long wait for a decision led to conflicts in his father's marriage, he added,
and worsened his own difficult relationship with his stepmother.

In fall 2004, the family split up. Taking Nelio, Mrs. Bravo returned to Angola
to care for critically ill relatives. She was arrested and fled again, to
Namibia, according to messages that trickled back. Mr. Bravo frantically tried
to contact them, Mr. Kaye, the vicar, said, and did not live long enough to
learn that she had reached Portugal, where she won asylum and dropped from
sight.

At dawn on Sept. 14, 2005, eight officers broke into the Bravos' small row
house. ''I can't get it out of my head,'' Antonio said. ''They bust in the door,
shining lights. They handcuffed us both -- I felt like a criminal, and I did
nowt'' -- nothing, in the dialect of northern England.

Later, in a report on the Bravo case, the ombudsman for prisons questioned the
need for such a ''robust exercise of state power'' after long inaction, calling
it ''frankly cruel.'' But the raid followed standard policy, he concluded, and
had been planned down to details like giving Antonio's five pet fish to a
neighbor. Nor was protocol breached by the subcontractors who loaded father and
son into a caged van.

The Detention Machine

The Bravos had entered the world of outsourced immigration enforcement. In
effect, they were in the custody of the Anglo-Danish company now known as G4S.

Its guards drove them past the brick villas and open fields of Bedfordshire to
an old military base where the Yarl's Wood detention center, developed by the
company in 2001, lies behind barbed wire.

Contractors now run 7 of Britain's 11 immigration detention centers, where
capacity has grown 75 percent since 2001. Mr. Bravo's one day in custody is
documented in rare detail in inquest records. What still haunts Antonio is the
moment when G4S transport guards discovered a brand-new clothesline in his
father's bag. They took the rope from Mr. Bravo, who was under treatment for
depression, but never alerted Yarl's Wood. G4S declined to comment for this
article on its operations, either in general or with regard to the Bravo case.

A nurse at Yarl's Wood, employed by another subcontractor, confiscated Mr.
Bravo's antidepressants and did not ask if he was suicidal -- for fear, she
testified, of putting the idea in his head. Official inquiries concluded that
these lapses made no difference.

Father and son were escorted through eight locked doors to their room, where
Antonio waited while Mr. Bravo made last-ditch phone calls.

One was to the vicar, who had been unable to reach government officials. ''He
was really struggling,'' Mr. Kaye said. ''He was terrified of going back.''

When Mr. Bravo returned to their room, Antonio said, he brought bad news: their
deportation was set for 10:30 a.m. ''He said, 'Whatever happens, be brave and
strong and I'm proud of you.' ''

Antonio was sleeping when security cameras recorded his father's suicide. The
ombudsman's 2006 report complains that for hours no one accepted responsibility
for waking the boy to tell him his father was dead, and later, no one explained
that he would not be deported alone.

''I only cried when Catherine came,'' Antonio remembered of Ms. Beaumont's
arrival. ''She came and said, 'We love you and we want you to come and live with
us.' ''

The staff members refused to let him go, invoking his best interest.

''You're prepared to send somebody back to possible imprisonment and harm in
Angola,'' observed Ms. Beaumont, a former nurse and mother of two, ''and the
next day you can't send him back to Leeds because you haven't assessed these
people.''

Before being allowed to join the Beaumonts, Antonio spent five days with elderly
strangers who plied him with tea. ''That's when I made the transition from
African to British,'' he said, ''a cup of tea every half minute.''

Assimilated and Rejected

Last fall, after work on a rainy night, Antonio led a visitor to the home where
he finished out his childhood. The dog went wild with excitement. In the parlor,
beside a glowing hearth, Ms. Beaumont teasingly recalled milestones of his
assimilation: feeding pigeons on a day trip to London, climbing a steep hill on
a family bicycling holiday in Devon, sulking through a cream tea afterward.

''I think you wished you'd never come to live with the family at that point,''
she said.

Mr. Kaye, who calls Antonio ''a wonderful lad,'' hints at the rougher patches
now masked by dry humor. ''They're the ones who had to cope with all the teenage
years, the grief and hard times,'' he said.

Despite efforts by London lawyers, Antonio's asylum application was rejected in
2006 because the authorities had already rejected his father's political claim.
But he received a five-year grant of humanitarian protection, which at the time
could lead to citizenship.

His English took on Yorkshire rhythms; he forgot Portuguese. When his foster
care subsidy ended at 18, he was earning his way as an apprentice electrician,
at ease as the only black man on the crew, saving up for citizenship fees and
university.

''My father told me to be strong and get my education,'' Antonio said. ''And to
me, to get a passport is the most important thing.''

But while Antonio tried to become British, British concerns about immigration
were growing. A study for the Washington-based Migration Policy Institute,
drawing on years of public opinion research, shows that even before the economic
crisis nearly 7 of 10 Britons felt the country had too many immigrants.

In the recession, attitudes hardened over perceived unfair competition for
public services and jobs, and fears of Britain being ''swamped'' by foreigners.
While 10 percent of Britain's population was born abroad -- fewer than in France
or Germany -- most people believed the figure was 25 percent. One political
response was an overhaul of citizenship law that broke the links between
temporary residence and settlement. Antonio's decade in Britain, marred by nine
months of illegal status as a child, is no longer sufficient to apply to stay
indefinitely. He lacks British relatives or exceptional skills, other avenues to
naturalization.

His permission to stay expires Sept. 18. In his category -- humanitarian
protection -- he must wait until 28 days before that date to apply for an
extension, and somehow show that his need for protection has not changed.

Meanwhile, the Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government has pledged to
halve net immigration, now about 200,000 people a year. Since it cannot curb
arrivals from the European Union, that means pushing harder to reject
non-Europeans.

For Antonio, there is a personal twist: Nelio, 13, came back to Britain on his
Portuguese, or European Union, passport. Antonio's former stepmother, who had
remarried -- and did not respond to a reporter's e-mail messages -- had sent
Nelio to be raised by Portuguese friends near Manchester. She has returned to
Angola, now a country at peace that is alien to Antonio.

''My family, they're English,'' he said, referring to the Beaumonts. ''Britain,
that's my culture.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Antonio Bravo, whose father killed himself as they awaited
deportation, has a tattoo that inspires his struggle to be British.(A1)
FAMILY TIES: Antonio Bravo, top, in Armley, England, at the grave of his father,
Manuel, who killed himself in 2005 in an effort to avert Antonio's deportation.
Driven by the sacrifice of his father, in a family photograph at left, Antonio
built a life in Britain with the help of Catherine Beaumont, right.
A TEMPORARY SANCTUARY: The Bravos lived in Armley after filing an asylum
request. In 2005, officers seized them at their home, center. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
ANDREW TESTA FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (A8) CHART: Tougher on
Immigrants: Some countries have significantly increased their immigrant
detentions in recent years. (Sources: Global Detention Project
Migration Policy Institute
Department of Immigration and Citizenship of Australia
 Transactional Record Access Clearinghouse at Syracuse University) (A8)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 4, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

California Dreaming

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 365 words


California is on the brink of making a wise investment in its future and
delivering a powerful rebuke to poisoned immigration politics at the national
level. This week, the Legislature is expected to pass the California Dream Act,
a bill to allow undocumented immigrants to receive state-financed college
scholarships and loans. Earlier this summer, the state gave such students access
to privately financed aid. The new bill should open even more doors to college
degrees for young Californians, and Gov. Jerry Brown should quickly sign it.

Making it easier for the undocumented to afford college does not give anyone
citizenship or a green card. Only the federal government can do that -- for
instance, through the federal Dream Act, which has long been stalled in Congress
and would give undocumented young people a path to legalization. But passing the
California Dream Act would be inspiring, not just for the opportunities it would
grant thousands of deserving students, but also for the message it would send.

The response to unauthorized immigration today, at the federal level and in far
too many states, conflates all illegal presence with criminality, and seeks to
choke off all opportunity for the undocumented regardless of circumstance.
California seems ready to say otherwise -- that it makes no sense to punish
young people who bear no responsibility for their unlawful status, to stifle
their education and ambition at the cusp of adulthood. Having grown up in this
country, these are Americans in all but name.

The California bill is expected to cost $40 million, about 1 percent of the $3.5
billion that California spends on state college aid. A leader of an
anti-immigration organization told a Times reporter that the measure was ''a
really stupid allocation of limited resources.''

He had it ludicrously backward. Hopeful, striving, well-educated people are a
resource any country needs. Consigning tens of thousands of bright minds to an
illegal existence and dead-end jobs, spending millions to purge work forces and
to arrest, imprison and deport people who are contributing to the economy --
that's the flagrant waste that too many Republicans are willing to perpetuate.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 539 words


International

SOMALI PIRATES RELEASE

SEVEN DANISH PRISONERS

Seven Danes have been released after being held hostage in Somalia since
February, when their yacht was hijacked by pirates in the Arabian Sea, the
Danish Foreign Ministry said. Page A8

VIETNAM ACCUSED OF ABUSE

A Vietnamese government program moves drug addicts off the streets and into
treatment centers, where they do simple work that might help them get back on
their feet. But a report by Human Rights Watch says it is nothing more than
sweatshop servitude. Page A12

National

DEAL WILL EXPAND PARK

CONTAINING FOSSIL REMAINS

The National Park Service will sign a deal greatly expanding the boundaries of
Petrified Forest National Park in Arizona, where the remains of relatively small
bipedal dinosaurs have been discovered. Page A16

STUDY ON DOCTORS' SALARIES

Doctors are paid higher fees in the United States than in many other countries,
and this is a major factor in the overall cost of health care, says a study by
two Columbia University professors. Page A19

New York

SAME-SEX MARRIAGE STIRS

SOME IMMIGRANT TEMPERS

The legalization of same-sex marriage in New York State has been embraced by
many in the city. But in some neighborhoods heavily populated by immigrants from
countries where homosexuality is less accepted, the idea is stirring feelings of
unease or even disgust. Page A22

Business

DRUG PATENT BILL COULD SAVE LAW FIRM $214 MILLION

The bill to overhaul the patent system that is now before the Senate contains a
provision that could get an influential law firm off the hook for a possible
$214 million malpractice payment. The provision clarifies how much time
pharmaceutical companies have to apply for patent extensions that can provide
extra years of protection from generic competition. Page B1

CORRECTING THE WEBCAM

Consumer tech is filled with enduring mysteries. Above all, why do companies
release new products they know are buggy and unfinished? Consider, for example,
Stem Innovations, which had a truly inspired idea: fix everything that's wrong
with Internet security cameras, writes David Pogue. Page B1

Arts

A PLANNED TAKEOVER

FOR THE SEAPORT MUSEUM

The Museum of the City of New York will take over the beleaguered Seaport Museum
New York using a $2 million grant from the corporation in charge of developing
Lower Manhattan, according to state, city and museum officials who made the deal
public. Page C1

Sports

HISTORY WEIGHS HARD

ON NEW ZEALAND RUGBY

The All Blacks, as the New Zealand team is known, have dominated international
rugby except when it matters most: during World Cup years. Rugby's top prize has
eluded them since 1987. Page B13

Home

LEARNING TO ASSESS DAMAGE

WHEN REPAIRING A ROOF

When it comes to home repairs, assessing the health of your roof requires a
discerning eye and a little patience. There can be enormous dividends both for
people who use contractors and for those rare homeowners who can safely make
roofing repairs themselves.The Pragmatist. Page D1

Style

AMONG MAKEUP ARTISTS,AN EYE ON EMERGING TALENT

Hoping to become the lead makeup artist for a show is a bit like waiting for a
rent-stabilized apartment. One to watch has been Yadim, who was an assistant for
years before striking out on his own. Page E3

OP-ED

Nicholas D. Kristof PAGE A25

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 8, 2011 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

In Immigrant Areas, Gay Marriage Stirs A Culture Clash

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1280 words


Molly Blooms, a Victorian-accented Irish bar in Sunnyside, Queens, recently
raffled off a free same-sex wedding reception, with a three-hour open bar, a
D.J., a photographer and a horse-drawn gilded carriage to deliver the winning
couple to the festivities. The bar's owner thought the idea would be good for
business and for the largely working-class and immigrant neighborhood.

But some in the community disagreed.

Neighbors said they would boycott the bar. Bloggers posted reports of past
health violations there. Larry Yang, the Korean-American owner of a hardware
store a few doors away, said he resented such a public promotion of same-sex
marriage. He said many among the large number of Korean-American Christians in
Queens felt similarly but feared that if they spoke out they would be demonized
by a liberal majority.

''If that horse-drawn carriage rides by my store, I will make sure my kids do
not see it,'' Mr. Yang, 45, said. ''I am worried about what kind of message gay
marriage is sending.''

The legalization of same-sex marriage in New York State has been embraced by
many in the city. But in some neighborhoods heavily populated by immigrants from
countries where homosexuality is less accepted, the idea is stirring feelings of
unease or, at times, outright disgust.

Sunnyside has been transformed in recent decades, first by immigration, and more
recently by urban professionals priced out of Manhattan. As in some other parts
of the city, same-sex marriage has laid bare the clash between the social
conservatism of many immigrants and the values of the often wealthier and more
liberal newcomers to the neighborhood.

Many immigrants in Sunnyside are Muslims from Turkey, where the military, the
guardian of the country's secular state, regards homosexuality as a disorder. On
a recent day on 46th Street, a group of men hunched over Turkish newspapers next
to a mosque in a part of the neighborhood that includes kebab shops, a Jewish
community center, a Romanian restaurant and a Russian hairdresser.

Aliihsan Simcek, 63, a former police officer from Ankara, said many Turks in New
York opposed same-sex marriage because Islam regards homosexuality as a sin.
''Here in America, everything is possible,'' he said. ''I am not against gays,
just gay marriage. I don't want to see two guys kissing or two men adopting a
child. I'll never go to this Molly Blooms. What they do behind four walls is
their business.''

Dean Sirigos, 50, a Greek-American writer for The National Herald, a Greek
newspaper based in Long Island City, Queens, said that among the 450,000
Greek-Americans in the New York metropolitan region, the debate over same-sex
marriage had created a culture clash and a generational divide. Even the younger
people, reared on Internet dating and MTV, are struggling to reconcile secular
values absorbed in America with the teachings of the Greek Orthodox Church,
which opposes same-sex marriage.

In a survey on The National Herald's Web site late last month, about 1,000
Greek-Americans responded to the question, ''Do you approve of gay marriage?''
Eighty-six percent said no.

''Many in the Greek community are conservative and traditional, and marriage is
viewed as a sacrament of the church, not as a civil right,'' Mr. Sirigos said.

In Flushing, Queens, one of New York's most polyglot neighborhoods, with one of
the largest Asian communities in the country, opponents of same-sex marriage
said they had felt sidelined during the debate over it.

Dian Song Yu, executive director of the Flushing Business Improvement District,
said many Chinese-Americans did not support same-sex marriage, especially those
from mainland China, which has socially conservative Communist rulers. Mr. Yu
said many Chinese-Americans had imported the values of their homeland, where
gay-oriented Web sites are blocked, gay characters are largely absent from
television and coming out remains rare.

''If someone were to open a gay club in Chinatown here, most people won't go,''
he said. ''The younger generation might be more accepting, but for the older
generation, it would be viewed as horrible.''

Even some who back same-sex marriage expressed ambivalence. The Rev. Joseph D.
Jerome, a Haitian-American who is the rector at All Saints Episcopal Church in
Sunnyside, said that although he supported the right of same-sex couples to wed,
he was not ready to officiate at such marriages. He said he had yet to come to
terms with the language and liturgy for such ceremonies.

''To pronounce someone 'spouse and spouse' would be difficult for me,'' he said.

For all the dissenting voices in Sunnyside, the neighborhood is represented by a
gay city councilman, Jimmy Van Bramer, a Democrat. He said he understood that
some immigrants were uncomfortable with same-sex marriage, but he added that it
was a sign of the times that he had been embraced by many of them.

''Today you can see two young gay men holding hands and walking down Queens
Boulevard, and no one cares,'' he said.

The owner of Molly Blooms, Ciaran Staunton -- a heterosexual married father of
two and a Roman Catholic -- said he was determined to be part of what he called
''the last great civil rights battle.''

He said most in the neighborhood had welcomed the idea of a free same-sex
wedding reception.

''There are always going to be some naysayers who don't like it,'' said Mr.
Staunton, 48, who came to New York from County Mayo, Ireland, nearly 20 years
ago.

The pub was overflowing with Guinness-fueled revelers when the winners of the
wedding reception, Janice Velten, 59, a mail carrier in Queens, and her
girlfriend of 24 years, Patrice Pfirman, 54, a civilian worker in the Police
Department, were announced.

They said their biggest worry was that Molly Blooms was not large enough to host
all the guests they planned to invite to their October celebration.

Ms. Velten recalled that when she moved to Sunnyside 30 years ago, it was
largely Irish and Italian, and Catholic and conservative. Back then, coming out
as gay was seen as debilitating, both personally and professionally, she said.
But since the announcement of the raffle result, Ms. Velten said, residents of
all backgrounds have high-fived her when she delivers the mail.

''Today Sunnyside is no longer Archie Bunker land,'' she said.

Around the neighborhood, though, some immigrants said they were still not ready
for such stark social change. Mr. Yang, the hardware store owner, dismissed the
free wedding reception as a cynical ploy.

''It's a business thing, because a lot of gay people live here,'' he said. ''I
have no problem with my gay customers. But we are Korean. We are conservative.
No one says, 'This gay marriage is a good thing.' What is this world coming
to?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 2011



CORRECTION: An article on Sept. 8 about a bar in Queens that set off a conflict
in its immigrant community when it raffled off a free same-sex wedding reception
referred imprecisely to a statistic taken from The National Herald, which posed
the question ''Do you approve of gay marriage?'' to its Greek-American readers.
While 86 percent said they did not approve, that figure was based on about 1,000
readers who chose to answer the question when it was posted on the paper's Web
site; the figure was not arrived at through a scientific ''poll'' in which The
National Herald contacted readers. The article also misidentified the location
of a nearby hardware store, whose owner said he resented such a public promotion
of same-sex marriage. The hardware store, owned by Larry Yang, is a few doors
away from the bar on the same side of the street, not ''next door.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Janice Velten, left, and Patrice Pfirman, who have been a
couple for 24 years, were the winners of Molly Blooms's same-sex wedding raffle.
They plan to hold their reception there in October. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER
MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Larry Yang, a Korean-American who is the owner of a hardware store next to the
bar, said, ''I am worried about what kind of message gay marriage is sending.''
 Ciaran Staunton, the Irish-American owner of Molly Blooms, a bar in Sunnyside,
Queens, raffled off an all-inclusive same-sex wedding reception. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 10, 2011 Saturday
                         The New York Times on the Web

An Immigration Lottery Won, Then Dreams Lost

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; ASKED AND ANSWERED; Pg.

LENGTH: 1156 words


Earlier this year, the United States State Department notified some 22,000
applicants from around the world that they were among the winners of its lottery
drawing for a permanent resident visa, known as a green card. A few days later,
however, the State Department changed course, saying the winners were not
winners after all because the required random-selection process had been done
improperly. The dreams of applicants from Venezuela to Egypt and Uzbekistan to
Fiji were dashed. Months later, that disappointment continues. Two would-be
winners, each from Russia, talk about what it was like to have won -- and then
lost.

Anna Demidchik, 27, is a third-year law student at Hofstra University who was
born in Kazakhstan and raised in Russia. Ms. Demidchik is fluent in Russian,
Mandarin and English and has a bachelor's degree in Chinese history, language
and culture from Novosibirsk State University in Russia.

Q. When did you apply for the visa lottery?

A. ''I have applied four times. Once I came to the U.S., I decided I wanted to
stay here. I made a lot of friends. I applied in October 2010 and got the
results in May 2011. I remember I got up at 6 a.m. to check the results on the
State Department Web site. I entered the confirmation number and it said, 'You
are among those randomly selected for further processing in the Diversity
Immigrant Visa Program for the fiscal year 2012.' I was so very happy. I took a
deep breath, and for a couple of minutes I just stared at it. Then I called my
parents and my friends, and I wrote it on Facebook and on my Russian Facebook
and I also called an immigration lawyer to schedule a consultation. Then I went
for my run, and then I continued studying for my final.''

Q. Lots of people selected for the diversity visa lottery do not ultimately get
a residents' visa. Why are you so sure you would have gotten a green card?

A. ''It is true that not everyone who gets the notice is going to get a green
card, and they do security checks and financial checks that eliminate people.
But my (case) number was low. My immigration lawyer said, 'You are getting your
green card 100 percent.' ''

Q. Did you make any life changes before the State Department notified people
that it had made a mistake?

A. ''My parents put their apartment in Novosibirsk on sale to get me more money.
I had a 25 percent share in it. They lost a couple of thousand dollars to the
real estate broker when they took it off the market once the award was
cancelled.''

Q. What are your plans now?

A. ''We had planned to file an appeal of the court decision on our case. [In
July, a lawsuit against the State Department by the would-be winners was
dismissed by a federal court judge.] The problem is, it looks like we won't be
able to pull enough money together to pay for the services of a lawyer. The
lawyer is charging $35,000 for a retainer, with the estimate for the entire case
of $150,000 to $200,000. So far, we've only gathered about $7,000. About 600
people registered for participating in the appeal, yet not everyone's willing to
pay a few hundred dollars. I can't blame them. The chances are low. I plan to
participate in the next diversity visa lottery if it doesn't get cancelled. The
House of Judiciary Committee passed a bill to eliminate it. The registration
form only takes a couple minutes. I'm graduating next May, and by early 2013 I
should have an attorney's license. I have a job offer with a law firm that
caters to immigrants from different countries and the employer is willing to
sponsor an employment green card for me. During this year, I plan to study
Cantonese and Spanish to add to Mandarin to make sure that it's definitely
cheaper for the employer to sponsor me than it is to hire a few different
translators or foreign-language-speaking lawyers.''

Anna Guniya, 23, who lives in Moscow, was a junior strategic partner at an
advertising agency in Russia when she applied for the visa lottery. She
responded to questions by e-mail.

Q. How did you find out you had been chosen?

A. ''I thought I'd lost the confirmation number. It was such a drag, and I
couldn't find it anywhere. Turned out that my computer system remembered it for
me as it would remember any password to an e-mail. So I was lucky twice: Once
when I clicked the cursor of the mouse only to see my confirmation number pop
out at me, and secondly when I read the letter stating that I won. I WON!
Firstly, I was very shocked and confused because it was very unexpected. This
was a time for a serious decision that could have affected my whole life. It was
a serious step to take. My cousin won a green card seven years ago, and now is a
U.S. citizen. He lives in New York. So the moment I saw the results I called him
to consult. He dispelled all my doubts immediately, convincing me not to lose
such an opportunity. When he heard my case number, which was very low, he
assured me that it is 95 percent that I'll pass the interview. So I had so many
pros on my side -- low case number; participated from the European region; a
luggage of good academic background; work experience; was going to immigrate
single; no problems with the law. I believe that everything is happening for a
reason, and the fact that my computer remembered my confirmation number only
made me even more confident that I would get my green card.''

Q. What had you done to change your life in preparation for coming to the United
States?

A. ''I started the early preparation in order to study for a master's in
marketing. I quit my job to prepare for the G.M.A.T. and Toefl tests, which the
university in New York I wanted to attend required. It seemed unreal and
shocking and happy and whatnot. I got invited to a job interview (in Russia)
once during that period, but I turned it down because I wanted to dedicate all
my time to the exams and the planning of my future life in U.S. Then on the 9th
of May, I opened the U.S. Department of State Consular Affairs Facebook page and
saw a message, 'Attention Diversity Visa Lottery Applicants: We are experiencing
technical problems with the Web site. We are aware of the problem and taking
action. Thanks for your patience.' So then, four days later, you know what
happened.''

Q. What will you do next?

A. ''Currently I am in search of a new job in Moscow and trying to get things
back to normal here.

I don't want to immigrate to the U.S. For me, it is not a land of dreams and
possibilities any more. The way the U.S. government treated me and these 22 000
people was really cruel and unfair, they would never do the same with their
citizens. We received an official commitment from the U.S. Department of State,
which they were not able to fulfill. Everything that happened dispelled all my
illusions, so I am definitely not going to participate in the diversity lottery
any more. I am still thinking about getting a master's degree in marketing in an
English-speaking country, but probably I would choose England.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Welcome Rescinded

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; SpecialSections; THE 9/11 DECADE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 374 words


The Sept. 11 attacks transformed the way the United States regards foreigners
who want to come here to visit or to live.

America ''used to see foreigners' travel as an unquestionably good thing,'' said
Edward Alden, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''In the
current thinking, it is intrinsically threatening, and we want people to come
only if they are carefully screened and controlled.''

The immigration and border agencies, whose main purpose had been to facilitate
entry, were brought under the newly created Department of Homeland Security. Now
their primary mission is to keep terrorists out. Security screening has vastly
improved, but it is far more difficult for foreign travelers and immigrants to
come here. Here are some of the hurdles.

If you live in a country where visas are required, to apply for one you must be
photographed and fingerprinted, pass criminal background checks, have a personal
interview with a consular officer and pay a $140 fee.

If you are a traveler from China, you can wait up to four months for a tourist
visa. The wait for Brazilians can be 150 days.

If you are from India, you may have to make a costly trip to reach one of only
five United States consulates in that country -- for an interview that can last
less than five minutes.

If you are from one of the 36 countries deemed safe allies where visas are not
required -- like Britain, Germany, Japan or Brunei -- you must submit your
travel plans electronically for advance screening and give fingerprints when you
arrive.

If you are arriving by car from Canada or Mexico, expect a wait. You must
present a passport, and no matter how long the lines, your document will be
checked against criminal databases.

If you are an Afghan who risked your life working with American troops or
diplomats in your country, you could wait two years or more for a background
check before being approved for a visa.

If you are a Filipino trying to come to live with family members here, don't
hold your breath. Mixed feelings about immigration since Sept. 11 have
compounded the gridlock in Congress, which has not added any new visas for
permanent residents. Authorities are currently issuing those visas to Filipinos
whose applications were approved in 1996.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC (Sources: U.S. Travel Association, Department of Homeland
Security reports
State Department Visa Bulletin) (GRAPHIC BY ED NACIONAL)
 CHARTS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 11, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Teenage Immigrant Dreams in the City

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 601 words


''EVERYBODY has The Outfit -- the outfit they bought for America,'' Brooke
Hauser writes in ''The New Kids: Big Dreams and Brave Journeys at a High School
for Immigrant Teens'' (Free Press).

''The students who have lived in the country for longer have learned how to
blend in better, disappearing in brand-name sneakers and low-riding jeans,'' Ms.
Hauser continues in her opening chapter. ''But each September on the first day
of school, the new kids are easy to spot.''

They hail from 45 countries and speak more than two dozen languages, and by the
time most of them graduate from the International High School at Prospect
Heights in Brooklyn, they have learned English well enough to pry open the doors
to their American Dream.

Inspired by her article in The New York Times's City section about the prom
organized by the school's class of 2008 -- many members had no idea what a prom
was -- Ms. Hauser's book is a refreshing reminder of the hurdles newcomers to
this country still face and how many defy the odds to overcome them.

''There was the Bangladeshi boy who wished his classmates a good evening every
morning,'' she writes, ''and the well-meaning Tibetan girl who innocently
greeted her social-studies teacher in the halls by saying, 'Hey, sexy!' ''

Whether every one of them will achieve his or her vision of success within a
decade or two is problematic. But at least they all will have survived high
school.

They persevere, as they did just to get to this country -- young immigrants who
include the son of a diamond miner from Sierra Leone and a Tibetan who spent 24
hours in a suitcase escaping to freedom.

The class of 2009's final year at the International High School epitomizes
acculturation, American style, and the school yearbook embodies it. ''When they
turn the pages, they will recognize the smiling, semi-veiled face of a Muslim
classmate whom they almost lost,'' Ms. Hauser writes. ''And next to her picture,
they will read the words of Robert Frost: 'In three words, I can sum up
everything I've learned about life: It goes on.' ''

When New Yorkers were asked in a New York Times/CBS News poll last month where
they would like to live four years from now, a majority said they hoped to still
call the city home.

Perhaps Howard Jordan Jr., 35, an advertising creative director transplanted 12
years ago from Virginia, was out to change a few minds when he compiled ''101
Reasons to Leave New York'' (Eloquent Books). But I doubt it. Individually, some
reasons elicit a knowing chuckle. Collectively, they were not enough to persuade
Mr. Jordan himself to leave town -- not yet, anyway.

After all, he writes, ''this is a book that recognizes and articulates the
unimaginable notion of willingly leaving New York City -- then gives all the
reasons you'll ever need to justify doing so.''

Take No. 71. Please. ''You have to walk up the escalator. Old people are always
in your way. You'll even squeeze into a train car that's well past capacity even
though the conductor has informed you that 'there is another train directly
behind this one.' The fact is, you're always in a hurry.''

Two colorful new books for children teach the alphabet through New York vistas.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art's ''NYC ABC'' (Skira Rizzoli) offers a charming
introduction not only to letters, but to the museum's rich collection of
paintings and photographs. ''The ABCs of Brooklyn: An Alphabet Guidebook for All
Ages'' (Lynas Press), by G. Augustine Lynas and Peter Vadnai, celebrates the
borough with vivid photographs that acquaint young readers with letters and
numbers. (X, of course, is for Avenue X.)

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLASS OF 2009: At the International High School at Prospect
Heights in Brooklyn, students hail from 45 countries and speak more than two
dozen languages. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BROOKE HAUSER)
 C IS FOR CENTRAL PARK: ''Spring in Central Park,'' by Adolf Dehn, in ''NYC ABC,
'' which teaches the alphabet. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM ''NYC ABC''/THE METROPOLITAN
MUSEUM OF ART AND SKIRA RIZZOLI)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 14, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Inquiry Traces Foreigners With Visas

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 501 words


A vast investigation by the Department of Homeland Security of 1.6 million cases
of foreigners suspected of remaining in the United States after their visas
expired has shown that more than half of them have already left the country or
obtained legal immigration status, officials told Congress on Tuesday.

Department officials put the remaining cases of foreigners who could still be in
the country through an intensive electronic screening. About 2,000 of them were
determined to be here and to pose a potential national security or public safety
threat, they said.

After further investigation of that group, the department opened ''several
hundred'' new investigations of the foreigners where there was evidence of
substantial risk, the officials said. The department said its priority was to
detect and prosecute those high-risk immigrants.

In two separate hearings, department officials reported the results of a review
of all cases in the department's files of foreigners suspected of overstaying
their visas. The review was ordered in May by Secretary Janet Napolitano in
advance of the 10th anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks. The review yielded the
first solid information about illegal immigrants in the country who first
entered legally. Previously, officials relied on imprecise estimates.

John D. Cohen, a senior department official for counterterrorism, told a House
Homeland Security subcommittee that after running all the cases in the backlog
through databases of law enforcement, border security and intelligence agencies,
officials had found that 843,000 of the possible visa violators had left the
country or fixed their status.

The officials said the investigation showed that the Homeland Security
Department had developed technology to track foreigners in the United States and
determine if they had left when their visas expired. The new electronic search
methods would greatly improve the ability to identify and punish those who
overstay visas, they said.

Speaking before the Senate Homeland Security Committee, Ms. Napolitano said the
department was moving on a ''fast track'' to create a nationwide electronic exit
system to determine when foreigners leave the country.

While security checks of arriving foreigners have sharply improved since the
Sept. 11 attacks, the United States still does not have any system for keeping
track of when foreigners leave. Many Republicans and some Democrats in Congress
have called on the Homeland Security Department to create an exit system based
on biometric inspections of travelers as they leave through airports and land
border crossing points. But Obama administration officials have argued such a
system would be too complex and expensive to create.

''Officials are saying they are now going to be able to determine on a real-time
basis who has overstayed visas,'' said Edward Alden, senior fellow at the
Council on Foreign Relations, noting that the administration was making a clear
shift away from the goal of a more cumbersome exit system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 15, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Advocates Split Over Arizona Boycott

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1251 words


PHOENIX -- The boycott of Arizona is on. No, the boycott of Arizona is off.
Deciding whether to visit this state, which may or may not be boycotted, is as
disorienting as peering into the depths of the Grand Canyon.

After Arizona's passage of controversial immigration legislation in April 2010,
musicians canceled Arizona concerts, tourists canceled Arizona vacations and
convention organizers bypassed Arizona in favor of less politically toxic
states. But the very activists who put the boycott in place, hurting the state's
pocketbook in the process, are now divided over whether it ought to continue.

Some called for the boycott's end last year, after a federal judge blocked the
most contentious elements of the immigration law. Others have peeled off more
recently, with the National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group,
announcing last week that it no longer backed the boycott. Still other activists
have dug in their heels, insisting that Arizona ought to remain off limits for
the foreseeable future.

''There's been confusion surrounding every aspect of this issue from the
start,'' said Kristen Jarnagin, the spokeswoman for the Arizona Hotel and
Lodging Association, whose members were battered by the boycott and want it
officially and completely kaput. ''We're glad some say it's over. To the others,
we'd hope they'd be as quick to retract the boycott as they were to get in line
at the start.''

Whether it is on or off, studies have pointed to significant drops in convention
and hotel business in Arizona since the boycott was declared. Besides that,
activists point with pride to the letter that Arizona business leaders, fearing
more protests, wrote to state lawmakers this year urging that they back off from
even tougher immigration measures they were considering.

But the mixed signals are creating confusion among those who are sympathetic to
the cause.

The singer Steve Earle, who joined the boycott last year, scheduled a concert in
Tucson in July, thinking the boycott had been lifted. After being criticized, he
canceled but expressed frustration as he did so.

Mr. Earle said in a statement that he wanted ''to do more research about the
boycott and its effects because as someone who supports the immigrants rights
movement, I am not convinced that it is useful to continue to stay away from
progressive fans in the state.''

Other artists have decided to perform in Arizona, boycott or no boycott.

Los Lobos, which initially backed the boycott and canceled its Arizona shows
last year, went ahead with a concert in May in Tucson. To show its opposition to
the Arizona law, the band allowed immigrant rights groups to raffle off a signed
guitar and to distribute literature to concertgoers in the lobby. Four groups
joined in, but not Coalicion de Derechos Humanos, an immigrant rights group in
Tucson, which issued a statement saying the concert would ''diffuse the effect
that boycotts and event cancellations have.''

One of the early public officials to back away from the boycott was
Representative Raul M. Grijalva, a Democrat from Tucson, who found his
constituents up in arms about the prospect of even more economic suffering.

''I am telling people to come back to Arizona,'' Mr. Grijalva said last week.
''My opinion is the new strategy ought to be to invite people to come but to
urge them to help change the political climate.''

The Service Employees International Union, an influential boycott proponent,
ended its support for economic sanctions against Arizona in December. But the
Sound Strike, a Los Angeles group that urged entertainers to steer clear of the
state after the passage of Senate Bill 1070, said last week that the boycott
continued.

Juan Ramos, a pastor at Love International, a large bilingual church in central
Phoenix, recently persuaded a national group of evangelicals to hold its
convention in Arizona, arguing that the boycott, which he never supported, was
hurting the immigrants it was supposed to help.

But Kat Rodriguez, program director for Coalicion de Derechos Humanos, continues
to recommend that tourists stay away, musicians cancel for-profit concerts and
conventions look elsewhere for meeting space.

''Our interest is not boycotting for the sake of boycotting,'' Ms. Rodriguez
said. ''We want the state not to continue with business as usual. People think
S. B. 1070 was last year's news, but immigrants in this state are still
suffering.''

The law never fully went into effect. A federal judge blocked the provision that
required police officers to check the immigration status of those they stop who
are suspected of being in the country illegally. The State of Arizona has
appealed the case to the United States Supreme Court. Gov. Jan Brewer, who
gained both political traction and scorn by signing the law, has condemned the
boycotters as misguided, saying on one occasion, ''They're hurting the people
they pretend they want to help.''

As it is, some activists say the boycott is over, others say it is on, and many
take an intermediate stance in which they call on visitors to make a difference
if they come to the state.

''We're looking for real actions and not just people coming here to play golf at
some convention or go to the Grand Canyon for the views or Sedona to stand in
front of the vortexes,'' Ms. Rodriguez said.

Many of the municipalities and school districts that joined in the boycott last
year have not changed their stances. ''We're just watching the situation,'' said
John Stiles, spokesman for Mayor R. T. Rybak of Minneapolis, who last year
ordered department heads to steer clear of Arizona.

Unsure whether the boycott was still in effect, the National Hispanic Christian
Leadership Conference, the largest organization of Latino evangelical churches
in the country, reached out to Arizona pastors before deciding to hold its
conference in Tucson this month. Those pastors were eager for moral support,
said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, president of the group.

''What prompted us to hold our summit in Arizona is that we don't want people to
forget Arizona,'' Mr. Rodriguez said. ''We don't want the immigration issue on
the back burner. We want to remind people that this is a state that attempted to
incorporate racial profiling into its law.''

Javier Gonzalez, the organizer of the Sound Strike, said that the group had been
holding concerts in Arizona throughout the boycott but that they were events
from which the bulk of the proceeds went to immigrant rights groups.

''We need to look at the next step,'' Mr. Gonzalez acknowledged. ''There is a
difference of opinion that exists. Some artists want to never play in Arizona
again. Others want to know when they can go back.''

Lady Gaga's decision to forgo the boycott, even though she denounced the
immigration law from the stage during her July 2010 concert in Phoenix, drew
criticism from some activists. A concert planned this month in Phoenix by Manu
Chao, a French singer of Spanish heritage, is drawing praise because it is free
and in support of the National Day Laborer Organizing Network.

One reason the boycott has lost its effectiveness, some immigration advocates
say, is that the legislation aimed at making life difficult for illegal
immigrants has spread from Arizona nationwide.

''With Alabama, Georgia and South Carolina passing similar or more onerous
legislation, the point of telling people not to visit Arizona is moot now,'' Mr.
Grijalva, the Tucson Democrat, said. ''And I'm not sure it makes sense to have a
long list of boycotted states.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The national scope of the boycott was apparent in Milwaukee
last summer when the Arizona Diamondbacks played the Brewers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM
PRISCHING/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The Los Angeles City Council's vote to support the boycott prompted this protest
outside City Hall last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMIAN DOVARGANES/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Representative Raul M. Grijalva at a 2010 forum in Arizona. ''I am telling
people to come back to Arizona,'' he said last week. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH
FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 24, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Oscar Handlin Dies at 95, Historian Who Chronicled U.S. Immigration

BYLINE: By PAUL VITELLO

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 862 words


Oscar Handlin, a prolific, Pulitzer Prize-winning historian whose best-known
book altered public perceptions about the role of immigration in the arc of
American history, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 95. His
death was confirmed by his wife, Lilian.

Dr. Handlin wrote many scholarly volumes on immigration, race and ethnic
identity during his nearly half century as a history professor at Harvard. His
work as a chronicler of the migrations of Puerto Ricans and African-Americans to
the cities attracted a generation of historians and sociologists to urban
studies during the 1950s, when the field was considered marginal.

But his best-known work, ''The Uprooted: The Epic Story of the Great Migrations
That Made the American People,'' which won the 1952 Pulitzer for history, was
aimed at an audience of general readers in making his case that immigration --
more than the frontier experience, or any other episode in its past -- was the
continuing, defining event of American history. Dispensing with footnotes and
writing in a lyrical style, Dr. Handlin emphasized the common threads in the
experiences of the 30 million immigrants who poured into American cities between
1820 and the turn of the century. Regardless of nationality, religion, race or
ethnicity, he wrote, the common experience was wrenching hardship, alienation
and a gradual Americanization that changed America as much as it changed the
newcomers.

The book used a form of historical scholarship considered unorthodox at the
time, employing newspaper accounts, personal letters and diaries as well as
archives. The New York Times described it as ''history with a difference -- the
difference being its concern with hearts and souls.''

Dr. Handlin, whose parents were Jewish immigrants from Russia, was among the
first Jewish scholars appointed to a full professorship at Harvard, where he
taught from 1939 until 1984. His family's immigrant background, and the
influence of a mentor, the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr., who pioneered
the field of immigration studies at Harvard, led him to the subject of his Ph.D.
dissertation, and his first book, ''Boston's Immigrants: 1790-1880.''

Published in 1941, it was considered innovative for its use of census data, the
archives of German and Irish immigrant newspapers and sociological concepts in
tracing how immigrants, most of them coming from rural communities steeped in
ancient traditions, adjusted to life without the support of those traditions in
an American city where they were scorned.

''All his work tried to capture the voice and experience of people undergoing
this uprooting process, this process of immigration,'' said David J. Rothman, a
history professor at Columbia University and a former student of Dr. Handlin's.
''He was alert to the fact that every group was different. But this process,
regardless of whether you were Irish or Jewish, was something shared.''

In the often-quoted opening line of the introduction to ''Uprooted,'' Dr.
Handlin wrote: ''Once I thought to write a history of the immigrants in America.
Then I discovered that the immigrants were American history.''

Oscar Handlin was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 29, 1915, the oldest of four
children of Joseph and Ida Handlin. His father owned a grocery store. Oscar
Handlin told interviewers that he decided to become a historian when he was 8,
and began reading avidly, even while delivering groceries to his father's
customers.

He graduated from Brooklyn College in 1934, at 19, and received a master's
degree in history from Harvard the next year. He taught at Brooklyn College from
1936 until 1938 while working toward his doctorate, which he received from
Harvard in 1940.

His first wife, Mary Flug Handlin, a historian, died in 1976 after 40 years of
marriage. He was married again, in 1977, to Lilian Bombach Handlin. Dr. Handlin
is also survived by three children from his first marriage, David, Joanna Smith,
and Ruth Manley; four grandchildren; a great grandchild and a brother, Nathan.

In 1965, Dr. Handlin lent his weight as the nation's most eminent immigration
scholar to the effort to pass legislation abolishing an immigration quota
system, in place since the 1920s, which discriminated against many groups,
including Asians. He testified before Congress, and was said to have played an
important behind-the-scenes role. The legislation was adopted.

His views on immigration became less popular in the late 1960s and '70s, when a
younger generation of scholars began to examine historic events through the
prisms of race, class and gender. He clashed with fellow scholars who were, to
him, distorting American history by viewing it through the politics of the
Vietnam-era culture war. His support for the war frequently placed him at odds
with students and fellow members of the faculty.

But Dr. Handlin changed the way Americans view American history, said James
Grossman, a historian and executive director of the American Historical
Association. ''He reoriented the whole picture of the American story,'' he said,
''from the view that America was built on the spirit of the Wild West, to the
idea that we are a nation of immigrants.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

NAME: Oscar Handlin

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Oscar Handlin, a Harvard professor for almost 50 years,
wrote ''The Uprooted,'' which won the Pulitzer Prize in 1952. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HARVARD UNIVERSITY)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 28, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foods of Their Homeland, Now Mainstreamed

BYLINE: By JOHN T. EDGE

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; UNITED TASTES;
Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1488 words


ST. LOUIS

AT A & M Bakery, the Grabic family bakes French baguettes that are popular with
Vietnamese immigrants. They braid challah for Jewish customers.

Senad Grabic learned to bake rye in Germany after he fled his Bosnian home in
1992 as Serbian troops slaughtered thousands of his Muslim countrymen after the
breakup of Yugoslavia.

The round yeasty bread that fills the shelves at A & M is a taste of what he
left behind. He calls it by its Bosnian name, lepinja.

But his daughter Mirela, 22, simply calls it white bread.

''We try to keep it neutral,'' said Ms. Grabic, who like many refugees and
children of refugees here, lives with the specter of the war but does not want
to be defined by it. ''We're internationalists.''

Nearly two decades after the Grabics and other refugees first began to arrive in
St. Louis, more Bosnians live here (60,000 in all) than anywhere else outside
Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the International Institute of St. Louis.
During the 1990s, when the city's population declined more than 10 percent,
Bosnians reinvigorated neighborhoods around Bevo Mill, an earlier locus of
German immigrants.

In time, they opened insurance agencies, foot reflexology clinics and
truck-driving schools. They now operate coffee shops like Cafe Milano, where
coconut-topped desserts and cigarettes are popular indulgences. They run butcher
shops like South City Meat and Deli, where the cases are stacked with veal
sausages and lamb shoulders. They now perform in hip-hop bands like South Side
Bosanci and publish a nationally distributed weekly newspaper, often called the
Bosnian New York Times.

Like many immigrants, people of Bosnian ancestry here negotiate a balance
between conserving the ways of their homeland and assimilating. Those
negotiations have sometimes been fraught, in part because most of them are
Muslim.

''People were suspect of us,'' said Mirza Imamovic, who came here 13 years ago
and now manages Gyro Company, his family's counter-service restaurant. ''If they
didn't know us, they thought we were some kind of radicals from the Middle
East.''

''They thought we ate crazy food, they thought we ate spicy curries,'' he said,
while assembling gyros on halves of lepinja bread.

''Now,'' he said, ''we run an American-sounding restaurant.''

Mr. Imamovic, like other proprietors, forgoes overt Bosnian trappings. Some
restaurants display statuettes of chefs in poofy toques who look blandly
continental. His family chose ''Company'' for the restaurant's name to sound
capitalistic. To his young middle-class customers, he offers Mexican-bottled
Coca-Cola and sriracha sauce, products popularized by new immigrants and now
adopted by the American mainstream.

''We don't push it,'' he said. ''We're going after an American market and trying
to preserve some of our identity, too.''

The International Institute of St. Louis, in concert with the refugee bureau of
the State Department, designated the city as a Bosnian resettlement center
because they believed there were enough jobs, economical housing and earlier
arrivals who spoke the refugees' language. (It was not a deciding factor, but it
must have seemed fortuitous that the fleur-de-lis is a symbol of St. Louis and
Bosnia.)

The refugees were welcomed by Bosnians like Sulejman Grbic, who came to St.
Louis in 1974, and his wife, Ermina Grbic, who came here in 1981. Before they
opened Grbic Restaurant and Banquet Center in 2002, they had already
distinguished themselves as community organizers.

''We were like a Red Cross,'' Ms. Grbic said as she and her son Ermin Grbic
served an early lunch of trahana, a tomato-based soup with spaetzle-like
dumplings, and sarma, a beef- and rice-stuffed cabbage roll smothered in tomato
sauce. They learned enough English to help Bosnian refugees apply for driver's
licenses and sort out utility bills.

A portrait of Stari Majdan, the village where Mr. Grbic fished for trout and
gathered mushrooms as a boy, hangs on a back wall. Bosnian families stage
weddings in the adjacent banquet hall.

Despite Mr. Grbic's pride in his place of birth, he rejects attempts, however
slight, to define his work and his family as anything but American.

''We don't serve Bosnian food,'' he said as his wife stacked a table with
grilled pljeskavica, patties of veal, stuffed with feta cheese, and cevapi,
small beef sausages, served between slices of lepinja. ''We buy our chicken
here, we buy our veal here, we buy everything here. We cook American food.''

Notions of identity are complicated for Bosnians. They come from a land with a
long history of successful adaptation to new regimes and were challenged by
their sponsors to embrace American mores quickly. Yet the memories of
persecution are tangible.

Bosnians are anxious about inclusion, said Ben Moore, director of the Bosnian
Memory Project at Fontbonne University in St. Louis. ''One argument the Serbs
made during the genocide was that Bosnians, which is to say Muslims, were not
European. Bosnians have had to continually prove that they are.''

Some locals became acquainted with community members by patronizing the bakeries
and restaurants that began to pop up near Bevo Mill.

But others were put off when they saw recent arrivals slaughter and roast whole
lambs or smoke sides of beef in their backyards. That's less likely to happen
these days, although some families still gather on weekends in parks south of
town to roast lambs on spits, powered by repurposed windshield wiper motors.

''We had this whole 'Bosnians are eating dogs' phase,'' recalled Anna Crosslin,
president of the International Institute. ''Every week a little old lady called
to say she saw Muffy hanging by a rope in a neighbor's backyard. You would have
thought they'd never seen a lamb. But we got through it.''

A number of Bosnian groceries now operate here, selling (among other items)
Cockta, a cola imported from Slovenia, and suho meso, smoked beef made by
companies in Illinois and California. While many Bosnian-owned restaurants here
stock imported products, which they sell to a mostly Bosnian clientele, they
have adopted American tropes and built American clienteles.

Mr. X Pizza, owned by Damir Islamovic, sells to a customer base that is about 20
percent Bosnian. The only clue to his origins is that some pizzas come topped
with suho meso, popular among Bosnian Muslims who avoid pork-based pepperoni.

Cultural crossovers occur often in the small family-owned cafes and bakeries
that anchor strip malls south of the city, where a new generation of Bosnians
hone American identities along with ethnic pride.

One recent afternoon at Berix Restaurant and Deli, four young men, all of whom
migrated from Bosnia to St. Louis before they began grade school, drank cans of
Red Bull and bottles of Orangina. They talked about Dino Merlin, the Bosnian pop
star who recently performed in St. Louis. And they talked about lunch.

''Our food is like American food,'' said Ajdin Bajramovic, who came here in 1995
at age 4. ''We take American food and blow it up,'' he said, gesturing to a
pljeskavica of pounded beef and onions, served on a round of lepinja with the
circumference of an old LP record. ''We make everything bigger.''

Earlier that morning, a truck driver unloaded a pallet stacked with bags of
bread flour at Basic Bakery, which supplies lepinja to the Gyro Company and 14
other restaurants in town.

Alaga Basic, the proprietor, calls the bread he bakes with that flour lepinja.
But his daughter, Najda Basic, who came to the United States at age 4, uses
another name.

For Ms. Basic, 18, bread is not a totem of the Bosnia her family left behind,
but a product of America, where her family now makes its home.

''If I want people to understand what it looks like and what it tastes like, I
have to use a word that everyone recognizes,'' she said. So she uses an Italian
term for a comparable bread, popular among middle-class consumers.

''I call it ciabatta.''

Recipe: Bosnian Bread

Time: 1 hour 25 minutes, plus 4 to 10 hours for rising

8 cups (42 ounces) bread flour

1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon (16 grams) salt

1 1/2 teaspoons (6 grams) dry yeast

Butter, for greasing pans

Spray oil or vegetable oil.

1. With your hands, mix together the flour, salt, yeast and 4 1/2 cups warm
water (115 degrees) in a very large bowl until the batter is mixed thoroughly.
It will look more like thick cake batter than dough and will be very sticky; do
not knead.

2. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise at room temperature for 4 to 10 hours.

3. Butter two 9-inch-by-5-inch metal loaf pans. Quickly stir down the batter,
and divide evenly between the pans. Spray or very lightly brush tops of loaves
with oil. Let them rest at room temperature for 30 minutes.

4. Put the pans into the middle rack of a cold oven, then turn to 500 degrees.
After 30 minutes, reduce heat to 300 degrees and bake until risen and light
golden, an additional 40 to 45 minutes. Cool loaves thoroughly before serving.

Yield: 2 loaves.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TOGETHER AGAIN: Customers celebrating a family reunion at Grbic
Restaurant in St. Louis.(D1)
FAMILIAR STYLE: Left, Ermin Grbic working in his family's restaurant in St.
Louis. Above, cevapi (beef sausages) served on lepinja.
IT'S STILL BREAD: Right, Alaga Basic and his daughter, Najda, at their Basic
Bakery. Above, the bakery's lepinja, which Najda calls by another name:
ciabatta.
FAVORITES: Left, at Cafe Milano, customers cheering Bosnia during the European
Cup. Above, a Bosnian dessert made with chocolate, walnuts and topped with
coconut.
  AT THE BUTCHER'S: Above, at South City Meat and Deli, where the owner, Mirza
Bajric, weighs a portion. Right, the meat case stacked with veal sausages and
various cuts. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNIFER SILVERBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D5)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

2,901 Arrested in Crackdown on Criminal Immigrants

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 504 words


WASHINGTON -- The Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency announced on
Wednesday that it had arrested 2,901 immigrants who have criminal records,
highlighting the Obama administration's policy of focusing on such people while
putting less emphasis on deporting illegal immigrants who pose no demonstrated
threat to public safety.

Officials from the agency portrayed the seven-day sweep, called Operation Cross
Check, as the largest enforcement and removal operation in its history. It
involved arrests in all 50 states of criminal offenders of 115 nationalities,
including people convicted of manslaughter, armed robbery, aggravated assault
and sex crimes.

''These are not people who are making a positive contribution to their
communities,'' said the agency's director, John Morton. ''They are not the kind
of people we want walking our streets.''

More than 1,600 of those arrested had been convicted of a felony. The remainder
had a misdemeanor conviction for matters like theft, forgery and driving while
intoxicated, the agency said. Those arrested included illegal immigrants and
lawful resident noncitizens who had been convicted of crimes that made them
eligible to be deported.

The agency did not release the names of all the people arrested. But a sampling
that showed the geographical breadth of the operation included one person from
the New York City area: Virgilio Lopez-Ruiz, a 54-year-old Dominican who was
living in the Bronx. He had been convicted on Nov. 16, 1988, of second-degree
attempted murder, it said. It did not provide his immigration status.

Mr. Morton issued a memo in June suggesting that the agency should place a
priority on deporting noncitizen criminals like drug dealers and gang members,
as well as people who have flagrantly violated immigration laws, for example by
ignoring deportation orders or re-entering the country after being removed.
Under that approach, it would give less emphasis to removing illegal immigrants
who are not a public safety or national security threat.

In August, the White House essentially ratified that approach, announcing that
the Department of Homeland Security would, on a case-by-case basis, suspend
deportation proceedings against people who posed no public safety threat. The
policy shift has been criticized by some Republicans as a backdoor form of the
so-called Dream Act -- a bill, which has stalled in Congress, that would provide
relief to illegal immigrants who were brought to the United States as children
and who want to attend college or join the armed forces.

But Mr. Morton said Wednesday that there were far more illegal immigrants in the
United States than the agency has the resources to remove. He said that the
agency has been deporting about 390,000 people annually for the past several
years, a record level, and that the question is who those people should be. In
2008, he said, about a third were criminal offenders, but this year about half
have been, and the majority of the remainder have been flagrant violators of
immigration law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Change, Mayor Backs Obstacle to Deportation

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 663 words


In a significant reversal, the Bloomberg administration said Friday that it
would support a City Council bill that would hamper federal authorities' ability
to detain, and eventually deport, foreign-born inmates on Rikers Island who are
about to be released.

The decision is an important victory for the Council speaker, Christine C.
Quinn, the sponsor of the bill, which is now almost certain to become law, and
for immigrant advocates, who have long assailed the city's cooperation with
immigration agents based at the prison.

Corrections Department officials routinely share lists of foreign-born inmates
with immigration authorities, who then take custody of, detain and deport
thousands of people who had been charged with misdemeanors and felonies. The
arrangement is common across the country.

The bill would not end the practice, known as the criminal detainer program, in
New York City. But it would prevent corrections officials from transferring
inmates to federal custody, even immigrants in the United States illegally, if
prosecutors declined to press charges against them, and if they had no
convictions or outstanding warrants, had not previously been ordered deported
and did not show up on the terrorist watch list.

As a result, the immigrants would be released if they were not defendants in
criminal cases, regardless of whether federal officials wanted them deported.

''The criminal detainer program had become the immigrant dragnet program,'' Ms.
Quinn said. ''We don't support that.''

Ms. Quinn, a likely mayoral candidate in 2013, said the bill could keep hundreds
of people, perhaps as many as 1,000, from being deported every year.

In the past, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his advisers have defended the
city's cooperation with immigration officials as a matter of public safety. But
after extensive negotiations with Ms. Quinn's office, the administration decided
to support the bill.

''Our goal is always to protect public safety and maintain national security,
while ensuring New York remains the most immigrant-friendly city in the
nation,'' said John Feinblatt, the mayor's chief policy adviser. ''This strikes
the right balance.''

Luis Martinez, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement, declined to
comment on the legislation.

Mr. Bloomberg's decision comes as the Obama administration has placed a priority
on deporting noncitizen criminals who pose a threat to the public, while
focusing less on illegal immigrants who do not pose a threat.

Supporters of more restrictive immigration laws have criticized the Council bill
as a get-out-of-jail-free card for illegal immigrants. Jessica Vaughan of the
Center for Immigration Studies in Washington has said it amounts to ''playing
Russian roulette with public safety.''

Councilwoman Melissa Mark-Viverito, a Democrat who represents East Harlem and a
co-sponsor of the bill, dismissed that charge, saying the measure would affect
only ''people who do not pose a risk to safety and security.''

Ms. Mark-Viverito also said that curtailing the program would save the city a
significant amount of money, possibly tens of millions of dollars.

Ms. Quinn and Ms. Mark-Viverito had planned a rally on Sunday at an Upper
Manhattan church to draw support for the legislation. The rally now will most
likely be more of a celebration, Ms. Quinn's office said.

The City Council will hold a hearing on the issue on Monday, when Robert M.
Morgenthau, the former longtime Manhattan district attorney, is expected to
testify in support of the bill. The Council is expected to vote on it before the
end of the year.

Advocates for immigrants hailed the mayor's decision as an important step toward
protecting the rights of foreign-born New Yorkers.

''There's really an evolving consensus about the corrosive impact of an
aggressive deportation strategy,'' said Andrew Friedman of Make the Road New
York. ''This is a clear statement that it is bad for New York in so many ways to
facilitate the deportation of New Yorkers.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 1, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Many Immigrants Pull Children From Schools

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 272 words


Hispanic students are vanishing from public schools in the wake of a court
ruling on Wednesday that upheld the state's tough new law cracking down on
illegal immigration. Education officials say scores of immigrant families have
withdrawn their children or kept them home this week, afraid that sending them
to school would draw attention from the authorities.

There are no precise statewide numbers. But several districts with large
immigrant enrollments reported a sudden exodus of children of Hispanic parents,
some of whom told officials that they would leave the state to avoid trouble
with the law, which requires schools to check students' immigration status. In
one of the state's largest cities, Huntsville, the superintendent went on a
Spanish-language television show on Thursday to try to calm worries. ''Our
students do not have anything to fear,'' the superintendent, Casey Wardynski,
said in halting Spanish. He said the state was only trying to compile
statistics. The police, he insisted, were not getting involved in schools. In
Montgomery County, more than 200 Hispanic students were absent on Thursday. In
Albertville, 35 students withdrew in one day. And about 20 students in Shelby
County, in suburban Birmingham, withdrew or told teachers that they were
leaving. Local and state officials are pleading with immigrant families to keep
their children enrolled. The law does not bar anyone from school, they say, and
neither students nor parents will be arrested for trying to get an education.
The Obama administration filed court documents on Friday announcing its plans to
appeal the ruling that upheld the law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 5, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Play Key Role As Entrepreneurs in City

BYLINE: By PATRICK WALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 991 words


Any taxi-riding, bodega-shopping, laundromat-using New Yorker knows that
immigrants own many of the businesses that make New York tick. Now a new study
shows that while immigrants constitute just over a third of the city's
population, they make up nearly half of the city's small-business owners.

The study, published Monday by the Fiscal Policy Institute and based on census
data, found that more than 69,000 New York City business owners - about 48
percent of the total - are foreign born. These immigrant entrepreneurs hail from
around the world and run companies in every sector of the economy. But in
certain lines of business, including dry cleaning, taxi services and grocery
stores, the study shows that immigrant owners dominate.

''When you think of New York neighborhoods, you think about the stores and
restaurants and groceries,'' said David Dyssegaard Kallick, a senior fellow at
the institute - a union-supported, nonpartisan research and advocacy group.
''Those are the kinds of small businesses where immigrants are playing a
particularly strong role.''

The study (pdf) is based on a five-year sample of data from the 2005-9 American
Community Survey. It defines small business owners as self-employed people with
incorporated businesses, which excludes corporations and nonprofits.

The country whose natives make up the largest share of immigrant business owners
is China, with about 9 percent of the total, followed by the Dominican Republic,
Korea, India, Italy, Greece, Colombia, countries of the former Soviet Union,
Israel and the Palestinian territories and Jamaica. Another 55 percent of
foreign-born owners come from other countries.

Immigrant business owners represent a majority in several industry sectors,
including transportation and warehousing, retail trade, construction, wholesale
trade and manufacturing. Within those broad sectors, foreign-born ownership of
certain types of businesses dwarfs United States-born ownership. A full 90
percent of the city's dry cleaning and taxi service owners are immigrants, as
are 84 percent of grocery store owners and 75 percent of child day care owners.

Immigrants also have a strong presence in higher-skilled professions. Among
computer systems design, architectural and engineering businesses, 40 percent of
owners are foreign born.

The study notes that while the percentage of immigrant business owners is
greater than the share of immigrants in the overall population, it is similar to
the share of immigrants in the labor force, which is 46 percent. This means that
New York's immigrants are more likely than their American-born peers both to own
small businesses and to be in the labor force.

A 2008 analysis by the federal Small Business Administration found that, across
the country, immigrants are nearly 30 percent more likely to start a business
than are nonimmigrants.

Despite their numbers, immigrant entrepreneurs must navigate a sea of obstacles
beyond the normal challenges that all small business owners face. One recent
study showed that immigrants in New York were less likely than nonimmigrants to
own a business that has been running for more than three-and-a-half years, and
more likely to have shut down a business within the past year.

One commonly cited hurdle is a lack of access to the capital needed to start or
expand a company. While most banks hesitate to loan money to any small business,
which can be a risky, time-consuming process, they are especially reluctant to
lend to immigrants, who often have little collateral and bad or nonexistent
credit histories, experts say.

The situation is made worse for immigrants when banks send loan applications to
distant offices to be evaluated, said Paul Quintero, CEO of ACCION USA, a New
York-based microlender.

''You put an application in and it's processed by someone in Omaha,'' said Mr.
Quintero. This disadvantages immigrants, who need ''people that can look into
the white of your eyes, speak your language and understand where you're coming
from.''

The average ACCION small business loan is about $7,000 and, in New York City, a
majority of borrowers are immigrants.

In Crown Heights, Brooklyn, Abel Cherubin, a native of Haiti, has prepared taxes
for a local clientele -- a mix of working-class blacks, Latinos and West Indians
-- from a rented storefront for more than a decade. But his client base has
shrunk to 300 customers from a peak of 800 and he has had to lay off his last
few employees. He has fallen $6,000 behind on the rent and received an eviction
notice last month.

''Maybe three, four months I could be out of business,'' said Mr. Cherubin, 55,
who during the recession has borrowed money from a friend rather than approach a
lender, after being turned down for loans in the past. ''That's my worry: I'm
afraid one day I won't have that door to be open.''

Another major barrier for foreign-born entrepreneurs is confusion about the
city's myriad business regulations. Whether because of inexperience, language
problems or reliance on informal business networks, immigrants often
misunderstand or are unaware of the rules regarding tax filing, permits and
practices.

For instance, many ground-floor merchants in Chinatown do not realize they are
responsible for cleaning the sidewalks outside their shops until they are fined
for noncompliance, said Larry Mei, a business counselor at the Chinatown
Manpower Project.

''The business here is more regulated,'' Mr. Mei said. ''In China, they don't
have that many agencies that look after the businesses.''

This year, the city introduced three new initiatives intended to support
immigrant business owners. They include a competition that awarded funds to
organizations that assist foreign-born entrepreneurs, free business classes to
be offered in five non-English languages and an expo this month that will
showcase immigrant-owned food manufacturing businesses.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 6, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cold and White: Immigrants' Landscape

BYLINE: By PAUL BRUNICK

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE NINE
MUSES'; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 396 words


The British director John Akomfrah's ''Nine Muses'' is an unclassifiable collage
of archival footage, canonical literature and severe winter landscapes.
Conceptually ambitious and oblique in the extreme, it's an experimental work
that is difficult to unpack critically but impossible to engage without context.

First and foremost ''The Nine Muses'' is a monument to the English immigrant
experience in the decades after World War II, when the British Nationality Act
of 1948 (a response by Parliament to postwar labor shortages) ushered in
successive waves of migrant workers from former British commonwealths,
particularly those in the Caribbean and the Indian subcontinent.

Found footage of steamship arrivals, tenement neighborhoods and angry nativist
backlash is intercut with high-definition video shot in the snowy remotes of
contemporary Alaska. A recurring image of bleak vistas traversed by faceless,
parka-clad figures suggests a poetic corollary to how England might have felt to
new arrivals: very cold, very lonely and very white.

The title ''Nine Muses'' derives from its overarching structural conceit, a
series of chapter headings dedicated to each of the ancient Greek muses.
Excerpts lifted from landmarks of Western literature, running from the epic
tradition of Homer and Milton to the high-modernist experiments of James Joyce
and T. S. Eliot, are read in voice-over.

Mr. Akomfrah's film checks off many artistic boxes, from the nonnarrative
formalism of the cinematic avant-garde through the literary tradition of English
heritage films to the political engagement of postcolonial critique. Though it
has something for everyone, it all adds up to very little. The placement of
chapter divisions seems as arbitrary as Mr. Akomfrah's inert juxtapositions of
image and text. Themes don't develop so much as they endlessly repeat, nor do
they gain much through extended duration. It fails to engage either the
intellect or the senses.

At once austere and conceptually overwrought, ''The Nine Muses'' is both too
much and not enough.

THE NINE MUSES

Opens on Thursday in Manhattan.

Directed by John Akomfrah; director of photography, Dewald Aukema; edited by
Mikka Leskinen and Ben Hunt; produced by Lina Gopaul and David Lawson; released
by Icarus Films. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, Museum of Modern Art.
Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. This film is not rated.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: One of the bleak vistas in ''The Nine Muses,'' a film by the
British director John Akomfrah. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ICARUS FILMS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 19, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 612 words


International

SCIENTISTS SEE PROMISE

IN VACCINE FOR MALARIA

Preliminary results from the trial of a malaria vaccine show that it protected
nearly half of the children who received it from bouts of serious malaria. The
vaccine has been in development for more than 25 years, initially for the
American military and now with most of its support from the Bill and Melinda
Gates Foundation. Page A4

NEW BELLS FOR NOTRE DAME

The four major bells atop the northern towers of the Cathedral of Notre-Dame in
Paris will be melted down and replaced by nine new ones intended to recreate the
sound of Notre Dame's original 17th-century bells. Page A6

STRATEGY FOR CYBERWARFARE

Gen. C. Robert Kehler, the four-star Air Force general who oversees Pentagon
efforts in cyberspace acknowledged that the Defense Department had more work to
do in clarifying the military's doctrine for waging computer warfare. Page A12

KENYA REASSURES SOMALIA

Kenyan officials made a surprise visit to Somalia to reassure the weak Somali
government that Kenya was not harboring intentions to occupy Somalia, despite
sending hundreds of troops across the border over the weekend. Page A15

National

LATINOS SAID TO BEAR WEIGHT

OF DEPORTATION PROGRAM

A deportation program that is central to the Obama administration's immigration
enforcement strategy has led to the disproportionate removal of Latino
immigrants and to arrests by immigration authorities of hundreds of United
States citizens, according to a report by two law schools using new, in-depth
official data on deportation cases. Page A16

PARENTS URGED TO LIMIT TV

The American Academy of Pediatrics warned that parents of infants and toddlers
should limit the time their children spend in front of televisions, computers,
self-described educational games and even grown-up shows playing in the
background. Video screen time leaves less room for educational activities, like
interacting with other people and playing, the group said. Page A18

New York

CITY'S TREE CAMPAIGN

GOES TOO FAR FOR SOME

Halfway through the city's Million Trees campaign, even supporters worry about
dead wood and other future hazards if maintenance money is lacking. Residents
worry that the saplings will eventually lead to buckling sidewalks, dangling
limbs, and leaf litter, among other things. Page A22

Business

BOOKSTORES DROP COMICS

OVER DEAL WITH AMAZON

Amazon.com, seeking to make its coming Kindle Fire tablet as appealing as
possible, negotiated a deal with DC Comics for the exclusive digital rights to a
hundred popular graphic novels. After the deal was made, Barnes & Noble and
Books-a-Million removed its graphic novels from their shelves. Page B1

Sports

LAST-MINUTE TRADE SENDS

CARSON PALMER TO OAKLAND

The Cincinnati Bengals and the Oakland Raiders rocked the league with one of the
biggest deadline deals in history, with quarterback Carson Palmer moving to the
Raiders in exchange for a first-round draft pick, and another pick that could
become a first-rounder. Page B16

Arts

AN ADMIRING LOOK BACK

AT A GADFLY OF THE '60S

A new film, ''Paul Goodman Changed My Life'' pays tribute to a man whose name
was once a household word. His current obscurity is something this documentary,
directed by Jonathan Lee and including eloquent testimony from friends, family
and admirers, is determined to overcome, writes A.O. Scott. Page C1

Dining

JACQUES PePIN DEMONSTRATES

HIS COOKING TECHNIQUES

Jacques Pepin focuses on the details when it comes to his craft and demonstrates
how to best sharpen a knife, chop an onion and make an omelet. This month marks
the arrival of ''Essential Pepin,'' a cookbook that gathers hit recipes from the
arc of the chef's career. Page D1

OP-ED

Thomas L. Friedman PAGE A25

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Artists and Performers, Britain Puts Out an Unwelcome Mat

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words


LONDON -- Britain is turning away countless non-European writers, artists and
performers at its borders, a result of cumbersome and unevenly interpreted
immigration rules that are making it increasingly difficult for many arts
organizations to include foreigners in their programs.

The system, intended to limit the influx of foreigners at a time of economic and
security tensions, seems straightforward enough on paper. While some artists
qualify for ''temporary worker'' status, the rules are intended to ensure that
those who make brief visits for exhibitions, festivals, readings and the like do
not earn money or try to remain in the country. But they have proved so onerous
and so open to subjective misreading that even people who have been coming to
Britain for years are suddenly being refused entry.

''Artists and authors are being treated as if they are potential economic
migrants or terrorists,'' said Jonathan Heawood, director of the literary
human-rights group English PEN, which has been pressing the government to loosen
the rules. ''Essentially the government is trying to crowbar them into a system
that wasn't designed for them and that sees them as a threat and not a
benefit.''

Recent victims of the system include the Russian-born, New York-residing beat
poet Alex Galper, who was turned away when he planned to read for no fee at a
charity event; the Georgian artist Gela Patashuri, who was commissioned to
produce a work for a London gallery but whose visa was denied because the
authorities said they were ''not satisfied'' with his qualifications; and the
renowned Iranian director Abbas Kiarostami, who canceled plans to direct ''Cosi
Fan Tutte'' at the English National Opera after his visa was granted and then
withdrawn, and he was told to re-apply and to give his fingerprints again.

Britain is not the only Western country with tough borders. The United States
has a notoriously arduous visa application system that has led to numerous
well-publicized cases of artists and performers being refused entry.

But in Europe, Britain stands out for the strictness of its policies and the
apparent inconsistencies in the way it enforces them.

In 2008 the government, under political pressure to curtail non-European
immigration, introduced a tough points-based visa system. Artists and performers
applying for temporary worker status now have to prove, among other things, that
they have the equivalent of $:800 (about $1,250) in a bank and that it has been
there for 90 consecutive days; pay nonrefundable application fees of hundreds of
pounds; and find established arts organizations that can pay additional hefty
fees, sponsor them and take responsibility for them while they are in Britain.

A separate category, for ''entertainers,'' requires that applicants promise not
to make money in Britain or perform -- even for no fee -- at for-profit events.

''We expect individuals to meet our entry requirements,'' said a spokesman for
the Home Office, speaking on condition that his name not be used, according to
government policy. ''For too long immigration has been out of control, and this
government is committed to having a system which benefits the best and the
brightest but curbs the number of people who seek to abuse the system.''

But the rules are onerous and perplexing. Visa applicants are required to
surrender their passports for weeks at a time -- a difficult proposition for
people from, say, African countries without British consulates, who have to
travel abroad and wait around while their cases are considered.

Tiny groups wanting to sponsor unknown artists often cannot afford the fees or
meet the government's definition of a bona fide organization. Artists without
sponsors -- novelists or painters who want to spend some time producing their
work in Britain, for instance -- are often unable to come unless they lie and
say they are tourists.

There seems to be little consistency in whether or not applications are
approved. The celebrated Indian musician Rajeswar Bhattacharya, for instance,
has been coming to Britain annually since 1996 -- always receiving a visa -- to
give workshops and perform. This year he was scheduled to take part in a
festival celebrating the 150th anniversary of the birth of the Bengali poet and
cultural ambassador Rabindranath Tagore. Mr. Bhattacharya's application was all
but identical to last year's, but it was rejected. British officials ruled that
because he planned to teach as well as perform -- something he has always done
-- he would be working as a ''music teacher'' and was ineligible.

The rules also stymie travelers coming for obscure but passionately attended
events. The Argentine tango dancers Ismael Ludman and Maria Mondino, for
instance, had hoped to dance, for no fee, for several dozen people at a village
hall in Scotland, a brief stop in a European tour. Refused entry when officials
questioned the nature of the event, they protested on the Web, posting a video
of themselves tangoing at the airport.

The American photographer Alec Soth, meanwhile, ran into trouble when he told
immigration officials he had been invited to take photographs to be displayed at
the Brighton Photo Biennale. He finally got into the country after hours of
interrogation -- but only after promising not to take photographs. (His
7-year-old daughter, traveling with him, took them instead.)

Even established artists at Springsteen-esque fame levels are required to obtain
temporary worker visas if they come to Britain for paid engagements. While stars
like Bruce Springsteen have managers and agents to handle such matters, this
rule often trips up smaller-scale artists and performers from the United States
and other countries whose citizens don't need visas to enter Britain as
tourists. ''They assume that because of the visa waiver program they'll have no
problem and so they just turn up,'' said Robert Sharp, campaigns manager at
English PEN. ''But then an official spots their tuba or their cello or their
paintbrushes and says, 'You're working, get back on the plane.' ''

Musicians say the mere sight of their instruments provokes instant skepticism at
the border. Last year, arriving at Heathrow en route to Leeds, the American
cellist Kristin Ostling was met by a wall of questions like: Do you intend to
play that cello? And: No, really, who is paying you?

Ms. Ostling, a member of the Carpe Diem String Quartet in Ohio, explained that
she had paid her own way and was performing free at an academic conference on
the Russian composer Sergey Taneyev. But after eight hours Ms. Ostling (and her
cello, which needs its own seat) were put on a plane and sent back to Chicago.

''Customs said to me that we should have advertised for anyone from the E.U. who
was willing to play the music of Taneyev for nothing,'' said Derek B. Scott, the
head of the University of Leeds School of Music and the host of the conference,
describing his subsequent conversations with the authorities.

Even as she was being sent back, Ms. Ostling's three Carpe Diem colleagues flew
to Heathrow to try their own luck at getting in.

Korine Fujiwara, the group's viola player, sailed through. But officials
mistrusted the motives of the violinists, John Ewing and Charles Wetherbee, and
took them aside for extra questioning.

''He was trying to get us to admit we were there to work,'' Mr. Ewing said of
one official. ''He kept saying, 'Why do you have your violins?,' and we kept
saying, 'We're musicians.' He basically didn't accept our story that we were
going to an academic conference.''

Eventually they got through and made it to Leeds. But they could not play
without Ms. Ostling.

Back in Chicago, meanwhile, with a passport reflecting her shameful new status
as a British reject, a weary Ms. Ostling pleaded her case at the British
consulate. And that was when the full incoherence of the system became clear.

''I said, 'Is there some kind of special visa that I should have?' '' she
related. ''They said: 'No, we can't give you a visa because you don't need one.
Immigration was wrong.' ''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the American string quartet Carpe Diem had
contrasting experiences at the airport when they tried to attend a conference in
England. John Ewing, far left, and Charles Wetherbee were grilled by officials
before being allowed in. Korine Fujiwara, second from left, sailed through.
Kristin Ostling was denied entry after eight hours of questioning. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY KARINA WETHERBEE)
The American photographer Alec Soth was let in but prohibited from taking
photos. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEC SOTH, COURTESY OF SOTH STUDIO)
 Britain withdrew its visa for the Iranian director Abbas Kiarostami and told
him to re-apply and to resubmit his fingerprints. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURENT THURIN
NAL/IFC FILMS) (A4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 23, 2011 Sunday
                                National Edition

Fake Lawyers and Notaries Prey on Immigrants

BYLINE: By JESSICA WEISBERG and BRIDGET O'SHEA.

jessicaweisberg@gmail.com boshea@chicagonewscoop.org

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE;
Pg. 25B

LENGTH: 926 words


On May 6, just hours before his asylum hearing, Mario de la Rosa, a Mexican
immigrant living in Waukegan, waited in the parking lot of a CVS pharmacy for
the person representing him in his case, Margaret Carrasco, to arrive. She never
did.

Eventually, Mr. De la Rosa said, he drove to Ms. Carrasco's home, where she
handed him a messy stack of forms, all filled out in English and unintelligible
to Mr. De la Rosa, who speaks only Spanish. Ms. Carrasco apologized for being
too ill to appear in court, he recalled. He believed her. He had no reason not
to.

He said he felt lucky to work with Ms. Carrasco, a bilingual immigrant activist
in Waukegan and, he thought, a lawyer. She even allowed clients to pay her $500
fee in installments.

But sick or not, Ms. Carrasco, 51, may have had a more pressing reason to avoid
representing Mr. De la Rosa in court: she does not have the proper legal
accreditation to do so. On Oct. 14, Attorney General Lisa Madigan filed suit
against Ms. Carrasco, accusing her of misrepresenting herself as an immigration
lawyer and charging her clients ''unconscionable fees'' for services she did not
even render.

Ms. Carrasco, who could face more than $100,000 in penalties, did not respond to
text, telephone, Facebook or e-mail messages seeking comment.

She is one of many people who are thought to profit unduly from immigrants'
vulnerable combination of low legal literacy and high-stakes situations. Recent
changes in federal immigration policy, coupled with a downturn in the economy,
may have created a need for more, and more affordable, legal assistance,
according to immigration activists.

President Obama's ''prosecutorial discretion'' initiative, announced in August,
created a working group to review the 300,000 deportation cases currently before
immigration courts and to suspend or halt proceedings for immigrants who have
not been convicted of serious crimes.

Caroline Schoenberger, an immigration lawyer at the Chicago Legal Clinic and the
former Chicago commissioner of consumer services, said many people found the new
program confusing.

''People keep calling about the 'new law' and about applying for work visas,''
Ms. Schoenberger said. ''They think that deportation has been halted
completely.''

More than a million people have been deported since President Obama took office
three years ago, compared with 1.57 million people deported during President
Bush's eight years in office. New federal programs like Secure Communities,
which enables local law enforcement officials to check a person's immigration
status, have left many immigrants in need of legal assistance. That is what
happened to Mr. De la Rosa, who was pulled over for a traffic violation, then
turned over to federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement authorities when he
was found to be in the country illegally.

Notaries are particularly well positioned to capitalize on confusion among
immigrants, especially those from Latin America -- the largest Chicago immigrant
population -- as notaries there have considerably more legal agency than they do
in the United States.

Victims have mistakenly assumed that a ''notario'' can represent them legally,
advocates say. Notaries have such cachet in this community that some people
claim to be notaries public when they are not, to draw clients. Ms. Carrasco is
accused in the lawsuit of identifying herself as a ''notario publico'' as well
as a lawyer; in fact, though she had a notary license, it expired in July 2010.

There are more and more people in deportation proceedings, said Mony
Ruiz-Velasco, a lawyer with the National Immigrant Justice Center who has
recently taken on Mr. De la Rosa's case. ''People want to hear good news, and
legitimate immigration lawyers can't always give them good news.''

Scams preying on the fears of immigrants are not limited to the Hispanic
community. Last month, Ms. Madigan filed suit against Vytautas Lekarauskas, 26,
who faces up to $100,000 in penalties. He is accused of running a fraudulent Web
site that looked like an official government agency and offered fee-based help
with passport, green card and citizenship applications.

Mr. Lekarauskas claimed on his Web site to be a lawyer educated at the
University of Chicago. According to the complaint, he never attended the
University of Chicago or any other law school. Mr. Lekarauskas could not be
reached for comment.

The nature of these small, easily mobile businesses make them difficult to
prosecute. ''They set up shop someplace, and then they'll disappear,'' said Fred
Tsao, policy director for the Illinois Coalition of Immigrant and Refugee
Rights.

Scams often go undetected because the victims are reluctant to seek help from
the authorities. ''They might know where to go, but despite the best outreach
and assurances by the authorities, simply might not trust them,'' Mr. Tsao said.

In 2004, Chicago collected $200,000 from Antonio Rodriguez Perez, a local notary
who had taken money from clients without providing promised services, and wrote
letters to each of his victims explaining how to receive recompense for damages.
''Very few people took advantage of it,'' said Ms. Schoenberger, who oversaw the
prosecution of the case. ''People were afraid.''

Ms. Carrasco has been preying on the immigrant community since 2006, according
to the attorney general's office.

Mr. De la Rosa, the sole financial provider for a stepson with cerebral palsy
who Mr. De la Rosa said could not receive proper medical treatment in Mexico,
will have his case retried. ''I'm grateful I have another chance,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mario de la Rosa was a victim of Margaret Carrasco, who is
accused of posing as an immigration lawyer. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW A. NELLES FOR
CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 29, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Republicans in Congress Are Pushing Steps to Ease Immigration

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1149 words


WASHINGTON -- Representative Tim Griffin, a Republican freshman from Arkansas
with a university in his district, supports legislation that would make it
easier for foreign math and science professionals to get legal residency.

Representative Bobby Schilling, Republican of Illinois, is resisting intense
pressure to support a House bill that would require employers to verify the
legal status of their workers because he is concerned that businesses would be
unduly burdened.

Senator Mike Lee of Utah, one of the most conservative members of the chamber,
recently teamed with Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat, on a
bill that would provide three-year residential visas to foreign home buyers who
invest at least $500,000.

While the Republican presidential campaign trail bristles with talk of moats,
militarization and electrified fences when it comes to illegal immigration, the
view among some Congressional Republicans has become more nuanced and measured.

Now many Republican freshmen, lacking the scar tissue of previous Congressional
attempts to make sweeping changes in immigration law, are advocating that policy
be changed in small, bite-size pieces that could help bring order to the system
and redefine their party's increasingly anti-immigration image, even as they
maintain a strong push for better federal border security.

The move comes as some leading Republican voices are warning that the view of
their party among Hispanics is doing significant political damage and causing
economic disruption.

''It does cause me a great deal of concern,'' said Mark Shurtleff, the
Republican attorney general of Utah, where the Republican-controlled Legislature
recently passed a law to give some protections to illegal workers who find
employment in the state. ''The rhetoric I hear from the Republican candidates,
and that state legislatures that are passing enforcement-only provisions, are
both damaging the economy. We ought not to be doing things to hurt the economy
right now, and I think this hurts us politically.''

In addition to worrying that Hispanics are turning away from their party, some
Republicans feel the heat from local employers, who need immigrant labor to fill
jobs they have repeatedly been unable to fill with American workers. Others
still worry about the drain of American-trained math and science students back
to their home countries, where they will compete with Americans in building
businesses.

''We Republicans are hearing more and more from businesses and the agricultural
communities that this system isn't working,'' said Representative Raul R.
Labrador of Idaho. ''The subtle difference that I see right now is that more and
more Republicans are saying that, yes, we need border enforcement, but we also
need to create a guest-worker program that works at the same time.''

Mr. Labrador has a bill that would allow foreign students with advanced degrees
in certain high-tech and science fields to be immediately eligible for a green
card if they are offered a job here.

Immigration, one of the country's most incendiary policy issues, has long been a
painful thorn for Republicans, who have sought to balance a desire to attract
Hispanics to the party with the powerful antipathy toward illegal immigration
among some voters that has animated every political race of the last decade.

Aware of those pitfalls, Republicans new to the Hill are thinking small.

''I think there's is some low-hanging fruit on the immigration debate,'' said
Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican and conservative favorite. The son
of Cuban immigrants, he supports a visa program for some high-skilled workers
and a limited one for agricultural workers and some students who came into the
country illegally as children.

Without question, most House Republicans, including freshmen, have rallied
behind bills to deter illegal immigration and made public statements that
suggest their views are not open for interpretation or negotiation.
Representative Mo Brooks, for instance, recently told a television reporter back
home in Alabama that when it came to illegal immigrants, ''as your congressman
on the House floor, I will do anything short of shooting them.''

But members are increasingly supporting limited immigration measures that center
on a discrete issue, like shortening the green card process, which can now take
years, for science and math Ph.D. candidates who wish to teach or work in the
United States. The limited number of green cards for such professionals, and
country quotas, has caused a backlog of them trying to enter the United States,
with the majority from India or China.

''I just thought this was something that should be a little less controversial
and have bipartisan support,'' Mr. Labrador said of his bill. ''One of the most
surprising things is that some of the freshmen are interested in talking about
immigration in a positive way.''

In Arkansas, illegal immigration remains a hot-button issue, and Mr. Griffin
supports tough border control. However, math and science professionals ''are not
people who snuck over in the middle of the night and crept over to a school and
got a degree,'' he said.

Officials at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock have leaned on lawmakers
like Mr. Griffin for years about the problem. ''To increase entrepreneurs, we
need sufficient number of people with science and math backgrounds,'' said
Michael Gealt, the dean of the university's College of Science and Mathematics,
where the doctoral program is 70 percent to 80 percent foreign students.

Immigration politics, he said, have complicated his efforts. ''It has been my
observation,'' Mr. Gealt said, ''that it is hard for lawmakers to differentiate
between problems of people coming across the border and people coming for jobs
where we absolutely need their expertise.''

There are also bills to address illegal immigration that some conservative
Republicans oppose. A high-profile measure that would require private businesses
to use a federal program that checks the immigration status of all job
applicants recently cleared the House Judiciary Committee, but has since stalled
because too many members, pressured by agricultural companies and other business
groups, have reservations.

''I think you have got to be careful to force it on people,'' said Mr. Schilling
of Illinois, who said ''it might start out with a good intent, but the next
thing you know, it's something totally different.''

Then there are members who simply face a new demographic reality, where many
voters, including potential new Republicans, are Hispanic.

''I am troubled by the demonization of immigrants, legal or illegal, in our
party,'' said Representative Blake Farenthold, who represents a South Texas
district and is a member of the bipartisan House Border Caucus. ''We've got a
country that was built on immigrants and immigration, and we've kind of lost
sight of that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mike Lee is working on a bill to provide residential
visas to foreign home buyers who invest at least $500,000. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX
BRANDON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Representative Tim Griffin, left, said science professionals ''are not people
who snuck over in the middle of the night.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY
IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 30, 2011 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

You Want to Track Me? Here You Go, F.B.I.

BYLINE: By HASAN M. ELAHI.

An associate professor and an interdisciplinary artist at the University of
Maryland. This article is adapted from a forthcoming TED Talk.

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1480 words


ON June 19, 2002, I ran into a bit of a problem that turned my life upside down.
It happened at the Detroit airport as I was entering the country. I realized
something wasn't right when the immigration agent at United States Customs slid
my passport through the reader, then froze. ''Is there something wrong?'' I
asked. He was still frozen. After a few moments, he said, ''Follow me, please,''
and I ended up at the Immigration and Naturalization Service's airport office.

It was a large room filled with foreign-looking people, and fear was written on
all their faces; this was their first day in the United States, and things were
evidently not going well. Typically, there is little overlap between the I.N.S.
and American citizens like me, and when I tried to find out from one of the
agents what I was doing there, he seemed just as confused as I was.

Eventually, a man in a dark suit approached and said, ''I expected you to be
older.'' I asked if he could please explain what was happening, and he said,
''You have some explaining to do yourself.''

We then entered an interrogation room, barren and stark white with a camera in
the corner. He sat across from me at an L-shaped desk and asked me to retrace
the path I'd taken since I had left the United States. He asked me various
detailed questions for a good half hour and then, out of nowhere, said, ''Where
were you September 12?''

Fortunately, I'm neurotic about record keeping. I had my Palm P.D.A. with me; I
looked up Wednesday, Sept. 12, 2001 on my calendar. I read him the contents:
''pay storage rent at 10; meeting with Judith at 10:30; intro class from 12 to
3; advanced class from 3 to 6.'' We read about six months of my calendar
appointments. I don't think he was expecting me to have such detailed records.

He continued, ''You had a storage unit in Tampa, right?''

''Yes, near the university.''

''What did you have in it?''

''Boxes of winter clothes, furniture I can't fit in my apartment, some assorted
junk and garage sale material.''

''No explosives?''

''I'm certain I didn't have any explosives.''

''Well, we received a report that you had explosives and had fled on September
12.''

Given that I was very cooperative, and also had meticulous records that showed
what I did when, I think he began to realize that whatever report he had was
erroneous.

A few weeks later, a Justice Department official called my office in Tampa and
said he wanted to speak to me about my interview in Detroit. He asked me to come
to the Federal Building downtown, where he led me into a room where he and an
F.B.I. agent interrogated me about where I'd been and when, and had I witnessed
acts that might be detrimental to the interests of the United States or a
foreign country, and had I ever met anyone from Al Qaeda, Islamic Jihad, Hamas
or Hezbollah. The F.B.I. agent seemed to know quite remarkable details about
things like the regular versus the Hezbollah bus routes in Beirut, and the
person memorialized in the statue at the entrance of the American University
there. His knowledge frightened me.

I COULD have contested the legality of the investigation and gotten a lawyer.
But I thought that would make things messier. It was clear who had the power in
this situation. And when you're face to face with someone with so much power,
you behave in an unusual manner. You dare not take any action. You rely on
instincts and do what you need to survive. I told them everything.

The questioning went on for the next six months and ended with a series of
polygraph examinations. I must have completed these to the agents' satisfaction;
eventually an interrogating agent told me that I had been cleared and that
everything was fine and said that if I needed anything I should call him. I was
planning to travel in the weeks ahead and was nervous about entering the
country; I asked the agent about this, and he told me to call him with the
information about my flights and said he would take care of everything.

Shortly after, I called the F.B.I. to report my whereabouts. I chose to. I
wanted to make sure that the bureau knew that I wasn't making any sudden moves
and that I wasn't running off somewhere. I wanted them to know where I was and
what I was doing at any given time.

Soon I began to e-mail the F.B.I. I started to send longer e-mails, with
pictures, and then with links to Web sites I made. I wrote some clunky code for
my phone back in 2003 and turned it into a tracking device.

My thinking was something like, ''You want to watch me? Fine. But I can watch
myself better than you can, and I can get a level of detail that you will never
have.''

In the process of compiling data about myself and supplying it to the F.B.I., I
started thinking about what intelligence agents might not know about me. I
created a list of every flight I've ever been on, since birth. For the more
recent flights, I noted the exact flight numbers, recorded in my frequent flier
accounts, and also photographs of the meals that I ate on each flight, as well
as photos of each knife provided by each airline on each flight.

On my Web site, I compiled various databases that show the airports I've been
in, food I've eaten at home, food I've eaten on the road, random hotel beds I've
slept in, various parking lots off Interstate 80 that I parked in, empty train
stations I saw, as well as very specific information like photos of the tacos I
ate in Mexico City between July 5 and 7, and the toilets I used.

These images seem empty, and could be anywhere, but they're not; they are
extremely specific records of my exact travels to particular places. There are
46,000 images on my site. I trust that the F.B.I. has seen all of them. Agents
know where I've bought my duck-flavored paste, or kimchi, laundry detergent and
chitlins; because I told them everything.

I also provided screenshots of my financial data, communications records and
transportation logs. Visitors to my site can cross-reference these records with
my images in a way that's similar to how the F.B.I. cross-references the very
same databases. I provided information from third parties (including my bank,
phone company, etc.) who can verify that I was at the locations indicated, on
the dates and times specified on my Web site.

PEOPLE who visit my site -- and my server logs indicate repeat visits from the
Department of Homeland Security, the C.I.A., the National Reconnaissance Office
and the Executive Office of the President -- don't find my information organized
clearly. In fact, the interface I use is deliberately user-unfriendly. A lot of
work is required to thread together the thousands of available points of
information. By putting everything about me out there, I am simultaneously
telling everything and nothing about my life. Despite the barrage of information
about me that is publicly available, I live a surprisingly private and anonymous
life.

In an era in which everything is archived and tracked, the best way to maintain
privacy may be to give it up. Information agencies operate in an industry that
values data. Restricted access to information is what makes it valuable. If I
cut out the middleman and flood the market with my information, the intelligence
the F.B.I. has on me will be of no value. Making my private information public
devalues the currency of the information the intelligence gatherers have
collected.

My activities may be more symbolic than not, but if 300 million people started
sending private information to federal agents, the government would need to hire
as many as another 300 million people, possibly more, to keep up with the
information and we'd have to redesign our entire intelligence system.

East Germany tried this some decades back; it didn't work out to be such a great
plan for them. We have incredibly intelligent people and very sophisticated
computer systems in various agencies in Washington, but the culture of these
agencies prevents us from evolving beyond the cold-war-era mind-set. (There are
people in Washington who still refer to China as ''Red China.'') Fortunately,
people in government have begun to see that collecting information is less
useful than figuring out how to analyze it.

When I first started talking about my project in 2003, people thought I was
insane. Why would anyone tell everyone what he was doing at all times? Why would
anyone want to share a photo of every place he visited? Now eight years later,
more than 800 million people do the same thing I've been doing each time they
update their status or post an image or poke someone on Facebook. (Just to put
this in perspective, if Facebook was a country, it would have the third highest
population, after China and India.) Insane?

What I'm doing is no longer just an art project; creating our own archives has
become so commonplace that we're all -- or at least hundreds of millions of us
-- doing it all the time. Whether we know it or not.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hasan Elahi's location at 5:43 p.m. Oct. 26, as captured by
satellite imagery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DIGITALGLOBE VIA TRACKINGTRANSIENCE.NET)(SR6)
 An artist supplies the F.B.I. with records of his every move. On his Web site,
he has posted 46,000 pictures of the airports he's visited, the meals he's eaten
and even the restrooms he has used. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HASAN M. ELAHI)(SR6-SR7)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 17, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Review Cases Seeking Deportations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1030 words


The Department of Homeland Security will begin a review on Thursday of all
deportation cases before the immigration courts and start a nationwide training
program for enforcement agents and prosecuting lawyers, with the goal of
speeding deportations of convicted criminals and halting those of many illegal
immigrants with no criminal record.

The accelerated triage of the court docket -- about 300,000 cases -- is intended
to allow severely overburdened immigration judges to focus on deporting
foreigners who committed serious crimes or pose national security risks,
Homeland Security officials said. Taken together, the review and the training,
which will instruct immigration agents on closing deportations that fall outside
the department's priorities, are designed to bring sweeping changes to the
immigration courts and to enforcement strategies of field agents nationwide.

According to a document obtained by The New York Times, Homeland Security
officials will issue guidelines on Thursday to begin the training program and
the first stages of the court caseload review. Both are efforts to put into
practice a policy senior officials had announced in June, to encourage
immigration agents to use prosecutorial discretion when deciding whether to
pursue a deportation.

The policy, described in a June 17 memorandum by John Morton, the director of
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, suggested that the Obama administration
would scale back deportations of illegal immigrants who were young students,
military service members, elderly people or close family of American citizens,
among others. While the announcement raised excited expectations in Latino and
other immigrant communities, until now the policy has been applied spottily,
deepening disillusionment with President Obama in those communities.

The Obama administration has removed high numbers of illegal immigrants, nearly
400,000 in each of the last three years. Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano and Mr. Morton said those numbers would not decrease, but they wanted
agents and courts to focus on deporting the worst offenders, including national
security risks, criminal convicts and those who repeatedly violate immigration
laws. Many immigration offenses, including being present in the United States
without legal status, are civil violations; they are not crimes.

Administration officials have flexibility to transform immigration court
procedures because those courts are part of the Justice Department in the
executive branch, not part of the federal judiciary. Central to the plan is
giving more power to immigration agency lawyers -- the equivalent of prosecutors
in the federal court system -- to decide which deportation cases to press.

''We are empowering the attorneys nationally to make them more like federal
prosecutors, who decide what cases to bring,'' said a senior Homeland Security
official, who asked not to be named because the policy has not been formally
announced.

In the first stage of the court docket review, which will begin on Thursday,
immigration agency lawyers will examine all new cases just arriving in
immigration courts nationwide, with an eye to closing cases that are
low-priority according to the Morton memorandum, before they advance into the
court system.

At the same time, immigrants identified as high priority will see their cases
put onto an expedited calendar for judges to order their deportations, Homeland
Security officials said.

The goal is to ''reduce inefficiencies that delay the removal of criminal aliens
and other priority cases by preventing new low priority cases from clogging the
immigration court dockets,'' the Homeland Security document said. Officials said
the first stage was an ''initial test run'' that would be completed by Jan. 13.

The Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research group that analyzes
immigration court data, reported in September that the backlog before the
nation's 59 immigration courts was at ''a new all-time high.''

In a second stage, to begin Dec. 4, the Department of Homeland Security and the
Justice Department will start six-week pilot projects in the immigration courts
in Baltimore and Denver, in which teams of immigration agency lawyers will comb
through the current dockets of those courts. They will focus on cases of
immigrants who have been arrested for deportation, but who are not being held in
detention while their cases proceed.

Immigrants who are deemed to qualify for prosecutorial discretion will have
their cases closed, but not dismissed, officials said. That means that agents
could re-open the deportations at any time if the immigrants commit a crime or a
new immigration violation. Immigrants whose cases are closed will be allowed to
remain in the United States, but they will be in legal limbo, without any
positive immigration status.

The pilot projects will also end on Jan. 13, and then officials will decide how
to expand the program to all immigration courts nationwide early next year.

Also on Thursday, Homeland Security officials will introduce a training program
based on scenarios that could arise in enforcement operations, which every
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agent must complete by mid-January. The goal
is to instruct agents, many of whom have expressed doubts about Mr. Morton's
policy, to apply the prosecutorial discretion criteria.

The approach of deporting some illegal immigrants but not others requires a deep
change in the mentality of the agents, who have long operated on the principle
that any violation was good cause for deportation.

Republicans in Congress have denounced the new deportations policy, accusing the
Obama administration of trying an end-run around Congress by granting de facto
amnesty to illegal immigrants. Representative Lamar Smith, a Republican from
Texas who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said the prosecutorial
discretion policy had the ''specific purpose of overruling or preventing orders
of removal for illegal immigrants.''

Administration officials said they would proceed case by case using existing
legal authorities, and had no plans to exempt any large group of illegal
immigrants from deportation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 18, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Living Along a Contentious Border

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW
'LAREDOANS SPEAK: VOICES ON IMMIGRATION'; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 305 words


A rich opportunity is squandered with ''Laredoans Speak,'' a documentary of
laudable aspirations suffering from its pronounced sympathies. There is a great,
balanced report waiting to be assembled that gathers opinions in an American
border city with Mexico and presents a range of political perspectives. Such a
cross-section is not seen in this film, an unabashed appeal for immigration
policy reform.

That point of view -- articulated by its interview subjects, including Raul G.
Salinas, Laredo's mayor; Congressman Henry Cuellar, a Democrat from Texas; Juan
Garza, a former sheriff for Webb County, Tex.; and most eloquently, Robbie
Greenblum, an immigration lawyer (now chief of staff to the mayor of San
Antonio) -- is entirely understandable. There are many reasons to revise United
States immigration policy: the willingness of Mexicans to perform back-breaking
farm labor that many Americans won't touch for the same pay; the length of time
it takes to process citizenship applications; the imposing barrier arising from
the Secure Fence Act of 2006.

But thorny issues like the Mexican crime cartels and America's voracious
appetite for drugs are only briefly addressed; a spokesman for United States
Customs and Border Protection offers the one remotely conservative opinion. The
disgust toward the United States expressed by an anonymous coyote (a trafficker
of illegal immigrants) doesn't help. Nor do the sanctimonious intonations of the
credited host, the actor and motivational speaker Pepe Serna. Yes, immigrants
made the United States great, as most New Yorkers know. And sound reform is
urgently needed. But not another shot of the Statue of Liberty and pious
recitation of Emma Lazarus's ''New Colossus.''

Opens on Friday in Manhattan. Directed by Victor A. Martinez and Ryan L. Schafer
1 hour 16 minutes; not rated

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Undocumented immigrants shown working in southern Texas in
''Laredoans Speak: Voices on Immigration.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BORDER TOWN PICTURES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 19, 2011 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Alabama: Traffic-Stop Arrest Draws Attention of Governor

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTH; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 139 words


A German manager with Mercedes-Benz is free after being arrested for not having
a driver's license with him under Alabama's new law targeting illegal
immigrants. The otherwise routine case drew the attention of Gov. Robert
Bentley. Police Chief Steven Anderson of Tuscaloosa said an officer stopped a
rental vehicle for not having a tag Wednesday night and asked for the driver's
license. The man only had a German identification card, so he was arrested and
taken to police headquarters, where he was charged with violating the
immigration law. He was released after his passport was retrieved. The governor,
a Republican who signed the law, called the state's homeland security director,
Spencer Collier, after hearing of the arrest to get details about had happened,
Mr. Collier said. The governor referred all questions to Mr. Collier.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Spirited Foreign Policy Debate Includes a Test of Gingrich's Rise

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and JEFF ZELENY; Ashley Parker and Michael D. Shear
contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1387 words


WASHINGTON -- The Republican presidential candidates highlighted their party's
lack of a single national security vision a decade after the Sept. 11 attacks,
differing on Tuesday night over the pace of withdrawal from Afghanistan, aid to
Pakistan and, in an exchange that could resonate dangerously for Newt Gingrich,
what to do with illegal immigrants in the United States.

Wading into treacherous territory in Republican primary politics just as he is
climbing in polls, Mr. Gingrich said during a nationally televised debate that
he would support allowing some illegal immigrants -- those who had been in the
country for decades, had paid taxes and had raised families here -- to remain in
the country. Mr. Gingrich, a former speaker of the House, warned that the party
could not claim a family-friendly mantle if it was to ''adopt an immigration
policy which destroys families that have been here a quarter-century.''

Similar comments by Gov. Rick Perry of Texas at a debate several weeks ago were
viewed as hurting him greatly with many conservative voters, especially in Iowa,
which is to hold the first nominating contest, on Jan. 3. This time, Mr.
Gingrich decided to enter the fray.

''I'm prepared to take the heat,'' he said, ''to say let's be humane in
enforcing the law without giving them citizenship, but by finding a way to
create legality so that they are not separated from their families.''

Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota quickly challenged him, telling the
debate moderator, Wolf Blitzer of CNN, ''I think the speaker just said that that
would make 11 people, 11 million people who are here illegally now, legal.''

It was just one point of contention in a substantive debate that brought to the
fore differences among the candidates on a variety of foreign policy issues, but
it seemed to hold the most chance to affect the race at a moment when Mr.
Gingrich has emerged as a leading challenger to former Gov. Mitt Romney of
Massachusetts.

The candidates by and large struck a hawkish tone in dealing with Iran and
protecting the United States from terrorist attacks.

But under questioning from Mr. Blitzer and an array of conservative and
neoconservative officials from past administrations now affiliated with the
other sponsors -- the American Enterprise Institute and the Heritage Foundation
-- the candidates engaged in a number of spirited debates among themselves.

Mr. Perry called for a no-fly zone over Syria to limit that government's
violence against its people. Mr. Romney seemed to mock the proposal in the
context of Syria's use of ground forces, saying, ''A no-fly zone wouldn't be the
right military action -- maybe a no-drive zone.''

Channeling Hillary Rodham Clinton's chastisement of Barack Obama in Democratic
primary debates four years ago, Mrs. Bachmann called Mr. Perry ''highly naive''
for suggesting cutting off American aid to Pakistan, calling that nation ''too
nuclear to fail.''

Representative Ron Paul of Texas chastised his Republican opponents for
surrendering civil liberties to the fight against terrorists, for taking a hard
line on Iran and for supporting the idea of using racial profiling to single out
terrorism suspects, specifically Muslims -- a criticism that former Gov. Jon M.
Huntsman Jr. of Utah echoed.

Mr. Huntsman, a former ambassador to China, got into one of the sharpest
exchanges of the evening with Mr. Romney, whom he is hoping to upset in the New
Hampshire primary on Jan. 10 despite his relatively low standing in polls. Mr.
Huntsman repeated his call for most American troops to leave Afghanistan
quickly, while Mr. Romney is insistent that troops should stay longer than
President Obama has decreed.

''We don't need 100,000 troops,'' Mr. Huntsman said, clearly reveling in having
a substantive back and forth with the front-runner.

''This is not time for America to cut and run,'' Mr. Romney replied.

The debate at Constitution Hall, just blocks from the White House, put pressure
on the candidates to show their policy expertise in a way few, if any, have had
to yet. Mr. Blitzer's questions were augmented by those of a lineup that
included Edwin Meese III, who served as attorney general under President Ronald
Reagan; Paul D. Wolfowitz, a former deputy defense secretary and a leading
architect of the Iraq war under President George W. Bush; and David S.
Addington, a counselor to former Vice President Dick Cheney.

The debate highlighted more than merely the differences in the foreign policy
views of the eight presidential candidates, most of whom spent extra time
preparing for what one campaign strategist compared to an ''A.P. exam.''

The conversation also drew attention to a significant transition inside the
party, with old Republican arguments on display in a new world of debt-conscious
Washington.

The candidates showed their differences on the potential cuts to the military
that inched closer to reality this week after a special Congressional committee
failed to reach an agreement on $1.2 trillion in deficit reductions, which could
trigger $500 billion in reductions to the Pentagon budget over the next 10
years.

While Mr. Romney declared that such cuts would be draconian -- he blamed Mr.
Obama for failing to take a leadership role -- Mr. Gingrich said he would not
shy away from finding efficiencies in military spending.

''There are some things you can do in defense that are less expensive,'' Mr.
Gingrich said.

There was general -- but not universal -- agreement on Iran.

Mr. Gingrich said he would support an Israeli strike against Iran, if ''only as
a last recourse and only as step toward replacing the regime.''

Herman Cain, the former Godfather's Pizza chief executive, went one further,
saying he would go so far as to help the Israelis in an attack on Iran, though
only if ''it was clear what the mission was and it was clear what the definition
of victory was.''

Mr. Romney said he would ''stand up to Iran with crippling sanctions.''

The candidates with Congressional and administration experience seemed to have a
stronger grasp on the issues, with former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania
reaching back to his days on the Armed Services Committee, Mrs. Bachmann giving
rapid-fire responses from her experience on the House Intelligence Committee and
Mr. Huntsman talking about his time as ambassador to China.

When asked whether the United States could still afford programs like AIDS
programs in Africa, Mr. Santorum said America could not afford not having them.
He said his Republican rivals were being short-sighted in their thinking by
cutting humanitarian relief.

''Zero out all the things we do to develop relationships around the world,'' he
said, ''and we will spend a lot more money on the military.''

Mr. Romney, striving to establish himself as the most presidential of the field,
seemed to make a point of exhibiting his facility in foreign policy, giving a
mini-lecture on Syria, for instance, saying, ''We need to meet with the
Alawites, to make sure they understand that they have a future after Assad, that
they don't have to link with him.'' President Bashar al-Assad of Syria is a
member of the minority Alawite sect.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 26, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Wednesday about a Republican presidential debate on Tuesday night
misidentified, in some copies, the candidate referred to as ''highly naive'' for
suggesting that the United States cut off aid to Pakistan. And a correction in
this space on Thursday misspelled -- because of an error by the corrections
editor -- the given name of the candidate who made the comment. She is
Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota (not Michelle) and she criticized
Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, not former Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania.

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on
Wednesday about a spirited debate over foreign policy by the Republican
presidential candidates in Washington on Tuesday night misidentified, in some
copies, the candidate Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota called
''highly naive'' after he suggested cutting off American aid to Pakistan. She
was criticizing Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, not former Senator Rick Santorum of
Pennsylvania.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Before the sparring began at the debate in Washington on
Tuesday, the Republican presidential primary candidates paused as the national
anthem was sung. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILIP SCOTT ANDREWS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Representative Ron Paul, left, chastised his opponents, including Gov. Rick
Perry and Mitt Romney, for their security views. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN
VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 23, 2011 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Israel and 'Pinkwashing'

BYLINE: By SARAH SCHULMAN.

Sarah Schulman is a professor of humanities at the College of Staten Island,
City University of New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 870 words


''IN dreams begin responsibilities,'' wrote Yeats in 1914. These words resonate
with lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people who have witnessed dramatic
shifts in our relationship to power. After generations of sacrifice and
organization, gay people in parts of the world have won protection from
discrimination and relationship recognition. But these changes have given rise
to a nefarious phenomenon: the co-opting of white gay people by anti-immigrant
and anti-Muslim political forces in Western Europe and Israel.

In the Netherlands, some Dutch gay people have been drawn to the messages of
Geert Wilders, who inherited many followers of the assassinated anti-immigration
gay leader Pim Fortuyn, and whose Party for Freedom is now the country's third
largest political party. In Norway, Anders Behring Breivik, the extremist who
massacred 77 people in July, cited Bruce Bawer, a gay American writer critical
of Muslim immigration, as an influence. The Guardian reported last year that the
racist English Defense League had 115 members in its gay wing. The German
Lesbian and Gay Federation has issued statements citing Muslim immigrants as
enemies of gay people.

These depictions of immigrants -- usually Muslims of Arab, South Asian, Turkish
or African origin -- as ''homophobic fanatics'' opportunistically ignore the
existence of Muslim gays and their allies within their communities. They also
render invisible the role that fundamentalist Christians, the Roman Catholic
Church and Orthodox Jews play in perpetuating fear and even hatred of gays. And
that cynical message has now spread from its roots in European xenophobia to
become a potent tool in the long-running Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

In 2005, with help from American marketing executives, the Israeli government
began a marketing campaign, ''Brand Israel,'' aimed at men ages 18 to 34. The
campaign, as reported by The Jewish Daily Forward, sought to depict Israel as
''relevant and modern.'' The government later expanded the marketing plan by
harnessing the gay community to reposition its global image.

Last year, the Israeli news site Ynet reported that the Tel Aviv tourism board
had begun a campaign of around $90 million to brand the city as ''an
international gay vacation destination.'' The promotion, which received support
from the Tourism Ministry and Israel's overseas consulates, includes depictions
of young same-sex couples and financing for pro-Israeli movie screenings at
lesbian and gay film festivals in the United States. (The government isn't
alone; an Israeli pornography producer even shot a film, ''Men of Israel,'' on
the site of a former Palestinian village.)

This message is being articulated at the highest levels. In May, Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu told Congress that the Middle East was ''a region where women
are stoned, gays are hanged, Christians are persecuted.''

The growing global gay movement against the Israeli occupation has named these
tactics ''pinkwashing'': a deliberate strategy to conceal the continuing
violations of Palestinians' human rights behind an image of modernity signified
by Israeli gay life. Aeyal Gross, a professor of law at Tel Aviv University,
argues that ''gay rights have essentially become a public-relations tool,'' even
though ''conservative and especially religious politicians remain fiercely
homophobic.''

Pinkwashing not only manipulates the hard-won gains of Israel's gay community,
but it also ignores the existence of Palestinian gay-rights organizations.
Homosexuality has been decriminalized in the West Bank since the 1950s, when
anti-sodomy laws imposed under British colonial influence were removed from the
Jordanian penal code, which Palestinians follow. More important is the emerging
Palestinian gay movement with three major organizations: Aswat, Al Qaws and
Palestinian Queers for Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions. These groups are clear
that the oppression of Palestinians crosses the boundary of sexuality; as Haneen
Maikay, the director of Al Qaws, has said, ''When you go through a checkpoint it
does not matter what the sexuality of the soldier is.''

What makes lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and their allies so
susceptible to pinkwashing -- and its corollary, the tendency among some white
gay people to privilege their racial and religious identity, a phenomenon the
theorist Jasbir K. Puar has called ''homonationalism'' -- is the emotional
legacy of homophobia. Most gay people have experienced oppression in profound
ways -- in the family; in distorted representations in popular culture; in
systematic legal inequality that has only just begun to relent. Increasing gay
rights have caused some people of good will to mistakenly judge how advanced a
country is by how it responds to homosexuality.

In Israel, gay soldiers and the relative openness of Tel Aviv are incomplete
indicators of human rights -- just as in America, the expansion of gay rights in
some states does not offset human rights violations like mass incarceration. The
long-sought realization of some rights for some gays should not blind us to the
struggles against racism in Europe and the United States, or to the
Palestinians' insistence on a land to call home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 24, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Gingrich's Words on Immigration Become a Target

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY and TRIP GABRIEL; Jeff Zeleny reported from Des Moines,
and Trip Gabriel from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1144 words


DES MOINES -- An intense debate over immigration flared among the Republican
presidential candidates on Wednesday as Mitt Romney declared that Newt Gingrich
''offered a new doorway to amnesty'' when he called for a ''humane'' immigration
policy to avoid deportation for people who are deeply rooted in their churches
and communities.

Mr. Romney, who is eager to stop the rise of Mr. Gingrich with the Iowa caucuses
only six weeks away, signaled that he intended to go after his rival with the
same vigor he used against Gov. Rick Perry of Texas two months ago when he said
Republicans were ''heartless'' for standing in the way of offering education to
children of illegal immigrants.

With the controversy likely to shape the next phase of the nominating fight, Mr.
Romney repeatedly used the word ''amnesty'' during a campaign visit here to
describe the position Mr. Gingrich outlined at a debate Tuesday night. While
aides to Mr. Gingrich forcefully refuted the characterization of his plan as
''amnesty,'' a swift backlash erupted among conservative activists that could
present the biggest test of his resurgent candidacy.

Representative Steve King of Iowa, a leading voice against illegal immigration,
said he was puzzled that Mr. Gingrich had suddenly injected such a red-hot issue
into his campaign. He said it was difficult to overstate how potent of a problem
it could be for Mr. Gingrich, saying it set off ''a viral discussion among
activists.''

''When you have a campaign that's ascending and you make a statement like that,
it's like you're backing off on the throttle and diminishing yourself,'' Mr.
King said in an interview. ''It's the same philosophy as the Dream Act. How many
politicians have seen their campaigns end because of that?''

But Mr. Gingrich stood his ground and fired back at Mr. Romney in a message on
Twitter, saying, ''So what's your position on citizenship for illegals again?''

His retort was a reference to a 2007 interview when Mr. Romney spoke favorably
of creating a path toward citizenship for many of the 12 million people living
here illegally. Asked about that on Wednesday, Mr. Romney said that there was no
discrepancy and added that he does not favor a ''special deal'' for anyone.

Mr. Gingrich's advisers said that he did not misspeak at the debate and pointed
out that his comments were in line with decades of positioning on the subject,
including his support for the 1986 immigration overhaul signed by President
Ronald Reagan that extended amnesty to about three million illegal immigrants.
And he backed a less extensive overhaul in the 1990s as House speaker.

Mr. Gingrich, who takes Spanish classes and has started a bilingual Web site,
The Americano, was not offering a new position. But his long-held view was
suddenly receiving scrutiny because he has emerged as a leading candidate for
the nomination.

But the strategy -- sensible as it seems during a general election with
independents to be courted -- faces far different prospects in a Republican
primary season, particularly in Iowa and other early-voting, conservative
states.

''Iowa caucusgoers want a solution that does not include amnesty, and if they
can paint Newt with an amnesty brush it will be toxic for his campaign,'' said
Tim Albrecht, a top aide to Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa.

While Mr. Gingrich said he supported securing the border and proposed creating
an anti-fraud application system for immigrants, his plan to deal with those who
entered the country illegally drew fresh notice. He suggested turning cases over
to local citizens boards that could weigh whether residents could be allowed
stay in the country.

''If you've been here 25 years, and you got three kids and two grandkids, you've
been paying taxes and obeying the law, you belong to a local church,'' Mr.
Gingrich said, ''I don't think we're going to separate you from your family,
uproot you forcefully and kick you out.''

His comments touched off a torrent of criticism. Still, he took a reprieve from
campaigning on the day before Thanksgiving, a sign that he was not worried.

But Mr. Romney, who is intensifying his efforts to win the Iowa caucuses, raised
several questions about the plan put forward by Mr. Gingrich. He said Mr.
Gingrich did not draw a distinction between someone who had been here for 25
years or had arrived illegally only recently.

''How about someone who has been here 20 years? How about 12 years? How about
10? Five? Three?'' Mr. Romney said. ''The real issue is, are we going to spend
our time talking about how extensive we have amnesty?''

Mr. Gingrich's spokesman, R. C. Hammond, pushed back against Mr. Romney, who
also has vulnerabilities of his own on immigration. ''It isn't hard to figure
out what Mitt Romney is shoveling,'' Mr. Hammond said. ''The facts show Newt's
plan is the opposite of amnesty.''

Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota pressed a similar line of attack in
television interviews and in a statement from her campaign titled ''Newt
Gingrich's Open Door to Illegal Immigrant Amnesty.'' While she and other rivals
have limited resources to spend on advertising campaigns, Mr. Romney has showed
a willingness to play aggressively.

To respond to Mr. Perry's support for a Texas law allowing in-state tuition for
illegal immigrants, Mr. Romney sent sharply worded fliers across Iowa and
organized teleconferences for voters with Sheriff Paul Babeu of Pinal County,
Ariz., who has criticized Mr. Perry's opposition to building a fence along the
Mexican border.

While aides to Mr. Gingrich said that he would be able to explain his position,
several Republican activists in Iowa said it could be an uphill battle.

''Some of the candidates will treat it like it's an amnesty-type issue, which is
a buzzword -- a very negative word to a lot of conservatives,'' said Mark
Lundberg, chairman of the Republican Party of Sioux County, one of the state's
most Republican regions.

Mr. Gingrich does not have an active campaign organization here, which
complicated efforts to respond to criticism. His supporters pointed voters to
his Web site, where a 10-point plan on immigration policy has been posted for
some time.

He said security at the borders took priority, followed by a ''path to
legality,'' which stops short of citizenship with the right to vote. He proposes
that illegal immigrants who have lived for years in the United States could
remain, if they show a proficiency in English and buy health insurance. They
would be approved by local citizens committees -- ''something like a World War
II Selective Service board.''

Dr. Greg Ganske, a former congressman and a co-chairman of the Gingrich campaign
in Iowa, said he did not think the issue would be damaging.

''The fact he spoke honestly about this and wasn't willing to pander or just
give a stock answer,'' he said, ''I think a lot of people in Iowa will see that
as a positive.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS CHART: Where the Candidates Stand on Immigration: A heated
discussion on immigration took place during Tuesday night's Republican
presidential debate.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 25, 2011 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In New York, Mexicans Lag In Education

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NOW ARRIVING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words


In the past two decades, the Mexican population in New York City has grown more
than fivefold, with immigrants settling across the five boroughs. Many adults
have demonstrated remarkable success at finding work, filling restaurant
kitchens and construction sites, and opening hundreds of businesses.

But their children, in one crucial respect, have fared far differently.

About 41 percent of all Mexicans between ages 16 and 19 in the city have dropped
out of school, according to census data.

No other major immigrant group has a dropout rate higher than 20 percent, and
the overall rate for the city is less than 9 percent, the statistics show.

This crisis endures at the college level. Among Mexican immigrants 19 to 23 who
do not have a college degree, only 6 percent are enrolled. That is a fraction of
the rates among other major immigrant groups and the native-born population.

Moreover, these rates are significantly worse than those of the broader Mexican
immigrant population in the United States.

The problem is especially unsettling because Mexicans are the fastest-growing
major immigrant group in the city, officially numbering about 183,200, according
to the Census Bureau, up from about 33,600 in 1990. Experts say the actual
figure is far larger, given high levels of illegal immigration.

A small group of educators and advocates have begun various educational
initiatives for Mexicans, and there is evidence of recent strides.

But the educators and advocates say that unless these efforts are sustained, and
even intensified, the city may have a large Mexican underclass for generations.

''We are stanching an educational hemorrhage, but only partially,'' said Robert
C. Smith, a sociology professor at the City University of New York who studies
the local Mexican population.

''The worst outcomes are still possible,'' he added.

Experts say the crisis stems from many factors -- or what Dr. Smith called ''a
perfect storm of educational disadvantage.''

Many Mexicans are poor and in the country illegally. Parents, many of them
uneducated, often work in multiple jobs, leaving little time for involvement in
their children's education.

Some are further isolated from their children's school life because of language
barriers or fear that contact with school officials may lead to deportation.

Unlike some other immigrant populations, like the Chinese, Mexicans have few
programs for tutoring or mentoring.

''We don't have enough academic role models,'' said Angelo Cabrera, 35, a
Mexican immigrant who runs a nonprofit group that tutors Mexican and
Mexican-American students in the basement of a church in the Mott Haven section
of the Bronx.

Many young illegal immigrants in New York City say there is no point in staying
in school because their lack of legal status limits their access to college
scholarships and employment opportunities. Some drop out under the erroneous
belief that they are not eligible to attend college. (Illegal immigrants who
graduate from a high school in New York State or earn a G.E.D. are not only
allowed to attend the state's public university system, but are also eligible
for in-state tuition.)

''They just give up,'' said Karina Sosa, 22, a Mexican-American undergraduate at
Baruch College and an education activist.

Educational achievement among Mexican immigrants is worse in New York than in
the broader Mexican population around the country in part, experts say, because
Mexicans in the city have shallower roots, less stable households and higher
rates of illegal immigration.

Ivan Lucero, who emigrated illegally from Mexico with his mother when he was 6
and grew up in the Belmont area of the Bronx, said his parents urged him to stay
in school and study. But his father was distracted by long work days, and his
mother, who did not speak English, had no contact with the school.

Mr. Lucero said he began skipping classes to hang out with other young Mexicans
who had formed a gang. Once heavily Italian, the neighborhood was experiencing
an influx of Mexicans.

Mexican children were filling Belmont's schools, Mexican workers were staffing
restaurants in the Little Italy section around Arthur Avenue and Mexican-owned
shops were popping up on every other block.

Many young Mexicans were compelled to get jobs to help their families. In high
school, Mr. Lucero began working as a busboy, which further distracted him from
school work, he said. He was forced to repeat 10th grade twice, though he would
lie to his parents about how he was doing.

''You don't think of nothing else but having fun with your friends, meeting up
with girls, having your boys with you,'' Mr. Lucero said. ''The last thing you
think of is school.''

He was expelled when he was 18, while still in 10th grade. Most of his Mexican
friends from high school also dropped out and entered the work force, and so did
one of his younger brothers.

''I don't see many Mexican kids going to school,'' said Mr. Lucero, now 28 and
working as a waiter. ''It's horrible.''

These problems extend throughout the swelling Mexican immigrant diaspora in the
New York region. They have also afflicted the population of second-generation
Mexican-Americans: While educational achievement is far higher among
American-born children with Mexican ancestry, it still lags behind the rates of
most other foreign-born and native-born groups, according to census data, which
was analyzed by Andrew A. Beveridge and Susan Weber-Stoger, demographers at
Queens College.

Syndi Cortes, 19, one of five children of Mexican immigrants in the Highbridge
section of the Bronx, said she dropped out after getting pregnant at 16. She had
already been cutting most of her classes, she said, and so had most of her
Mexican and Mexican-American friends.

Last year, she tried to resume school, but her mother, who was working long days
as a housecleaner, was opposed to day care and forced her to drop out again to
look after her baby.

Ms. Cortes said she felt stranded and regretful at not having a high-school
degree. ''I want to get back,'' she said.

Many efforts to address the problem have centered on the City University of New
York. In 2007, Jay Hershenson, senior vice chancellor for university relations,
formed a special task force to study the issue, currently the only one of its
kind at the university focusing on a specific immigrant population.

''The loss of talent, of human capital, was simply an educational catastrophe,
one that CUNY had no intention of ignoring,'' Mr. Hershenson said.

Over the past several years, CUNY, as well as the Mexican consulate in New York,
several advocacy groups and others, have established afterschool tutoring,
college-readiness and scholarship programs; college admissions and financial aid
counseling for students and parents alike; and college fairs aimed at the
Mexican population.

The New York Immigration Coalition recently started an initiative to bring more
immigrant parents into the schools. Early efforts, in collaboration with the
Mexican consulate, focused on Mexicans.

These programs have already yielded some gains, advocates say. In 2000, for
instance, the high school dropout rate among Mexican immigrants in the city was
47 percent, six percentage points higher than the current rate.

But advocates say it has been a grinding, uphill battle.

''There are very few of us working on this problem,'' said Mr. Cabrera, who
founded his nonprofit organization, MASA-MexEd, after years of struggling to
stay in school and get a college degree while also working to support himself.
''We have thousands of students who need the support, and we can only provide
the support to hundreds.''

He added, ''I have to make sure that they keep their dreams alive.''

NOW ARRIVING: This is the sixth in a series of articles examining the lives and
impact of New York City's fast-growing Mexican population.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ivan Lucero, 28, was expelled from his Bronx high school when he
was 18, still in the 10th grade. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A33) CHARTS: Failing to Finish School: Major immigrant groups in New
York City, 2005-9 (Source: American Community Survey) (A33)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 28, 2011 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Price of Intolerance

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 599 words


It's early yet for a full accounting of the economic damage Alabama has done to
itself with its radical new immigration law.

Farmers can tally the cost of crops left to rot as workers flee. Governments can
calculate the loss of revenues when taxpayers flee. It's harder to measure the
price of a ruined business reputation or the value of investments lost or
productivity lost as Alabamians stand in line for hours to prove their
citizenship in any transaction with the government. Or what the state will
ultimately spend fighting off an onslaught of lawsuits, or training and
deploying police officers in the widening immigrant dragnet, or paying the cost
of diverting scarce resources away from fighting real crimes.

A growing number of Alabamians say the price will be too high, and there is
compelling evidence that they are right. Alabama is already at the low end of
states in employment and economic vitality. It has long struggled to lure good
jobs and shed a history of racial intolerance.

That was turning around and many foreign manufacturers, including Mercedes-Benz,
Hyundai and Honda, have set up there. Its business-friendly reputation took a
serious blow with the arrest in Tuscaloosa of a visiting Mercedes manager who
was caught driving without his license and taken to jail as a potential illegal
immigrant.

Sheldon Day, the mayor of Thomasville, has aggressively recruited foreign
companies to his town, including a Chinese company -- Golden Dragon Precise
Copper Tube Group -- that plans to build a $100 million plant there, with more
than 300 jobs.

Mayor Day is now worried about that project and future prospects. He was quoted
by The Press-Register in Mobile as saying business inquiries had dried up since
the law was passed. ''I know the immigration issue is being used against us.''

Alabama's competitors certainly won't waste any time. After the Tuscaloosa
incident, the editorial page of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch invited Mercedes to
Missouri. ''We are the Show-Me State,'' it said, ''not the 'Show me your papers'
state.''

Undocumented immigrants make up about 4.2 percent of Alabama's work force, or
95,000 people in a state of 4.8 million. For all of the talk about clearing the
way for unemployed Americans, there is no evidence that Alabamians in any
significant numbers are rushing to fill the gap left by missing farm laborers
and other low-wage immigrant workers.

The loss of job-filling, tax-paying workers may get even worse if Alabama is
allowed to enforce a law requiring people who own or rent a trailer home to
obtain an annual registration sticker. This puts the undocumented in a Catch-22
-- criminals if they don't have a sticker, criminals if they try to get one. For
now, a judge has issued an order blocking enforcement. But if the state wins,
many thousands may simply join the exodus, tearing more shreds in the economy.

The law's damage is particularly heartbreaking in poor towns across the state,
where small businesses are the economic lifeblood. We've spoken with Latino
shopkeepers and restaurant owners in places like Albertville who say business is
catastrophically down, with customers in hiding or flight. The situation isn't
much better in Huntsville and Birmingham.

There should be no doubt about the moral repugnance of Alabama's law, which
seeks to deny hardworking families the means to live. But even some of the law's
most enthusiastic supporters are beginning to acknowledge the law's high
economic cost. There is growing talk of revising or repealing the legislation.
The sooner Alabama does so -- and other states learn -- the better.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 30, 2011 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Highly Skilled May Wait Less for Visas

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 816 words


In a rare show of bipartisan comity on the angrily contested issue of
immigration, the House of Representatives on Tuesday passed a bill that tweaks
the visa system to allow more highly skilled immigrants from India and China to
become legal permanent residents.

The bill, originally offered by Representatives Jason Chaffetz, a conservative
Republican from Utah, and Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican and chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, sailed through by a vote of 389 to 15. Joining as
sponsors were several Democrats who are outspoken liberals on immigration,
including Representatives Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois and Zoe Lofgren of
California.

Mr. Chaffetz said he had tried to find a sweet spot, even if small, where
lawmakers from both parties could come together to fix the legal immigration
system, which is widely acknowledged to be broken. The bill does not address
illegal immigration, nor does it add any new visas to the system, which many
Republicans, including Mr. Smith, are reluctant to do.

''I campaigned in Utah on the idea that we can never solve our illegal
immigration woes without fixing legal immigration,'' Mr. Chaffetz said Tuesday.

The bill seemed likely to pass easily in the Senate, said Senator Charles E.
Schumer of New York, a leading Democrat on immigration.

Its main impact will be to reduce visa backlogs that meant, for example, that
some Indians with science or technology skills who were approved recently for
permanent resident visas, known as green cards, would face waits of 70 years
before they would actually receive the documents.

The bill eliminates limits on the number of green cards based on employment that
is available annually to each country. Currently, 140,000 green cards are
available each year for immigrants based on their job skills, with each country
limited to 7 percent of those visas. Under the bill, after a three-year
transition, all employment-based green cards will be issued on a
first-come-first-served basis, with no country limits.

The legislation also includes a measure that will more than double the green
cards based on family ties available for Mexicans and Filipinos, the two
national groups facing the longest backlogs on the family side of the system. It
raises the country limit for 226,000 family green cards each year to 15 percent
from the current 7 percent.

The fix in the family visas helped to persuade Democrats like Mr. Gutierrez to
sign on to the bill.

By far, the main beneficiaries will be highly skilled immigrants from India and
China, including many with master's degrees and doctorates in science and
engineering. Because they come from populous countries that send many people to
work here who have advanced science and technology skills, immigrants from those
two nations had been forced by the country limits into lines that were many
years long and growing much longer.

In most cases, Indians and Chinese who will now receive their permanent green
cards more quickly have been working in the United States for years on temporary
visas. The immigrants and their employers have passed labor market tests showing
that qualified Americans were not available for jobs they hold.

''This legislation makes sense,'' Mr. Smith said before the vote. ''Why should
American employers who seek green cards for skilled foreign workers have to wait
longer just because the workers are from India or China?''

American technology companies have been clamoring for Congress to offer more
green cards for their foreign employees, arguing that the United States was
losing out in global competition by forcing those immigrants to leave.

Some countries will lose under the legislation. During the next three years,
many more employment green cards will be set aside for Indians and Chinese than
for others languishing in backlogs, particularly Filipinos and South Koreans.

And because the law would add no new visas, backlogs would be redistributed but
not eliminated. The wait in the most severely clogged employment visa categories
will even out over time to 12 years for all countries, said Stuart Anderson,
executive director of the National Foundation for American Policy, which
conducts research on immigration.

Mr. Gutierrez said: ''We need bigger fixes to our legal immigration system so
that employers and families use official channels, not black-market ones. We
want people to go through the system, not around it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 2, 2011



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An article on Wednesday about the passage of a bill in the House of
Representatives to make more permanent resident visas available to some highly
skilled immigrants referred incorrectly to the congressional service of the
bill's lead sponsor, Republican Representative Jason Chaffetz of Utah. He was
first elected in 2008 and is now in his second term; he is not a freshman.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Jason Chaffetz, left, Republican of Utah, helped
introduce an immigration bill, and Representative Luis V. Gutierrez was among
several Democrats to sign on as a sponsor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. SCOTT
APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 TAMIKA MOORE/BIRMINGHAM NEWS, VIA A.P.)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 267 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           December 1, 2011 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Twist to Latest Case Involving Mob and Strippers

BYLINE: By AL BAKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 551 words


That New York's strip clubs have been inhabited by entrepreneurial mobsters is
nothing new.

But the latest suspected criminal enterprise involving a band of Mafia members,
soldiers and associates has expanded the business model to international levels,
in a scheme the authorities say was designed to dominate an empire of strip
clubs across Manhattan, Queens and Long Island.

At its core, the operation centered on men with nicknames like the Grandfather,
Perry Como and Tommy D. pushing an enterprise to recruit women from Russia and
other Eastern European countries to enter the United States illegally to work as
exotic dancers.

In all, 20 people were arrested on Wednesday and accused of criminal activity
that included racketeering, extortion and immigration and marriage fraud. The
defendants included seven men said to be linked to the Gambino and Bonnano crime
families, the authorities said.

The suspected enterprise helped the women fraudulently obtain non-immigrant
visas, often provided housing and transportation, and then set them up to dance
at the topless clubs in violation of those visas. The women - who worked at
places including Cheetahs in Midtown Manhattan; Rouge in Maspeth, Queens; and
the Scene in Commack, Suffolk County - became ''personal profit centers'' for
the defendants, according to Preet Bharara, the United States attorney in
Manhattan.

An indictment outlined the accusations in four of the strip clubs, but did not
name them. A federal law enforcement official said that nine strip clubs in the
metropolitan area were involved, including Gallagher's and Perfection, both in
Queens.

At times, the enterprise drew money from the clubs by threatening violence,
court papers said. At other times, they offered protection from others in the
stripper industry or mob underworld, they said. Sometimes, the organized crime
members, or others, were stationed at the clubs. The members of the enterprise
also resolved disputes about which clubs the women would work in, the court
papers said, and which members would control or receive payments from which
clubs.

At times, ''several of the defendants also arranged for many of the women to
enter into sham marriages with U.S. citizens,'' according to a statement from
Mr. Bharara's office.

The arrests were announced by Mr. Bharara and by the New York offices of the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement's Homeland Security Investigations and the
State Department's Diplomatic Security Service.

''Today's arrests bring to an end a longstanding criminal enterprise operated by
colluding organized crime entities that profited wildly through a combination of
extortion and fraud,'' said James T. Hayes Jr., the immigration agency's special
agent in charge. ''As alleged, the defendants controlled their business and
protected their turf through intimidation and threats of physical and economic
harm. Today, that business model has been extinguished.''

It was not immediately clear how many women were entangled with the enterprise,
or what would happen to them. The defendants appeared Wednesday in federal court
in Manhattan, officials said. The case, they said, had been assigned to Federal
District Judge Victor Marrero.

Joseph Goldstein contributed reporting.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zhanna Kuznetsova, one of the 20 people arrested on Wednesday.
Seven of the defendants are said to have ties to the Mafia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN
MARSHALL MANTEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2011 The New York Times Company
