
                               1 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Conferees Approve a Tough Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


House and Senate negotiators today approved an immigration bill that stiffens
border enforcement, speeds the deportation of aliens who are criminals and
restricts public benefits to legal immigrants.

But, bowing to Democratic pressure, Republican leaders in Congress dropped a
provision to allow states to bar children who are illegal immigrants from public
schools. That provision will be changed to exempt all illegal immigrant children
who are enrolled in school as of next July, and will be voted on as a separate
bill. Several other measures progressed through Congress, although many included
an element of politics as well as substance. [Page A19.]

In a contentious meeting at the Capitol, virtually every Democrat on the
conference committee criticized several provisions in the immigration bill that
they said would hurt legal immigrants. Among them were provisions allowing legal
immigrants to be deported if they used more than 12 months of public benefits.
Another would bar legal immigrants infected with the AIDS virus from receiving
publicly financed health treatment.

Democrats also denounced the way Republicans wrote the final bill and then
presented it to them as a take-it-or-leave-it proposal. Democratic lawmakers
were excluded from the negotiations.

In an unusual move, Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who headed
the conference committee, announced that he would allow each lawmaker to make a
statement, but to save time he refused to allow any amendments, debate or
questions about the final bill. Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the ranking Senate
Republican on the committee, supported Mr. Smith's decision.

"This has been an absolute degradation of the legislative process," said
Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat.

Even Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, a Republican who has played a prominent
role in shaping immigration legislation, lamented the lack of bipartisanship
that guided previous immigration bills in 1986 and 1990. "The word 'compromise'
does not mean 'wimp,' " said Mr. Simpson, who is retiring this year.

Only one Senate Democrat, Dianne Feinstein of California, signed the conference
report. Despite some reservations, Senator Feinstein said she backed the bill
because "this is our last chance to show we can stop illegal immigration at the
border."

Republican leaders said the House would probably consider the conference report
on Wednesday. But House and Senate leaders were discussing with President
Clinton's aides the possibility of wrapping the immigration legislation into a
catch-all spending bill that the White House and Congress are negotiating.

This could allow Democrats to change provisions in the bill they dislike. It
would also permit Republicans to deny Mr. Clinton a separate immigration
bill-signing ceremony.

The demise of the education provision that would have banned illegal immigrant
children from public school marks a setback for Bob Dole, who had supported the
measure. Earlier this month, Mr. Dole's campaign manager rebuffed requests from
senior Republicans to drop the provision from the overall bill.

Any bill with the education provision faced a Democratic-led, bipartisan
filibuster and a veto threat from the President. Mr. Dole had hoped to use Mr.
Clinton's objection to portray the Administration as blocking a popular
immigration bill. But the strategy backfired when many Republicans, particularly
those in states with many illegal immigrants, like California, decided it better
served their interests to have an immigration bill approved.

Mr. Dole tried to repair the damage today, releasing a letter he sent late
Monday to Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia and Trent Lott of Mississippi, the
Senate majority leader. In the letter, Mr. Dole recommended dropping the
education measure and voting on it separately, a reversal of his position just
two weeks ago.

Mr. Lott's office received the letter at 8 P.M. on Monday, said the Senator's
spokeswoman, Susan Irby, long after Republicans had already agreed on the major
concession.

Even without the education provision, Mr. Smith, the author of the House bill,
said the legislation "secures America's borders, penalizes alien smugglers,
streamlines removal of criminal and illegal aliens and ends non-citizens' abuse
of the welfare system."

But Democrats criticized a number of Republican provisions that they said hurts
legal immigrants and refugees or helps big companies and wealthy Americans.

Under the bill, immigrants seeking asylum here without proper travel documents
could be deported with little or no review.

Critics said the bill also weakens anti-discrimination provisions protecting
legal workers and deletes enhanced penalties against employers who hire illegal
immigrants. But a furor after the conference meeting forced Republicans to
restore a ban on allowing the re-entry of wealthy Americans who renounce their
citizenship to avoid paying back taxes.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Senators Vote to Cut Off Benefits for Legal Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 7;   Column 5;   National Desk

LENGTH: 987 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 19


The Senate voted today to deny most Federal benefits and social services to
legal immigrants who have yet to become citizens, and it blocked Democratic
efforts to aid children in families who lose public assistance under a welfare
bill moving swiftly through Congress.

Senators also defeated a proposal that would have required the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to study whether the legislation, if passed, causes an
increase in poverty among children in the next two years. The proposal would
have required the Secretary to suggest ways of halting any such increase.

With today's actions, the Senate seems destined to follow the lead of the House,
which approved legislation to overhaul the nation's welfare laws by a vote of
256 to 170 on Thursday. The Senate is expected to vote on its version on
Tuesday.

Both measures would repeal the longstanding Federal guarantee of cash assistance
for poor children and instead give each state a lump sum of money to run its own
welfare and work programs.

Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said today that
"it's too early to tell" if the welfare bill will be acceptable to President
Clinton. Democrats have proposed many amendments to soften the bill's impact on
destitute children.

If many of those amendments are adopted, Mr. Daschle said, "there could be some
strong Democratic support for this bill." But if they are rejected, he said, "a
large percentage, perhaps almost all Democrats, will vote against it."

Mr. Clinton's frequent shifts of emphasis have baffled and frustrated
Republicans. Senator Larry E. Craig of Idaho, chairman of the Republican Policy
Committee, said, "Whether or not President Clinton signs or vetoes welfare
reform at this point is anybody's guess."

Today's votes did little to address concerns expressed by Mr. Clinton.

The Senate, for example, rejected a proposal to require states to provide
vouchers to meet "the basic subsistence needs" of children in families who would
be removed from the rolls because of a five-year limit on welfare payments. The
vouchers could have been redeemed for diapers, cribs, clothing and other goods
and services.

The proposal was considered as part of a large bill to reduce the Federal budget
deficit, and under special Senate rules for budget bills, it needed at least 60
votes. Though endorsed today by a vote of 51 to 47, the proposal for vouchers
failed because it did not secure the necessary majority.

Senator John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, who offered the amendment on
vouchers, said: "Everybody knows we should put work first. But in doing that, we
shouldn't put children last. I'm afraid the Republican bill, without my
amendment, does exactly that. We should not be punishing the children for what
the parents have not done correctly."

Republicans said the vouchers would undermine the five-year limit by allowing
children to receive aid for much longer. "Welfare recipients must understand
that public assistance is temporary, not a way of life," said Senator William V.
Roth Jr., Republican of Delaware, who noted that states could use their own
money for vouchers.

By a vote of 62 to 34, the Senate killed a proposal by Senator Bob Graham,
Democrat of Florida, to preserve welfare, food stamps, Medicaid and other
benefits for legal immigrants. Nearly 30 percent of the bill's savings -- $18
billion of $61 billion over six years -- would be achieved by denying such aid
to legal immigrants.

Republicans said the restrictions were justified because when immigrants come to
the United States, they promise not to depend on public assistance. Senator Rick
Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, said this country was becoming a
retirement haven for elderly immigrants who quickly sign up for Supplemental
Security Income benefits after they arrive.

"We have seen a real pattern of abuse," Mr. Santorum said.

But Senator Graham said the Republican bill would impose immense new costs on
Florida, New York, California, Texas, Illinois and other states with large
numbers of legal immigrants. For example, he said, public hospitals would still
treat legal immigrants with low incomes, but the hospitals would receive no
reimbursement because such immigrants would be ineligible for Medicaid and
cannot afford private health insurance.

It is not entirely clear what benefits would be available to children born in
this country to immigrants. Such children are United States citizens and could
receive Medicaid cards, school lunch subsidies and, in some cases, the child's
portion of welfare benefits as well. But the details would almost certainly need
to be clarified through regulations.

Democrats savored one clear victory. By a vote of 96 to 0, the Senate reinstated
requirements for states to set basic health and safety standards for day care
centers receiving Federal aid. The original version of the bill offered by
Senate Republicans would have repealed these protections, established in 1990.

Senator Daniel R. Coats, Republican of Indiana, said the repeal had apparently
been included in the bill by error, but he did not give details.

Many Democrats, having accepted the idea of eliminating the entitlement to cash
assistance for poor children, enthusiastically joined President Clinton in the
fight for vouchers.

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, a New York Democrat harshly critical of the
overall bill, suggested that priorities had gone awry. "We learn in the press
that the President is concerned that there be vouchers made available for
diapers," Mr. Moynihan said. "This is commendable, but scarcely a suggestion
that something fundamental is about to happen."

If the Federal guarantee is ended, Mr. Moynihan said, "we will be making cruelty
to children an instrument of social policy, we will have children sleeping on
grates" and there will be "an urban crisis unlike anything we have known since
the 1960's."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mayor Widens Attack on Cuts To Welfare

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1210 words

DATELINE: MINNEAPOLIS, Sept. 30


Significantly broadening his attack on the new Federal welfare law, Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani said today that the law's denial of many social services to
legal immigrants was both morally wrong and unconstitutional.

Speaking to a conference on immigration at the University of Minnesota here, the
Mayor accused Congress and the President of trying to limit immigration by
making the lives of immigrants miserable and thus discouraging them from coming
to the United States. That approach is not only inhumane, he said, but also
violates the due-process clause of the Fifth Amendment. In response, New York
City plans to file a lawsuit challenging the law on those grounds, he said.

"It sets a very, very unfair tone for America," he said. "It is basically unfair
and irrational discrimination to say, 'We'll let you in, we'll take your money,
we'll treat you exactly like a citizen for the purpose of extracting your
wealth, but we won't treat you that way for the purposes of giving out
benefits.' And I am hopeful that the courts will agree with us. "

The Mayor actually supports the most important elements of the welfare law,
including its workfare requirements and its cutoff of most aid after five years.
But in opposing the elimination of benefits for legal immigrants, the Mayor is
taking aim at the provision that would account for much of the anticipated
savings in the new law -- about 44 percent of the total savings of $54.6 billion
over six years.

Earlier this month, Mr. Giuliani announced plans to file suit against a
provision of the welfare law that allows city employees to turn in illegal
immigrants who seek services like police protection, hospital care and public
education. That provision overturns a New York City executive order in effect
since 1985 that forbids city employees from reporting illegal immigrants. The
Mayor said today that he plans to file that lawsuit shortly and that he has been
talking with other cities, including Chicago, about joining the suit.

The suit he announced today, however, would be a separate and far broader legal
challenge to the law's provisions regarding legal immigrants. The law, signed in
August by President Clinton, bans most immigrants admitted legally to the United
States from receiving food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, which
provides benefits for the elderly and the disabled poor. In compliance with the
law, New York City and New York State began cutting off legal immigrants from
those benefits last week.

The law also denies public assistance, including welfare and Medicaid, to legal
immigrants for the first five years they spend in the United States.

The Mayor said such provisions were approved by Congress and the President
because it is an election year, and because there is a tide of anti-immigration
sentiment across the nation that he compared to the Know-Nothing movement of the
mid-19th century. To counter that tide, he said, he plans to make similar
speeches across the country, reminding Americans of the virtues of immigration
and building a political climate to change the welfare bill.

"You have to build a national movement to do that," he said at a news conference
after the speech. "All that's been heard on immigration are the problems of
immigration. It's basically dominated the American political debate for the last
two to three years.

"Well, you have to expect that politicians are going to react to that. It is
possible to change that. Because there is in America a very deep appreciation of
immigration. Americans understand what I just said, when they hear it. If
they're not reminded of it, they respond from fear."

Federal courts, the Mayor said, have held that the Fifth Amendment's due-process
clause protects people from invidious discrimination. He said the city would
argue that the Government had no valid reason for discriminating against legal
immigrants by cutting off aid.

While the United States Supreme Court has ruled on several cases involving
services for immigrants, several advocates for immigrants said the earlier
decisions offered little insight into how the new suits would fare, in part
because the new restrictions against immigrants, both legal and illegal, are
more sweeping than in previous laws.

In two earlier cases, the Supreme Court found unconstitutional state
restrictions on services to immigrants, saying they violated immigrants' rights
of equal protection. But in another case, the court upheld a Federal law
imposing a five-year residency requirement on legal immigrants seeking Medicare.
The court found that Congress had more authority to limit government services to
immigrants than did the states.

Mr. Giuliani's remarks today appeared to be warmly received by most of the 300
participants at the conference, "The New Immigrants," sponsored by the
University's Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs. Mayor Norm Coleman
of neighboring St. Paul, where Laotians are now one of the largest groups of
minorities, said he was impressed enough with Mr. Giuliani's remarks to consider
joining one or both of the lawsuits, and he said his city attorney would shortly
be contacting New York City's corporation counsel.

But several of the experts on immigration who also spoke at the conference --
which marks the 150th anniversary of Swedish immigration to Minnesota -- took
issue with Mr. Giuliani's rosy appraisal of the effect of immigration and his
complaints about the welfare law. George Borjas, professor of public policy at
the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University and the author of
four books on immigration, said he believed the Government was right to limit
benefits to legal immigrants.

"It's important to deter the people who come here for welfare," said Professor
Borjas, a native of Cuba who grew up in Hoboken, N.J. "There's nothing wrong
with using devices like a waiting period for that purpose."

Romano L. Mazzoli, a former United States Representative from Kentucky who was
chairman of the House Immigration Subcommittee for 12 years, said the Mayor had
not adequately assessed the costs and problems of immigration, particularly
outside of New York.

"His message has poetry in it," Mr. Mazzoli said. "It has Emma Lazarus in it.
But if you overlook the flaws and the problems, you could lose that poetry. We
have to better address the costs of immigration to the American people, or else
in the end the Mayor will lose his case."

The Mayor acknowledged that it costs money to educate and care for immigrants,
and he said he understood that cities without New York's long tradition of
immigration might find it difficult to understand his position. But he said that
in the end, the energy and industry of immigrants outweighed the public costs.

Mr. Giuliani also refused to endorse a proposal made last week by Gov. George E.
Pataki that would impose a 90-day limit on Home Relief, the state and city
assistance program mostly for able-bodied adults without children. The Governor
said the cutoff was needed because of the burden that would fall on the state
once the Federal welfare denials go into effect. But the Mayor said he would
have to study the idea more closely in light of the "changed landscape" of the
Federal law.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani attacked the new welfare law yesterday
in a speech in Minneapolis. (The Associated Press)(pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 28, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

California Governor Cuts Off Aid for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1169 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Aug. 27


Moving aggressively under the new Federal welfare law to cut off state services
to illegal immigrants, Gov. Pete Wilson today signed an executive order ending
those immigrants' access to benefits ranging from public housing to prenatal
care and child abuse prevention programs.

State officials said the Federal legislation, which President Clinton signed
into law last Thursday, had won them a partial but important triumph in their
struggle to enforce the provisions of Proposition 187. That ballot initiative,
denying state services to people who enter the United States illegally, was
approved overwhelmingly by California voters in 1994 but has been enjoined by
court order since then.

Neither the new Federal welfare act nor the Governor's order, the first of its
kind in the nation to result from the law, bars illegal immigrants from public
primary or secondary schools, as the ballot initiative was supposed to. Nor does
it keep them from emergency health care.

But officials said the new restrictions would cover hundreds of other state
services and programs, including many, like the issuance of licenses, that were
not contemplated under the initiative.

"Today's executive order, I think, is a vindication, as is the act itself," Mr.
Wilson said in a signing ceremony at the State Capitol in Sacramento. Both
steps, he said, answer Californians' demand "that the Federal Government end the
magnetic lure of public services and benefits that have substantially spawned
our national crisis of illegal immigration."

But like Proposition 187, the Governor's order was immediately met by the threat
of challenges in the courts.

Civil rights advocates argued that the state government had jumped the gun by
failing to wait for regulations that, under the new Federal statute, the Justice
Department must issue within the next 18 months on how the immigration status of
people applying for services should be verified. Mr. Wilson, these opponents
said, has in effect usurped Federal jurisdiction over the country's immigration
laws by authorizing almost any state employee to begin asking the people they
serve whether they entered the United States legally.

"If they try to implement any part of this tomorrow, we will be in court at
12:01," said Mark Rosenbaum, the legal director of the American Civil Liberties
Union of Southern California, one of the lawyers who won a Federal injunction
against Proposition 187 last November.

Opponents of the Governor's order maintained that it would promote
discrimination against anyone who might appear to be an immigrant to inquiring
state employees. And, they said by restricting access to primary health care it
would send illegal immigrants flooding into hospital emergency rooms, thus
raising taxpayers' health costs rather than reducing them, and might ultimately
pose a public health emergency.

Mr. Wilson, an ardent supporter of Proposition 187, has led a small but
influential group of governors in demanding both Federal compensation for the
cost incurred by states in helping illegal immigrants and the right to cut off
services to them.

In issuing his order today, he acted under a provision of the new Federal law
that makes illegal immigrants ineligible for all state and Federal benefits
except a few specific services like emergency medical care, immunization
programs and emergency disaster relief. The Federal law allows the states to
extend assistance to illegal immigrants only by enacting a new state law "which
affirmatively provides for such eligibility."

The Governor's order does not affect legal immigrants, Most of them are to lose
their eligibility for food stamps, disability assistance and other benefits
under the new law. In addition, the law gives states the option to cut off
Medicaid to most legal immigrants, and Mr. Wilson said before its passage that
he supported that provision.

As for illegal immigrants, they are already barred from access to most benefit
programs, including cash assistance, food stamps and nonemergency Medicaid care.

Mr. Wilson's order goes much further. Although state officials said today that
they did not yet have a full listing of the programs affected or how much money
the new restrictions might save, the Governor's chief spokesman, Sean T. Walsh,
said the order would bar illegal immigrants from long-term health care and all
professional and commercial licenses. In addition, it would bar them from
admission to state colleges and universities unless they paid the full cost of
their education.

One other set of state programs covered is prenatal care, run by the state's
Health and Welfare Agency. A spokeswoman there, Lisa Kalustian, said the
prenatal care programs alone served more than 70,000 illegal immigrants a year,
at a cost of $69.3 million.

Mr. Walsh said that under the Governor's order, some of the assistance now
available to illegal immigrants "could be cut off tomorrow, or within a week."
He said it was more realistic, however, to expect any cutoff to become effective
within 30 to 60 days.

Some immigrants-rights advocates said they agreed that most of the restrictions
expected to result from Mr. Wilson's order would eventually be allowed under the
Federal legislation in any case.

"The welfare bill does explicitly give the states the right to do almost
anything they want on this, and Wilson is doing it in a very political way,"
said Cecilia Munoz, an official of the National Council of La Raza, an umbrella
organization of Hispanic groups. But she cautioned that the move would carry
high costs, in more than one way.

"These kinds of things cost much more to implement than they save," Ms. Munoz
said. "And anybody with the wrong last name is immediately suspect. If somebody
like me applies for a cosmetology license, I could be denied access to things I
have a right to, because of my ethnicity. And I am a U.S. citizen."

Lawyers involved in the battle to keep Proposition 187 from taking effect said
they believed that the injunction against it, issued last year by a Federal
district judge, Mariana R. Pfaelzer, would at least hinder implementation of
those parts of the new welfare law dealing with illegal immigrants. The lawyers
noted that the injunction specifically barred state employees from asking the
immigration status of people they suspect of having entered the country
illegally.

The welfare law stipulates that the Attorney General will issue regulations
within 18 months about how Government agencies may screen applicants for Federal
benefits, and that states should issue their own, complementary rules within 24
months after that.

"In order to deny anybody anything, you have to make a determination about
someone's legal status, and under the welfare bill there is an elaborate process
set up for the development of a reliable verification process by Federal
personnel," Mr. Rosenbaum said. "The cornerstone of the 187 injunction is that
state personnel cannot act as immigration agents."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Legacy of Immigrants' Uprising: New Jail Operator, Little Change

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY and CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2708 words


After a melee erupted at a detention center for illegal immigrants in Elizabeth,
N.J., a year ago, the Immigration and Naturalization Service pronounced the
center a double failure: the private company that ran it for the Government did
so with underpaid, poorly trained guards who harassed and degraded immigrants,
and the immigration service itself fumbled its supervisory role.

Yet as the immigration service prepares to reopen the New Jersey center as part
of a national expansion of detention space for illegal immigrants, no
immigration official has been disciplined because of the disturbance, which
resulted in heavy property damage, and a criminal investigation has produced no
charges. In addition, the I.N.S. allowed the company that ran the jail, Esmor
Correctional Services, to recoup $6.2 million by selling its contract to a new
concern that will take over the operation.

Immigration officials have pointedly blamed Esmor for keeping agency managers in
the dark about conditions that provoked the disturbance, and they now say they
have learned a lesson about overseeing contractors. But interviews with
officials of the immigration service and Esmor suggest that new safeguards
planned for the reopened center in the fall are similar in many ways to the old
center's operations.

Indeed, the immigration service was in a position to know virtually every detail
about life inside the jail under Esmor, where one agency official recalls that
he routinely roamed the halls talking freely with detainees.

More than a dozen immigration supervisors and officers worked at the center
daily, the official said. And the 420-page Government contract with Esmor gave
Federal officials complete access to all records kept by the company about
operation of the jail.

Immigration officials portray the New Jersey center as an aberration, but
advocates for immigrants say that the callous treatment of detainees and
prolonged stays there, while extreme, are not unusual in the sprawling,
sometimes overcrowded detention system.

"It was probably the worst of a common set of problems," Margaret H. Taylor, an
associate professor of law at the Wake Forest University School of Law, who has
studied I.N.S. detention, said of Esmor. "It's a chaotic detention system and
they're still trying to come to grips with it."

Nationally there are 13 centers where illegal immigrants or asylum seekers are
held while they await the outcome of their legal cases, most run by the
Government, a few by private contractors. In addition, the Government pays many
state and local jurisdictions large sums to house detainees.

Although Federal officials called the uprising in New Jersey the worst
disturbance ever at a privately run immigration jail, it is unclear a year later
what official fallout, if any, resulted from it.

"In my opinion, Esmor was a national scandal and I just don't see the
accountability for it," said Warren R. Leiden, the executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association and a member of the United States
Commission on Immigration Reform, which is appointed by Congress. "There is no
tradition of holding supervisors responsible in the immigration department. It's
no one's fault. The horse let himself out of the barn, right?"

Although there was no management shake-up, T. Alexander Aleinikoff, an executive
associate commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said that
immigration officials involved with Esmor, particularly in the Newark district,
have learned from the mistakes laid out in the immigration service's critical
evaluation of Esmor's management of the jail.

"I think the district paid a tremendous price," Mr. Aleinikoff said. "It got bad
publicity. Headquarters issued a blistering report. We think that report has
great pedagogical value."

He predicted that the reopened jail would be a much better place because of "a
better contract, better I.N.S. supervision and more public scrutiny."

Agency officials decided against disciplining Esmor. Though they described a
list of contract violations by the company, they neither declared the company in
default of its contract nor canceled the agreement when it came up for renewal
last August. Instead, immigration officials, fearing a lawsuit by Esmor and a
lengthy bidding process to find a new contractor, allowed the company to sell
the contract.

"They would have pointed fingers at us," said Mr. Aleinikoff, a law professor on
leave from the University of Michigan. "We would have pointed fingers at them.
It's better to have a clean break."

In the last decade, the capacity of the detention system has more than doubled,
to 8,400, and is expected to reach almost 10,000 next year. Immigration
officials are bracing for a surge in the demand for detention space because of
the new anti-terrorism law mandating the deportation of thousands of noncitizen
residents with criminal records.

To cope with the numbers, the agency is financing a pilot program in New York of
supervised release for immigrants who do not appear to pose a flight risk, an
approach it hopes to use nationally to produce a more rational, efficient
system.

Whatever plans Washington officials have for improving the system, problems
remain.

Inquiries

I.N.S. Is Accused Of Deception

A Federal investigation disclosed two weeks ago that I.N.S. managers had
deceived visiting members of Congress about crowded conditions at a Miami
detention center. Just before the House members flew into Miami last July, the
immigration service transferred or released a quarter of the detainees from the
Krome detention center, including some with criminal records.

Tipped by disgruntled employees, Department of Justice investigators say they
found a cover-up: incriminating computer messages vanished and officials denied
they were trying to gloss over problems in the detention system.

A month after the disturbance in Elizabeth, the immigration service issued a
report saying that because of Esmor's policy of withholding information from
agency officials, "the service had little knowledge of specific problems or
concerns of detainees in the custody of Esmor."

But the picture of the jail that emerges now from officials and detainees who
were there suggests that immigration officials were in a position to be aware of
much that was going on.

In November 1994, three months after the jail opened, dozens of detainees
protested conditions by going on a hunger strike and hanging signs from windows.
Some of them said that Michael D. Rozos, who was both the agency official in
charge at Esmor and the contract compliance officer, met with them and heard
their complaints of abusive treatment by guards, bad food, lights left on while
they tried to sleep at night and the slow progress of their immigration cases.

Mr. Rozos said in a written reply to questions that he often spoke to detainees,
investigated their complaints and acted upon them if they were justified.

But Mr. Rozos also said he was given too many responsibilities as the person
charged with overseeing compliance with a complex contract as well as the
day-to-day operations of the immigration service at the jail. He also said Esmor
officials were not keeping him informed and resisted his advice.

"I think it was impossible for me to adequately oversee the contract and the
facility," he said.

The immigration service's own report on the disturbance was sharply critical of
how the Newark district managed oversight of Esmor, saying it piled too many
tasks on Mr. Rozos and allowed too much turnover among senior I.N.S. managers
there.

Norman Uzzle, who succeeded Mr. Rozos in March 1995 as the contract compliance
officer at Esmor, said detainees complained often about food, lights being left
on at night and delays in the legal process, but rarely about abusive guards. He
said he had not detected a pattern of abuse and harassment by guards, a pattern
reported by the immigration service after the disturbance.

"Every complaint made to me that was possibly legitimate, I notified Esmor of in
writing and a copy was sent to the regional office," Mr. Uzzle said. The I.N.S.
report called Mr. Uzzle an "exemplary" officer, but it said he lacked experience
in detention.

Mr. Rozos, Mr. Uzzle and James F. Slattery, president of Esmor, said the
dominant frustration among detainees had to do with the slowness of the
immigration process itself, particularly delays in getting hearings before
judges who worked for a different section of the Justice Department, the
Executive Office for Immigration Review.

Both Mr. Uzzle and Mr. Slattery said the jail was a clean, relatively pleasant
place and that if detainees were segregated, shackled or strip-searched it was
generally for legitimate disciplinary or security reasons.

Mr. Uzzle said he did tell the investigative team that came in after the
disturbance that an Esmor official had told him it was corporate practice to
keep the I.N.S. in the dark. "There were problems, but we were ironing them
out," Mr. Uzzle said recently.

The relatively harmonious depiction of the situation at Esmor presented by Mr.
Uzzle and Mr. Slattery diverges sharply from the Kafkaesque view expressed by
detainees, some of whom are plaintiffs in a lawsuit soon to be filed against
Esmor and I.N.S. officials by the Constitutional Litigation Clinic at the
Rutgers School of Law.

The detainees say they were arbitrarily subjected to strip searches and
beatings, were at times ordered into solitary confinement for no reason, were
served food that was not fresh and given soiled clothes, were made to sleep with
lights on all the time, and had money and jewelry taken from them, never to be
returned.

Joseph Ackah, an asylum seeker from Ghana, for example, said he was shackled to
a bed in a small windowless room for 15 days after a guard falsely accused him
of breaking a toilet plunger.

Mr. Uzzle, a career I.N.S. employee who started out 18 years ago in the border
patrol, said the detainees' stories were not all believable. "These people all
attempted to enter the country illegally," he said. "You have to take what they
say based on the fact that they have already lied to officers of the service."

On June 18, detainees took over the jail and went on a rampage, pulling doors
off their hinges, smashing windows and sinks, tearing chairs apart. The service
said the melee was sparked by an escape attempt and fueled by detainees' anger
about detention conditions.

The Esmor guards abandoned their posts and called 911, the immigration service
later reported. Five hours after the disturbance began, police swarmed into the
jail and gained control.

Many of the detainees' precious documents -- the birth certificates, newspaper
clippings, letters and other papers that were the evidentiary basis for their
hopes of winning asylum in the United States -- were thrown away and in some
cases taken from them as they left the jail, said Joyce Phipps, staff attorney
with El Centro Hispanoamericano, an immigrant assistance organization in
Plainfield, N.J.

Immigration officials said many of the papers were destroyed in flooding caused
by the destruction to property during the disturbance. They did not see guards
or the police stripping detainees of their papers.

Ms. Phipps went to Federal court and won permission to pick through trash
containers. "We saved approximately eight Xerox boxes filled with documents that
belong to people," she said.

Fallout

Less 'Conduct' Than 'Performance'

After the disturbance, the jail was closed for repairs and the 315 detainees
were transferred. The F.B.I. in Newark investigated and reported to the Civil
Rights Division of the Justice Department, but no charges were filed.

The only people prosecuted for the treatment of detainees were 12 correction
officers at the Union County Jail, where some detainees were taken after the
disturbance. County prosecutors said that officers had beaten and kicked
detainees, dunked their heads in toilets and pulled out their hair with pliers,
and that other officers had tried to cover up the incidents.

Esmor's stock plunged -- but only for a while. It hit a low of $7 a share, but
rebounded to just over $20. And the company continues to work for the
Government, including the I.N.S., for which it runs a detention center in
Seattle.

Within the I.N.S., no one responsible for overseeing Esmor was disciplined,
agency officials said. Both Mr. Uzzle and Mr. Rozos transferred out of the
Newark division for reasons that were unrelated to Esmor, said Carole D. Chasse,
the immigration agency's Eastern regional director. And none of their
supervisors were disciplined.

"I think this issue is not as much conduct as performance," Ms. Chasse said of
Esmor. "It wasn't necessarily misconduct as it is people may not have performed
as well as you might have hoped."

She said Mr. Rozos, in particular, had been "very attentive."

A few days after she defended her subordinates at Esmor, and after disclosure of
the attempt to deceive the Congressional delegation visiting Miami -- which is
in the Eastern region -- Ms. Chasse was relieved of her regional director's job.

She denied wrongdoing, but the Justice Department report said she was aware that
the Krome center was so overcrowded that it "could develop into an emergency."
The report, which recommended her suspension or termination, said her denials of
approving the release and transfer of detainees to cover up conditions were not
credible.

After the disturbance in New Jersey, officials said the agency decided that the
quickest way to return the detention center to operation was to let Esmor sell
the contract.

Esmor sold the rights, the lease and the center's equipment for $6.2 million to
the Corrections Corporation of America, according to documents filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Mr. Slattery, Esmor's president, said the
company "didn't lose significant money" on its Elizabeth operation, because of
the sale.

Representative Robert Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat who warned the I.N.S.
about problems with Esmor, said he was surprised that the company came through
virtually unscathed financially.

"I think it's the wrong public policy for someone to walk away with $6 million
when they haven't done the right thing," he said.

Challenges

A 'Hodgepodge' Becomes Lucrative

Detaining immigrants believed to be in the country illegally is a task whose
growth seems to have crept up on the immigration service. Its detention manual
is 16 years old. Officials say the system works, but immigrants' advocates say
the conditions of confinement vary widely.

The immigration service operates nine of its own detention centers, including
Krome in Miami. Four jails are run privately for the service, including the one
in Seattle operated by Esmor.

The agency also rents thousands of beds in hundreds of state and local jails
nationwide and formally inspects them just once a year. Many of those jails are
far from large urban areas where immigrants would have a better chance of
finding lawyers experieneced in immigration law, advocates say.

And detention of immigrants is becoming a lucrative business. In Pennsylvania,
York County is planning a 500-bed addition to its local prison just to rent to
the immigration service. The county now houses 350 immigrants and is making a
tidy profit on each detainee. "It costs us about $24 a day to house them and the
I.N.S. pays us $50," said Christopher B. Reilly, a county commisioner.

Peter Schey, a California lawyer handling a class-action suit seeking improved
conditions for detainees, says the quality of detention is uneven because the
agency is decentralized and the detention system is governed by a "hodgepodge of
policies" rather than a set of uniform regulations.

With a political climate that is increasingly hostile to immigration, and
growing demands for detention, the New Jersey episode remains a cautionary tale
for immigration officials.

After the disturbance, said Mr. Alienikoff, the agency's executive associate
commissioner, "We basically said, 'How on earth could this have happened?' We
got in there and discovered a lot of things went wrong."

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: FAILURES WITHOUT PENALTY -- First of two articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Detainees were taken into police custody in June 1995 after an
uprising at an immigration jail in Elizabeth, N.J., run by Esmor Correctional
Services. The jail has been closed since then, and a new company will be running
it when it reopens in the fall. (CBS); The Esmor emblem will no longer be seen
at the immigration jail in Elizabeth. (NJN) (pg. 18)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 1, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Undertow for the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By Matthew Miller;   Matthew Miller, a senior editor at The New
Republic, writes often about politics and economic policy.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 35;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Just as California's Proposition 13 in 1978 ushered in the anti-tax wave
Republicans have ridden to this day, the state's backlash against immigration
and affirmative action was supposed to energize enough "angry white men" to bury
Democrats for a decade. But these so-called wedge issues are not helping
Republican Congressional candidates here. In fact, they're laying the groundwork
for erosion of the Republican base in the nation's pivotal electoral state.

Blame Pete Wilson and Newt Gingrich. Republican strategists misread the meaning
of Mr. Wilson's come-from-behind romp over Kathleen Brown in the 1994 race for
Governor. Yes, Mr. Wilson's disciplined campaign, tied to Proposition 187's call
for ending government benefits to illegal immigrants, was effective. But lost
amid the excitement was the fact that Ms. Brown's own weaknesses were more
decisive.

Nonetheless, Republicans apparently thought all they needed in 1996 was another
wedge issue like Proposition 187 to help their candidates. Thus their use of the
California Civil Rights Initiative, which would bar state and local governments
from using quotas or preferences based on race, ethnicity and sex.

But the Republicans have been outflanked. President Clinton's moves to address
legitimate concerns about immigration have inoculated Democrats down the ballot.
Mr. Clinton's campaign ads here boast of border patrols and surveillance beefed
up on his watch. The Immigration and Naturalization Service has just announced
record numbers of deportations from the state.

On affirmative action, Mr. Clinton's "mend it, don't end it" straddle has helped
out Democratic candidates on the stump. And though polls suggest that the
initiative, Proposition 209, will pass, for Republican candidates there's no
percentage in being tied to it. A new Field Poll here shows that opposition to
the civil rights initiative has risen by nine percentage points since Bob Dole
and the G.O.P. embraced it.

It turns out that affirmative action doesn't resonate with voters the way
immigration does. Since 1990, a third of Californians have routinely told
pollsters that immigration is a big problem, especially in the southern part of
the state. "People see immigration as an issue every day in their lives as they
drive around," said Representative Henry Waxman, a Los Angeles Democrat. "It's
an issue that's brought out emotion in people."

Affirmative action, involving state procurement and agency jobs, has a narrower
impact. Bill Carrick, senior adviser to the Clinton campaign here, says that of
25 statewide surveys he's seen, not one has turned up a significant percentage
of voters who are seriously concerned about quotas or set-asides. A G.O.P.
analyst, Tony Quinn, acknowledged that state Republican candidates aren't using
Proposition 209 as an issue because "nobody is interested in it."

The Republicans' wedge strategy has another problem: It drives away educated
female swing voters. Women have benefited from affirmative action, and the
proposal also evokes the "meanness" they may already associate with Newt
Gingrich's party. So while Republican candidates support the measure, few say
much about it. Last week, Mr. Waxman's Republican challenger, Paul Stepanek,
even endorsed Mr. Clinton.

Despite efforts by individual candidates to soft-pedal the initiative,
last-minute advertising in favor of it will aim at shoring up support among the
"angry white men." But for Mr. Dole and the Republicans, hopes of a bailout by
these voters looks a lot like California dreamin'.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 20, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Detainees' Release Is Sweet Outrage

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 185 words


To the Editor:

President Clinton's decision to release the final 53 Chinese immigrants detained
after their ship, the Golden Venture, ran aground off Queens in 1993 (news
articles, Feb. 15 and 17) is a sweet outrage.

It is sweet because so many have fought so hard for so long for these people to
see freedom.

It is an outrage because at this moment the Clinton Administration is working
hard to meet a March 2 deadline for regulations under the Illegal Immigration
Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 that would deport virtually all
smuggled passengers from the United States within hours of their arrival.

The law marks a draconian change from the past in many areas of immigration law.

Just when the Clinton Administration is supposed to be cracking down, it is
cracking up. At a minimum, the decision is ill timed and sends a mixed message
about the Administration's resolve to the 450,000 undocumented aliens in New
York City, for example, who are trying to figure out their future.

MARK E. NERENBERG
New York, Feb. 17, 1997

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 21, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New Managers and Promises, as Immigrant Detention Center Reopens

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1018 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Jan. 20


Eighteen months after an uprising at a privately run Federal detention center
for immigrants here, the center has reopened under new management, with promises
of a faster hearing process for those seeking asylum.

On the weekend it reopened, Jan. 11 and 12, the 350-bed Elizabeth Detention
Center admitted seven illegal immigrants who were seeking political asylum or
who entered the country without proper papers or proof of their identity. By
this week, there were 20 detainees.

The Corrections Corporation of America, a Nashville-based company that runs 59
prisons around the country, is now managing the center, which a Congressional
critic once termed the "worst immigration detention center in the nation."

In addition, the Immigration and Naturalization Service has set up the center's
first soundproof, private meeting rooms for lawyers and their clients. It has
permanently assigned three judges to conduct hearings at the center, rather than
have judges periodically visit, as a way of streamlining the process. It has
also installed nearly two dozen I.N.S. officials -- in the past, there were only
10 -- to provide 24-hour-a-day, 7-day-a week monitoring of the center.

The five-hour uprising at the center on June 18, 1995, not only led to its
closing but also prompted a re-examination of I.N.S. policies on detaining
asylum seekers and the oversight of private management companies at 4 of its 13
detention centers nationally, said Russ Bergeron, an agency spokesman.

The agency's internal investigation of the disturbance placed the blame for the
problems here on both the former private contractor, Esmor Correctional Services
of Melville, L.I., and agency officials. Mr. Bergeron said the changes being
adopted here were likely to be used nationwide, where appropriate.

"The disturbances rocked the very foundations of the whole detention operation,"
said Andrea Quarantillo, the newly designated I.N.S. district director in
Newark.

Despite the changes, advocates for immigrants said the physical conditions in
the former warehouse building that contributed to the uprising had shown little
improvement. If anything, they said, there are more bars and more emphasis on
security that made life for people who had not been convicted of any crimes in
the United States harsh and prisonlike.

Detainees are still housed in the same large dormitory rooms, with a capacity of
either 20 or 40 people, where James J. Haggerty, regional coordinator of the
Catholic Legal Immigrant Network, said they "eat, defecate, sleep and remain for
23 hours a day."

Toilets are still exposed for everyone to see. What passed for an outdoor
recreation space is still a high-walled, ceilingless courtyard that on a recent
visit allowed only a glimpse of gray sky through chain-link fencing stretched
over the opening.

"We certainly have indications that it will be run better than in the past and
that lawyers will have greater access," said Eleanor Acer, coordinator of the
Asylum Program of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "But there are certain
problems with the facility itself which have not improved enough."

The I.N.S. investigation of the seeds of the 1995 disturbance painted a picture
of a bleak place in which poorly trained and abusive guards preyed on
immigrants. There was little supervision by the I.N.S. and little direction from
Esmor managers, investigators said.

During the uprising, in which there were no escapes or serious injuries, the
Esmor personnel were at a loss about what to do. Some hid or fled the center.
The only emergency planning amounted to calling 911, one official said.

So when the new management moved in, one of Mayor J. Christian Bollwage's
concerns was the level of training and emergency planning. Mayor Bollwage had
once threatened to block the city streets leading to the center to bar its
reopening if he was not satisfied that its problems would not spill over into
the city.

"Corrections Corporation of America has shown us a detailed security and
emergency planning report," the Mayor said. He also said he was pleased with the
new I.N.S. judges and lawyers at the center, which would lessen the length of
detainees' stays and reduce the chances of the center becoming a prisonlike
tinderbox of frustrations.

Mike Samberg, the Corrections Corporation of America warden at the center,
agreed and pointed to the renovated visiting area, the specialized personnel to
handle detainees' belongings and the large kitchen with menus chosen by Asian,
Muslim and Hispanic dietary consultants.

"The worst thing you can do in a prison setting is mess with people's money,
visits or their food," Mr. Samberg said, noting that his company faced a $1,500
charge against their contract for every detainee who escaped.

Penny Venetis, a lawyer at the Constitutional Litigation Clinic at Rutgers Law
School in Newark, was among the advocates who were troubled by the increased
emphasis on security. Still, she praised the agency for many improvements,
especially for its willingness to listen to suggestions from the advocate groups
that make up the New York Immigration Coalition.

Among the suggestions that Ms. Quarantillo said the agency had put into effect
was allowing volunteer lawyers to meet privately with unrepresented detainees
before their initial hearings. In the past, such contact was not allowed, and it
often meant continuances and delays in deciding asylum claims. Also, she said,
the coalition's lawyers will be allowed to hold weekly informational sessions
for detainees, informing them of their rights, the criteria for getting asylum
and changes in the laws.

These changes will be instituted for the first time at the Elizabeth center with
a new program intended to parole quickly as many asylum seekers as possible.
Under this program, trained asylum officers with specialized knowledge of the
countries of origin of detainees will interview them and make recommendations to
parole them if their claims are "credible," In the past, parole was not granted
unless the claims met the higher legal standard of "well founded."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The tattered flag of Esmor Correctional Services, which ran the
Elizabeth detention center until an uprising forced its closing in 1995. (Linda
Rosier for The New York Times); Mike Samberg, the warden, showed the new library
at the Federal detention center for immigrants in Elizabeth, N.J. The privately
run center recently reopened, 18 months after an uprising. (Marilynn K. Yee/The
New York Times)

Chart: "UPDATE: Under New Management"
The Immigration and Naturalization Service reopened its Elizabeth Detention
Center Jan. 11, 18 months after an inmate rising led to its closing and to a
nationwide overhaul of policy on detaining asylum seekers. Chart lists some
changes at Elizabeth. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Corrections Corporation of America)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 21, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A 200-Bed Center to Open Near Kennedy Airport

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 400 words


A new immigration detention center is scheduled to open in three weeks near
Kennedy International Airport, where Federal authorities intercept thousands of
undocumented travelers to the United States every year.

The 62,000-square-foot center, at 182-22 150th Avenue in Jamaica, is designed to
accommodate up to 200 people. The Wackenhut Corrections Corporation, owner of
the property, is to operate the center under a five-year, $49 million contract
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said Patrick F. Cannan,
corporate relations director at Wackenhut.

Immigration officials in New York declined to discuss the center until a formal
announcement is made later this month.

The detention of people who come to Kennedy without proper documents has been a
problem for years.

The New York region has the second-largest number of asylum claims in the
country, after Los Angeles.

To deal with the large influx, immigration officials have resorted to a variety
of tactics.

Some immigrants have been held in overcrowded centers, some were sent to jails
and some were released immediately if they promised to return for a hearing.

Mr. Cannan said the new center will benefit the Federal Government and the
immigrants.

It will save the Government money and time because detainees will no longer have
to be shuttled to faraway county jails to have their cases reviewed by the
authorities, Mr. Cannan said.

The asylum process will be quicker and more efficient because immigration
hearings will be held at the center.

No detainee should be held longer than two months, he said.

And the people who are held will be surrounded with other immigrants, rather
than criminals, Mr. Cannan said.

"We'll be sensitive to their needs," he said. "We'll even have chefs that will
cook the meals they are used to eating in their own countries."

Wackenhut operates 17 other detention centers in the country, but of those, only
one, near Denver International Airport, is under contract with the immigration
service.

From 1989 to 1995, the company operated a 100-bed detention center in Rosedale,
Queens, which closed at the end of the company's contract with the I.N.S.

Mr. Cannan said the I.N.S. did not renew the contract because it wanted a bigger
building.

At the time, detainees complained that the center was overcrowded and that it
lacked outdoor recreational spaces.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 8, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Pursuit Of Freedom, Only to Find Prison Bars;
Immigration Officials Try to Discern Those Fleeing Persecution

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1991 words


The highest administrative tribunal in the nation's immigration system never
doubted the harrowing story of Hawa Jama, a 26-year-old Somali woman who sought
asylum in the United States in 1994.

Miss Jama, who told of discovering the bodies of her father and two little
brothers shot in the head by clan warriors, and of being herself sliced with a
bayonet and battered with a rifle butt, was jailed upon her arrival here at the
Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., where her lawyer, Gloria M. Alfonso,
said she sank into deep depression.

"She could not stop crying," Ms. Alfonso said. "She was so thin, so pale. You
felt she was on the verge of death."

After a disturbance led to Esmor's closing, Miss Jama was moved to another jail.
She was released after 14 months in detention, and a month ago was granted
asylum. She now lives with her sister in Tennessee.

Her lengthy detention after entering the country illegally is emblematic of
broader failings in the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service's
program to release asylum seekers who have credible claims, pose no danger to
society and have ties here, say immigration experts and advocates for refugees.

The disturbance at the Esmor detention center a year ago, fueled by detainees'
frustrations over their prolonged incarcerations and conditions at the jail,
highlighted serious problems in that program. Though the immigration service has
not yet made nationwide changes, officials say there will be an improved program
ready to be carried out in the detention center in Elizabeth when it reopens in
the fall.

The program for asylum seekers has been plagued by inadequate staffing,
inconsistent application, a lack of accountability for district directors who
ignore recommendations for parole, and an inability to track the cases of
detainees, according to immigration service reports and lawyers who have tried
to get their clients released.

Tellingly, the immigration service says it does not know how many asylum seekers
it has in detention. Last year, 53,255 immigrants came forward to ask for
sanctuary here.

When the Elizabeth jail reopens, I.N.S. officers who handle asylum cases will
also screen immigrants for possible parole, an approach the immigration service
plans to expand nationally, said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, the service's
associate commissioner. A working group within the agency is now developing
specific changes in the program, he said, ranging from which asylum seekers will
be considered for parole to how their cases will be monitored.

The goal, he said, is to deter fraudulent asylum claims by detaining immigrants
who are not credible, while paroling those with bona fide claims on humanitarian
grounds.

"We're on our way to finding that balance," Mr. Aleinikoff said, although
conceding that the asylum release program "has not been a core commitment of the
agency."

Advocates for refugees say they have heard promises to reform the process
before, but have yet to see results. "What's it going to take?" said Elisa
Massimino, legal director in the Washington office of the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights. "Another Esmor?"


Promises of Support, But Jailed Anyway

In recent weeks, the immigration service's detention of asylum seekers has come
under increasing scrutiny. The Board of Immigration Appeals, in granting asylum
to 19-year-old Fauziya Kasinga, who said she had fled Togo to escape genital
mutilation, asked why the immigration service had detained the young woman, who
had no criminal record, for more than a year.

And on June 19, Amnesty International asked the immigration service to
investigate lawyers' complaints that asylum seekers from Bangladesh, Ghana,
Ivory Coast and the former Yugoslavia who had relatives willing to support them
and who were ultimately granted asylum had been detained for four to six months
in the immigration service's Philadelphia district.

Mary Frances Holmes, the service's acting district director in Philadelphia,
said her staff had just begun looking into the allegations and did not yet have
a response.

Amnesty International also questioned the 14-month detention of a Sri Lankan
asylum seeker, Ehamparam Appukuddy, who died of a heart attack in May at the
Lehigh County Prison in Pennsylvania.

A year earlier, when Mr. Appukuddy was at Esmor, his lawyer had asked the
immigration service to release him because he had a serious heart condition.
Warren Lewis, the district director, refused, replying that there was no
evidence that Mr. Appukuddy had heart trouble and that he had not submitted
documents proving his identity, according to documents supplied by Mr.
Appukuddy's lawyer.

A few days after Mr. Appukuddy's death, Ms. Holmes said in an interview that he
had received appropriate medical care, but she declined to give more details.

His lawyer, John Assadi, said that Mr. Appukuddy's wife and 16-year-old son were
still grieving in Canada, where they had hoped he would join them. "The I.N.S.
wouldn't let him go to Canada, but they're sending the corpse there," Mr. Assadi
said.

The goal of the immigration service's policy on deciding which asylum seekers to
parole, issued in April 1992, was to avoid wasting scarce, expensive detention
space on legitimate asylum seekers whom the country was prepared to admit. Under
the policy, immigration officials trained in asylum law were to interview asylum
applicants, review their cases and make a recommendation to district directors.

From the start, there was tremendous resistance to the policy within the
immigration service, particularly from some district directors. They saw the
release of people who entered the country without legal documents as
antithetical to their battle against illegal immigration, said Grover Joseph
Rees, who was general counsel at the immigration service during the Bush
Administration, when the policy was adopted.

"Many I.N.S. employees view the job as simply trying to keep people out of the
country," Mr. Rees said. "They don't distinguish between people who have been
persecuted and people who have not. The enforcement people see the asylum branch
and the general counsel's office as softies who have no real world experience
and are an easy mark for fraudulent claims."

Since the asylum release policy was adopted, the pendulum has swung toward a
crackdown. Soon after President Clinton took office in 1993, two people were
gunned down outside the Central Intelligence Agency in Virginia and a Pakistani
national who had extended his stay in the country by applying for asylum became
the leading suspect.

Then a suspect in the February 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center, Sheik
Omar Abdel Rahman, was found to have applied for asylum. Two weeks after the
bombing, "60 Minutes" broadcast a report on the thousands of people who were
arriving at Kennedy International Airport without proper travel documents and
who were being released simply because of a lack of detention space.

The broadcast quoted the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group
that favors restrictive immigration policies, as saying that only 1 or 2 percent
of those thousands were really fleeing persecution.

Immigration officials say that, over all, 20 to 25 percent of those who request
asylum are granted it, but they also say that the asylum system at the time of
the policy change was so overwhelmed that immigrants who had no basis for a
claim of persecution could ask for asylum, get immediate authorization to work,
and rest easy that their cases would simply disappear into the backlog.

Routine Detention For Asylum Seekers

"These events had a major effect on Capitol Hill," David A. Martin, the current
general counsel of the immigration service, wrote in a law journal article.
"Hearings proliferated on what was suddenly being portrayed as an asylum
crisis."

When the Esmor detention facility opened in 1994, the immigration service used
it to routinely detain asylum seekers who tried to enter the country illegally
through Kennedy and Newark airports. About 35 percent of the immigrants detained
at Esmor during its 11 months of operation were asylum seekers, the I.N.S. said.

And in January 1995, the immigration service also began requiring asylum seekers
to wait six months for work papers. It also beefed up staffing so claims could
be processed more quickly.

The changes in the handling of asylum seekers caused the number of new asylum
cases filed in New York and Newark to plummet to 18,483 in 1995 from 42,199 in
1994, officials said.

But in its zeal to deter fraudulent asylum claims, the immigration service,
advocates and refugees say, has too often lost sight of its humanitarian
responsibilities.

The most thorough critique of the flawed execution of the policy to release
credible asylum seekers is to be found not in the pronouncements of advocates,
but in an internal evaluation produced in August 1995 by the general counsel's
office of the immigration service itself and provided to The New York Times by a
critic of the service's track record.

In some cases, the report said, the program has worked well. "At its weakest, it
can be inefficient, inconsistent from district to district, and operated without
full information about whether the asylum claim is successful in immigration
court or even what the district director determines in response to the
recommendation," the report stated.

The evaluation also said that the Esmor disturbance had highlighted problems
with the program.

Only 30 of the 394 asylum seekers at Esmor received reviews from immigration
service lawyers charged with considering their possible parole under the
program, according to the immigration service's post-Esmor report. The lawyers
recommended releasing seven of them. But the district director released only one
person as a result of those recommendations.

According to the Justice Department, immigration judges granted asylum to 35 of
the Esmor detainees. Most of those who lost filed appeals. In the cases
involving Miss Kasinga and Miss Jama, the Board of Immigration Appeals
overturned the judges' rulings that had denied asylum.

At Esmor, Miss Kasinga and Miss Jama, both young Muslim women from Africa,
befriended each other and sometimes prayed together in the recreation area. Miss
Jama, sad already, said she became even more despairing after learning that her
mother had died in a refugee camp. Miss Kasinga said she recalled that Miss Jama
was so weak from not eating that she had to lean against the walls to support
herself when she walked.

Violence at Home; Prison in the U.S.

The Catholic Legal Immigration Network in Newark, which was representing Miss
Jama, first asked for her release in October 1994, two months after she arrived
in the United States, and got no reply, Ms. Alfonso said. That request was
renewed in March, with greater urgency, because of Miss Jama's deteriorating
health, she said.

In April 1995, Mr. Lewis denied the request for parole, saying in a letter that
medical records did not substantiate the claim of depression, Ms. Alfonso said.

After the Esmor disturbance, Miss Jama was moved to the York County Prison in
Pennsylvania. In a letter to the I.N.S. dated July 27, 1995, Ms. Alfonso said
that Miss Jama had told her she wanted to die.

"At this point, I do not know how long she will be able to endure detention,"
Ms. Alfonso wrote. "I would not wish her to die in a detention facility and I am
certain I.N.S. shares this sentiment."

Ms. Holmes of the Philadelphia district said she could not comment on the
specifics of Miss Jama's case. "It's not right and proper to give out
information about people," she said.

On Oct. 26, 1995, Miss Jama was released because of her poor health.

"I'll never forget that day," she said. "I was crying. My family was waiting for
me. I was in joy. But the freedom was hard that day. I had waited 14 months. I
was innocent."


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: FAILURES WITHOUT PENALTY -- Second of two articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The illegal-immigrant jail in Elizabeth, N.J., scene of an
uprising last year. (Associated Press); Hawa Jama, a 26-year-old Somali who
sought asylum in the United States, was jailed for 14 months before it was
granted. (Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times); Fauziya Kasinga, right, who
fled genital mutilation in Togo, was released from immigration jail in April.
Karen Musalo, a lawyer, rejoiced with her. (Greg Mahany for The New York Times)
(pg. B1); Fauziya Kasinga, 19, spent more than a year in jail for entering the
country illegally. She was granted asylum in April. (Amy Toensing for The New
York Times) (pg. B2)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

With New Restrictions at Hand, U.S. Tries to Allay Fear Among Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 918 words


Promising that there would be no mass deportations, Federal immigration
officials yesterday outlined the complex, far-reaching requirements of a new law
that are expected to make life harder for legal and illegal immigrants alike.

The assurances against mass deportation were intended to allay the fears of many
immigrants, thousands of whom, acting largely on rumor, have been marrying
citizens or legal residents, or queuing up in long lines to apply for residency
status, in the erroneous belief that they face deportation if they do not act by
April 1, next Tuesday, when parts of the new law take effect.

Actually, immigration officials say, nothing in the law gives any advantage to
an immigrant who marries or applies for residency by Tuesday: there is no such
deadline.

"The law does not mean, nor will we engage in, mass deportations beginning April
1," Chris Sale, deputy commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said in a briefing at the agency's headquarters in Washington.

But the new statute, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act, adopted last year, will for the first time impose an income test on people
who try to bring family members from abroad to join them in the United States,
making it more difficult for poor immigrants already here to reunite with their
families.

The law also tightens provisions that affect illegal immigrants, for one thing
making it much easier for the immigration service to deport quickly people who
try to enter the country without proper documents, even some of those who claim
to be fleeing persecution. It will dramatically expand the list of crimes that
will lead to deportation of an immigrant. And it will make it more difficult for
people who have lived here illegally for years to avoid deportation if they are
apprehended.

"The changes this law makes send a clear message," Ms. Sale said. "We will
address the problem of illegal immigration, thereby protecting the integrity of
the legal immigration process and our public safety."

Administering the new law has proved daunting, officials said. The immigration
service is revamping 75 forms, is retraining 16,000 immigration officers, has
written or amended regulations for 63 sections of the statute and is trying to
inform nonprofit groups that work with immigrants about the myriad changes.

"We realize how critical it is to make accurate information available," Ms. Sale
said.

For changes affecting illegal immigrants alone, the details are many.

Those immigrants who remain in the United States illegally for six months beyond
April 1 will be barred from re-entering the country for three years, and those
who stay illegally for a year or more will be barred for 10 years.

Other provisions will make it harder for illegal immigrants who have already
lived in the United States for years to avoid deportation if they are caught.
They will be required to have resided in the country for 10 years, rather than 7
as under the old law, and will also have to convince an immigration judge that
their spouse, parent or child faces "exceptional and extremely unusual hardship"
if they are deported, a higher standard of proof than before.

For the first time, Congress put an annual ceiling on the number of illegal
immigrants who can avoid deportation because of such hardship. The ceiling is
4,000, and, with six months left in the Federal fiscal year, more than 3,900
hardship waivers have already been granted. Immigration officials say that they
are talking to the relevant Congressional committees about the possibility of
raising the ceiling but that they have received no answer yet.

Contrary to past practice, those whose pleas to stay in the country are denied
will, with few exceptions, have no appeal to the Federal courts, a provision
that has stirred strong opposition from civil liberties groups.

The law will also make it much more difficult for a low-income person to bring
family members to the United States from abroad. That person, the "sponsor,"
will have to earn 125 percent of the poverty level, or $19,500 a year for a
family of four. Preliminary research sponsored by the immigration service has
found that many Mexicans and Salvadorans already in the United States, and the
poor among other immigrant groups, will be unable to meet the new standard.

Immigration officials say they have not yet completed the regulations to carry
out the new income requirement, and do not expect them to be in place for
several months. That gives poor immigrants a narrow window of opportunity in
which they can still apply to sponsor their relatives.

Another set of changes that take effect on Tuesday will empower immigration
officials to deport immediately anyone trying to enter the United States
illegally at international airports, without review by an immigration judge or
Federal courts, unless the immigrant claims to be fleeing persecution or
torture.

Even those who request asylum will be returned to their home countries unless
they can convince an immigration officer or an immigration judge within nine
days of their arrival that they have a "credible fear" of persecution.

Under the old law, asylum seekers were automatically admitted to the country,
even though they were often detained, while their cases proceeded through the
legal system. Human rights lawyers and other advocates say they believe the
change will lead to mistakes that result in refugees' being returned to their
persecutors.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 2, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

With Immigration Law in Effect, Battles Go On

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 1


A new Federal law that will curb immigration went into effect today as lawyers
for refugees and the poor continued to fight it in court.

The law, which restricts the number of people who immigrate legally and makes it
easier for the Government to deport illegal immigrants, was enacted last year
over the objections of civil liberties groups, after two years of rancorous
debate in Congress. Its advocates say that over time, it will significantly stem
the number of illegal immigrants in the United States.

But the April 1 effective date has produced widespread confusion and anxiety
among immigrant families that are hoping to bring relatives into the country.
And immigration officials have acknowledged that they share some of the
confusion, because the regulations adopted to carry out the law's provisions
were rushed into effect to meet that date.

The new statute, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility
Act, will for the first time impose an income test on people who try to bring
family members from abroad to join them in the United States, making it more
difficult for poor immigrants already here to reunite with their families.

The law also makes it much easier for the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to deport people who try to enter the country without proper documents, and
greatly expands the list of crimes that lead to deportation. It will also make
it more difficult for people who have lived here illegally for years to avoid
deportation if they are apprehended.

Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the I.N.S., said there were no unusual problems at
the nation's 250 border posts on the first day of enforcing the new law's
provisions.

Here in Washington, meanwhile, lawyers for the American Civil Liberties Union
and a coalition of immigrant rights groups asked a Federal district judge to
order the agency to change those new regulations that govern how border
officials treat people who show up without proper documents but who may be able
to claim they are seeking political asylum.

Robert Rubin, a lawyer challenging the law, told the judge, Emmet G. Sullivan,
that under these regulations, such prospective immigrants would not be told that
they may claim a fear of persecution if they are returned to their homeland. Any
immigrant who does not know to mention this, Mr. Rubin said, will be summarily
excluded from the United States.

"This law will subject fleeing refugees to a snap interview at the border by a
uniformed official," he said, "and if they do not give the right answer, they
are summarily sent home -- possibly to face torture or death."

The Justice Department is expected to reply to the rights groups' petition on
Wednesday, and Judge Sullivan set a hearing for Friday.

The request now before Judge Sullivan is the latest in what promises to be an
increasing array of legal challenges to the law.

On Monday, Mr. Rubin won a small and ultimately short-lived victory when he
persuaded Judge Sullivan to delay the statute's implementation four days, until
Saturday. That ruling was based on a procedural technicality: Government
regulations are not supposed to take effect until 30 days after they are
published in the Federal Register, and the Justice Department put these
regulations into effect 26 days after publication. But this morning, an appeals
court overturned Judge Sullivan's order.

Judy Rabinowitz, a staff attorney with the Immigrants' Rights Project of the
A.C.L.U., told reporters at the courthouse today that the early procedural
skirmishing would soon yield to more substantive constitutional challenges.

In fact, other lawyers, in California, have already challenged the law's income
requirement as unconstitutional and discriminatory. Under this provision, a
person sponsoring a family member from abroad will have to demonstrate earnings
of 125 percent of the poverty level, or $19,500 a year at present for a family
of four. Preliminary research sponsored by the immigration service has found
that many Mexicans and Salvadorans already in the United States, and the poor
among other immigrant groups, will be unable to meet the new standard.

The law also provides that those immigrants who remain in the United States
illegally for six months beyond April 1 will be barred from re-entering the
country for three years, and those who stay illegally for a year or more will be
barred for 10 years. And contrary to past practice, those whose pleas to stay in
the country are denied will, with few exceptions, have no appeal to the Federal
courts.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Who Missed Amnesty Period Lose Suit Again

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 575 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, May 3


Upholding a provision of the new immigration bill, a Federal appeals panel has
dismissed a lawsuit filed on behalf of thousands of illegal immigrants who
missed a deadline for a 1980's amnesty program.

The unanimous decision, announced on Wednesday by a three-judge panel of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, upheld a section of the
1996 Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act that limits Federal
judicial review of certain types of lawsuits pending against the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The ruling involved a decade-old lawsuit against an immigration policy that grew
out of the amnesty legislation enacted in 1986. It offered amnesty to illegal
residents who had lived continuously in the United States for at least four
years through 1986.

For those granted amnesty under the law, it was the first step toward legal
residency.

The immigration service, however, said it would deny legal status to any
applicant who had left the country for any length of time in the amnesty period
without first notifying immigration officials.

A coalition of immigrants rights groups sued, saying the immigration service's
policy was not in line with the Federal law, which allowed for "brief, casual
and innocent" trips outside the United States. The Federal courts agreed and
struck down the policy, but immigrant rights groups said that tens of thousands
of people potentially eligible for amnesty under the law had been dissuaded from
applying.

In 1992, the Ninth Circuit ruled that the immigration service would have to
consider residency applications from about 220,000 additional illegal immigrants
who had not applied by the amnesty deadline in May 1988. That decision survived
a 1993 Supreme Court challenge.

But as part of the immigration bill passed last summer to clamp down on illegal
immigrants, Congress forbade Federal courts from hearing cases brought by
illegal aliens who had not actually applied for the amnesty program by the
deadline.

Advocates for immigrant rights maintained that the policy they challenged
violated the constitutional doctrine of separation of powers, but the appeals
panel unanimously rejected that argument. "Congress's authority to define
Federal court jurisdiction is well-recognized," one of the judges, Mary M.
Schroeder, wrote. "Its plenary authority with respect to immigration matters is
also ingrained in our law."

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said they were pleased
with the ruling. In addition, David A. Martin, general counsel for the agency,
said that the immigration service would not pursue deportation of the immigrants
who had sued. "We're not going to be specifically targeting the people who are
affected by this ruling," Mr. Martin said.

The suit's supporters said Congress had subverted their previous victories.
"There's no question about it," said Stephen A. Rosenbaum, a lawyer for the
immigrants. "It was a piece of legislation drafted by Congress specifically to
nail a coffin in this litigation."

Lucas Guttentag, director of the immigrants' rights project of the American
Civil Liberties Union, said that the ruling was the first appelate-level test of
the dozens of so-called "court stripping" provisions in the immigration act.

"This is very narrow, but very significant," Mr. Guttentag said. "It's a
question of whether these are essentially back-door amendments to the
Constitution."




LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 2, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Overhaul Moves Toward Vote

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 1


House and Senate Republicans cleared the way today for a vote on overhauling
immigration law, resolving a sharpdispute over how to educate children who are
illegal immigrants.

If passed, the legislation would tighten the nation's borders and clamp down on
millions of illegal immigrants living and working here.

But critics contend that the compromise on the education provision could throw
thousands of children onto the streets.

"Our goals are to do all we can to discourage the unchecked flow of illegal
immigration and to encourage those illegal immigrants already here to go home,"
said Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican who championed the
education provision.

The bill's best chances for passage before lawmakers take a monthlong recess are
in the House, where the leaders are expected to put the legislation on a fast
track for a floor vote by Friday or Saturday. But Democrats opposed to the
education provision could block Senate approval.

Earlier this year, both House and Senate gave overwhelming approval to similar
bills, which would nearly double -- to almost 10,000 -- the number of Border
Patrol officers, stiffen penalties against document fraud and provide ways to
verify that employers hire only legal workers. About 300,000 foreigners a year
enter the country illegally or overstay their visas, many vanishing into the
underground economy.

Reconciling the two bills hit a snag beginning in May, mainly over a provision
that the House included but the Senate did not, that would allow states to deny
public education to children who are illegal immigrants.

The ban is particularly popular in California, where the Republican Governor,
Pete Wilson, has been a fervent supporter. The state spends $1.8 billion a year
to educate more than 350,000 children who are illegal immigrants.

But school administrators and law-enforcement officers have condemned the
measure, saying that by putting children out of school and onto the streets, it
would jeopardize public health and safety. President Clinton has promised to
veto any bill that includes the education measure. Several prominent Republicans
including former President George Bush and Gen. Colin L. Powell oppose the
measure.

The education compromise hammered out over the past several days by Senate and
House Republicans, without Democrats' participation, would allow illegal
immigrants now enrolled in elementary school to stay without penalty so long as
they did not change school districts.

But once these children advanced to the seventh grade, local school districts
could require that they pay annual tuition costs of more than $5,000 a student
through the 12th grade. Opponents of this measure say that parents unable or
unwilling to pay the tuition would pull these children out of class, a step that
would almost certainly identify the family as deportable by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Illegal immigrant children now in grades 7 through 12
would not be affected.

The provision would take effect in the 1997-98 academic year, permitting states
to deny public education to any illegal immigrant who arrived from then on.

Republican negotiators struck a final deal today after Senator Arlen Specter,
Republican of Pennsylvania, insisted that the General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, assess the measure's impact on children two and a
half years and five years after the provision takes effect.

Senior Administration officials criticized the compromise as still leaving
children out on the street. "We don't want to create a farm system for gang
leaders and drug dealers to recruit from," said Rahm I. Emanuel, an aide to Mr.
Clinton who follows immigration issues.

House and Senate Republican negotiators, working without bipartisan
participation, as is customary in conference committees, resolved several other
differences in the bill before presenting it to Democrats as a done deal.

The House had sought to make gaining asylum status more difficult for immigrants
who lack valid travel documents and who say they are fleeing persecution. The
House would have had a lone immigration officer determine the foreigner's fate,
without a judicial review. The compromise allows immigrants a hearing before an
immigration judge and a reasonable time to prepare for it.

The House wanted to require that an immigrant's sponsor earn at least 200
percent of the Federal poverty level for a household that included the sponsor's
family and the immigrant, a level that would preclude nearly half of all
Americans from sponsoring a foreigner. The Senate proposed 125 percent. The
compromise was 140 percent if the immigrant was the sponsor's spouse or child,
and 200 percent for anyone else. The current level is 100 percent.

The Senate had proposed directing the immigration service to test several
mandatory pilot programs in states with many immigrants to find one that best
allows employers to verify the legal status of people whom they want to hire.
The House wanted to make the programs voluntary, fearing that using a national
data base to verify a worker's status could lead to a national identification
card. The compromise was to conduct three voluntary pilot programs.


LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 19, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Dangerous Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section A;   Page 26;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 539 words


As the White House and members of Congress make final decisions this week about
a severely flawed immigration bill, they seem more concerned with protecting
their political interests than the national interest. The bill should be killed.

Debate over the bill has concentrated on whether it should contain a punitive
amendment that would close school doors to illegal-immigrant children. But even
without that provision, it is filled with measures that would harm American
workers and legal immigrants, and deny basic legal protections to all kinds of
immigrants. At the same time, the bill contains no serious steps to prevent
illegal immigrants from taking American jobs.

Its most dangerous provisions would block Federal courts from reviewing many
Immigration and Naturalization Service actions. This would remove the only
meaningful check on the I.N.S., an agency with a history of abuse. Under the
bill, every court short of the Supreme Court would be effectively stripped of
the power to issue injunctions against the I.N.S. when its decisions may violate
the law or the Constitution.

Injunctions have proven the only way to correct system-wide illegalities. A
court injunction, for instance, forced the I.N.S. to drop its discriminatory
policy of denying Haitian refugees the chance to seek political asylum.

On an individual level, legal immigrants convicted of minor crimes would be
deported with no judicial review. If they apply for naturalization, they would
be deported for such crimes committed in the past. The I.N.S. would gain the
power to pick up people it believes are illegal aliens anywhere, and deport them
without a court review if they have been here for less than two years.

The bill would also diminish America's tradition of providing asylum to the
persecuted. Illegal immigrants entering the country, who may not speak English
or be familiar with American law, would be summarily deported if they do not
immediately request asylum or express fear of persecution. Those who do would
have to prove that their fear was credible -- a tougher standard than is
internationally accepted -- to an I.N.S. official on the spot, with no right to
an interpreter or attorney.

Scam artists with concocted stories would be more likely to pass the test than
the genuinely persecuted, who are often afraid of authority and so traumatized
they cannot recount their experiences. Applicants would have a week to appeal to
a Justice Department administrative judge but no access to real courts before
deportation.

The bill would also go further than the recently adopted welfare law in
attacking legal immigrants. Under the immigration bill they could be deported
for using almost any form of public assistance for a year, including English
classes. It would make family reunification more difficult by requiring high
incomes for sponsors of new immigrants. The bill would also require workers who
claim job discrimination to prove that an employer intended to discriminate,
which is nearly impossible.

A bill that grants so many unrestricted powers to the Government should alarm
Republicans as well as Democrats. This is not an immigration bill but an
immigrant-bashing bill. It deserves a quick demise.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Nothing to Fear in Immigration Legislation

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 307 words


To the Editor:

Tens of thousands of illegal immigrants have entered this country by destroying
fraudulent travel documents, claiming asylum and never showing up for hearings.
The anti terrorism law, effective Nov. 1, will end this practice by requiring an
expedited review of asylum claims at the port of entry.

This procedure is a common-sense balance between securing our borders and
protecting asylum seekers. For Anthony Lewis (column, Sept. 23), no such balance
is necessary. But he should consider that many illegal immigrants arriving at
airports receive false documents from organized crime syndicates.

Expedited removal of illegal immigrants protects legitimate refugees. The
immigration bill now nearing completion in Congress would modify the new
expedited review provision. Applicants must establish only a significant
possibility that they will be eligible for asylum. Initial interviews will be
conducted by full-time asylum officers or people with identical training.
Immigration judges, who will review denied claims, are independent from the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The only people with anything to fear
from this legislation are those who might wish to abuse our immigration
loopholes.

The bill does not eliminate judicial review of I.N.S. practices. Any individual
immigrant may still sue the agency and obtain specific relief, but broad
class-action suits, brought mostly on behalf of illegal immigrants, will be
curtailed. Immigration lawyers have used such suits to accomplish what they
cannot accomplish through legislation or regulations.

We hear an awful lot about "anti-immigrant hysteria." Perhaps it is time for
critics to confess to "anti-immigration reform hysteria."

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Washington, Sept. 23, 1996

Chairman, Subcommittee
on Immigration and Claims

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Bill Tries to Balance Concerns on Immigration

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 28;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 934 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


The immigration bill the White House and Congressional Republicans agreed to
early today includes some of the toughest measures taken in decades against
illegal immigration, but has far less to discourage legal immigration than was
originally proposed.

That balance allows both sides to claim victory in tackling one of the most
difficult and emotional issues in contemporary politics.

Civil rights advocates complained that the accord guts anti-discrimination rules
protecting immigrants in the workplace, raises new barriers to refugees seeking
asylum and strips most courts of their power to block possibly illegal
Government policies.

Republican leaders claimed these provisions as successes in their campaign to
tighten the nation's immigration laws against free-loaders and scofflaws. "It is
a bill that clearly will be decisive in helping stop illegal immigration,"
Speaker Newt Gingrich told reporters today.

But some Republicans accused their leaders of bowing to too many unfair White
House demands in their hurry to adjourn. "If they bought the package the White
House sent them at 7 A.M., I ain't there," said Senator Alan K. Simpson, a
Wyoming Republican and an author of the Senate bill.

Today's agreement allows President Clinton to honor his promise to block
provisions concerning legal immigrants that would have gone beyond those already
included in this year's welfare bill. One of them would have deported legal
immigrants who used certain public benefits for more than 12 months in their
first seven years in the country. Another would have barred both legal and
illegal immigrants with H.I.V.  and AIDS from Federally financed treatment
programs. Both provisions were dropped.

Earlier this week, Republicans also removed Mr. Clinton's biggest objection to
the bill, a provision that would have allowed states to deny public schooling to
children who are in the country illegally. Eliminating this provision also dealt
a stinging political defeat to Bob Dole, who supported the measure and sought to
deny Mr. Clinton an immigration bill he could claim as his own.

"It's clear that the Administration played hardball on those issues and won
significant gains," said Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National
Council of La Raza, an immigrants' rights group. "But there are still
extraordinary problems with this bill that affect United States citizens and
legal immigrants."

The bill that emerged from the bargaining this week is the culmination of a
two-year effort. Last spring, an unusual alliance of high-technology companies,
grass-roots immigrants' groups, civil-liberties organizations and conservative
think tanks killed the effort to curb legal immigration, saying such moves would
keep families apart and bar new entrepreneurial talent.

So the legislative focus shifted to the more popular course of cracking down on
illegal immigration. Two important provisions won quick, early approval from
Democrats and Republicans: doubling the number of Border Patrol agents to 10,000
and speeding the deportation of immigrants who are criminals or who use false
documents.

But critics accused the bill's Republican sponsors, Senator Simpson and
Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, of trying to cut legal immigration "through
the back door" by proposing minimum-income requirements for sponsors of
immigrants.

Under a House-Senate conference committee report approved by the House this week
by a vote of 305 to 123, United States citizens seeking to bring in their
immigrant spouses or minor children would need an income 40 percent above the
poverty level. An income of double the poverty level would be needed to bring in
their parents, siblings or adult children. The current standard is at the
poverty level; income figures would be would be calculated on the entire family
unit.

Immigrants' rights groups said more than 35 percent of citizens wanting to bring
in their relatives would be unable to do so under the higher standards.
Republicans countered that the higher levels would prevent citizens on welfare
from bringing in their relatives. Under a compromise, one or more sponsors can
pool their incomes to reach 25 above the poverty level.

Mr. Gingrich said the White House originally wanted to remove the entire section
of the bill that restricts benefits to legal aliens and sets income requirements
for sponsors.

But Mr. Gingrich said negotiators, who working until 7 A.M. today, retained some
provisions, including the rights of states to be reimbursed by the Federal
Government for the emergency Medicare costs of illegal immigrants. Another
retained provision allows battered immigrant spouses to receive public
assistance.

In an effort to prevent welfare fraud by undocumented immigrants, the bill
requires proof of citizenship before receiving any benefits.

The bill makes it more difficult for refugees to claim asylum here. Refugees
without proper travel documents would have to go through an extra step to
establish a well-founded fear of persecution if they returned home.

An Immigration and Naturalization Service officer at the border would decide the
refugee's claim. If the claim was denied, the refugee would have only seven days
to appeal to an immigration judge. In a change from current practice, no further
appeals to Federal courts would be allowed.

Immigrants' rights groups said that despite last-minute gains in the bill, they
expected renewed efforts to curb legal immigration next year. Ms. Munoz said
that the next group facing danger were legal immigrants seeking naturalization.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Sues U.S. Over Welfare Law

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 28;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 219 words


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani filed a lawsuit against the Federal Government
yesterday, challenging provisions of the new welfare and immigration laws that
allow city employees to turn in illegal immigrants who seek services like police
protection, hospital care and public education.

The Mayor called the provisions unconstitutional and said they would overturn a
New York City executive order in effect since 1985 that forbids city employees
to report illegal immigrants. He argued that the measures violated the 10th
Amendment, which gives states those powers not expressly delegated to the
Federal Government.

In this case, Mr. Giuliani said, "it would be the police power to protect the
health and safety of people, which is a power that is uniquely granted to state
and local governments."

The Mayor, who announced plans to file the lawsuit last month, said that other
local officials, including the mayors of St. Paul and Chicago, were considering
similar legal challenges.

Mr. Giuliani repeated his concerns that under the new law, the city's estimated
400,000 illegal immigrants would stop sending their children to public schools,
stop reporting crimes and avoid seeking treatment for contagious diseases in
city hospitals out of fear that officials would report them to the Federal
Government.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 22, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Government Is Quickly Using Power of New Immigration Law

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 887 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 21


In the three weeks since President Clinton signed a bill changing immigration
rules, the Justice Department has gone to Federal court to seek the dismissal of
four of five class-action lawsuits filed on behalf of hundreds of thousands of
aliens who say the immigration service unfairly denied them eligibility for
legal residence.

The Justice Department's action demonstrates how the Government is vigorously
trying to use the new law, the Illegal Immigration Reform and Responsibility Act
of 1996, to severely restrict, and in some instances eliminate, the authority of
Federal courts to review decisions by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in deportation and legalization cases. In effect, it strips noncitizens of the
right to take complaints against the agency to court.

So far, the Justice Department enforcement effort has focused mainly on a
cluster of lawsuits filed on behalf of people living in the United States
illegally who said they were improperly refused legal status under the
Government amnesty program in the mid-1980's. About three million people living
illegally in the United States became legal residents under the program.

The suits involve thousands of others who did not apply for legal status during
the application period of May 1987 to May 1988 because, they say, the
immigration service incorrectly told them they did not meet the eligibility
criteria, explained the rules incorrectly or in some cases refused to give them
application forms. Lawyers for the plaintiffs say there are nearly 400,000
people in this category, although Justice Departments officials say the figure
is closer to 100,000 people.

The new law leaves many of these amnesty applicants in a legal limbo that for
many has lasted for more than a decade. Immigration officials said they expect
to prevail in their effort to dismiss the suits, but immigration lawyers have
said they will aggressively contest the motions to dismiss the suits.

Immigration officials said that if they succeed, they do not plan to seek out
illegal aliens for deportation. But the officials said they would deport any of
the participants in the suits if they were picked up in the course of another
immigration service action, like a raid on an employer.

The new law limiting immigrants' access to the courts reflects a harsh reality:
that the political furor in Congress and the Administration about illegal
immigration and criminal aliens has found its way into law. The restrictions on
judicial review were adopted with little debate.

Lawmakers who supported the bill said it was necessary to unclog an immigration
system swamped with lawsuits by people without citizenship or residency rights
who used the Federal courts to prolong their stays in the United States or even
gain a foothold on American citizenship.

In effect, the new law eliminates broad class-action lawsuits like those that
have been filed by groups complaining of illegal conduct over issues including
warrantless searches of farmworkers' homes and lawsuits on behalf of Haitian,
Guatemalan and Salvadoran asylum seekers.

In most cases, individuals would still be able to sue the Government under the
law, although in some cases even that route to the courts would be blocked, for
example, when the Government had started deportation proceedings against an
alien for committing a crime. Class-action suits could be reviewed by the
Supreme Court. But civil rights and some Government lawyers doubt that the Court
would take them.

The Administration supported the restrictions on class-action suits but did not
support the full range of limits on judicial review in the law. Paul W. Virtue,
deputy general counsel at the immigration service, said that Congress seemed to
have acted in response to a belief that the courts had "gotten carried away in a
number of areas, reviewing not only the law but factual issues."

The scope of the restrictions is reflected in other areas. So far, the Justice
Department has filed motions to dismiss two other cases.

The Government moved on Oct. 11 to dismiss a case known as the "L.A. 8"
involving seven Palestinians and one Kenyan, noncitizens who have contended that
they were unfairly singled out for deportation because of their political
activities. An appeals court has ruled that the plaintiffs, whom the Government
wanted to deport as terrorists, were picked out for exercising their First
Amendment rights.

"In this case the courts have unanimously found that the immigration service
should be barred from violating First Amendment rights," said David Cole, a
lawyer for the eight. "Instead of correcting the problem, the I.N.S. argues that
this statute denies any forum to hear these claims."

In another case, the Government on Oct. 16 asked a Federal judge in Seattle to
reconsider a decision that found that the immigration service had misled people
into giving up their right to hearings to contest accusations of document fraud.

"This case had nothing to do with the deportation process itself and therefore
is not subject to the restriction in the new statute," said Lucas Guttentag, a
lawyer at the immigrants' rights project of the American Civil Liberties Union
in San Francisco. "This is a clear example of overreaching by the Clinton
Administration to make a bad law even worse."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Fear at Marriage Bureaus' Tougher ID Checks

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 706 words


Stricter enforcement of rules for showing valid identification at the city's
marriage bureaus has sown confusion among thousands of illegal immigrants who
are lining up to be married before tougher immigration laws take effect next
month, advocates for immigrants say.

City officials said yesterday that the rules -- which require one of five forms
of identification with a picture -- had been in place for several years. The
major change, they said, is that clerks began to scrutinize identification cards
and passports more closely in early February because they suspected that many
applicants were using fake documents.

In addition, two police officers are now stationed in each bureau to arrest
those with forged papers. And last week, as lines grew longer at the city's five
bureaus, the City Clerk's office began to hand out fliers explaining the rules.

Civil libertarians contend that the heightened scrutiny has discouraged illegal
immigrants from seeking marriage, which case law has held to be a fundamental
right protected under the Constitution. News accounts this week describing the
rules as a bar to illegal immigrants have also contributed to rampant rumors,
they said, adding that they believed the City Clerk, Carlos Cuevas, should do
more to clear up the confusion.

"In my own mind, if the city doesn't clarify this position, we'll have to give
serious consideration to going to court to challenge it," said Norman Siegel,
the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union. He added that he
had been contacted by applicants interested in pursuing a legal case after being
turned away.

"At a minimum there's confusion and a lack of clarity regarding what's
happening," Mr. Siegel said. "The appearance is that if you're undocumented, the
city of New York will not marry you."

Outside the marriage bureau in the Municipal Building in lower Manhattan
yesterday, signs taped to walls and windows informed applicants that they had to
show one of the following: a driver's license, a nondriver's identification
card, a military identification card, a United States passport or foreign
passort with a valid visa or proof of visa extension, or a registration card for
foreign residents, commonly known as a green card.

Advocates for immigrants have questioned whether the requirement for a valid
visa was previously part of the City Clerk's rules and, if so, whether the
office ever enforced it.

Raymond C. Teatum, the First Deputy City Clerk, said yesterday that the rule had
been in place for years and had been enforced long before the surge in marriage
applications. Now, he said, clerks simply check more carefully and are watchful
for forged visas or cards. For the first time, two city police officers are also
stationed at each bureau, and have arrested about four people a week in each
bureau since they began last month, Mr. Teatum said.

"It's our moral obligation to make sure that these people are the people they
say there are," Mr. Teatum said. "But we have no intention of stopping illegal
aliens from getting married. We're not in the immigration business. That's why
we have a Federal office down the street."

Mr. Teatum added that the City Clerk's office had married couples who it knew
were illegal immigrants as long as he could remember.

In some cases recently, the rules denied illegal immigrants marriage licenses
because the only form of identification they brought was a foreign passport with
an expired visa. In many more cases, advocates for immigrants said, rumors have
led illegal immigrants to stay away, believing that they cannot get a marriage
license and can be arrested and deported if they apply.

The rules, however, do not appear to shut the door on illegal immigrants. There
is nothing in the state's Vehicle and Traffic Law, for example, that forbids a
nonresident of the United States to request or get a New York State driver's
license or nondriver's identification card.

Mr. Teatum said that he had asked Paul Crotty, the Corporation Counsel, to
review the City Clerk's rules to determine whether or not they violated the
Constitution. Lorna Goodman, a spokeswoman for the Corporation Counsel, said an
opinion on the issue was expected this week.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lines continued yesterday at the marriage bureau in Manhattan,
as officials said they had become more strict in requiring identification.
(Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 16, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Eases Marriage Rule For Foreigners

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 766 words


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday that immigrants who applied for
marriage licenses in New York City could not be turned away if they were in the
country illegally and used a foreign passport with an expired visa as
identification.

Mr. Giuliani said the new rule was intended to clarify procedures at the City
Clerk's offices, which have been crowded in recent weeks with immigrants who are
hoping to get married before stricter Federal immigration laws take effect on
April 1.

For years, the city has asked for one of five forms of picture identification
from people who want to get married, including a passport, though advocates for
immigrants say that requirement was not stringently enforced until the prospect
of the new immigration laws led to long lines at marriage bureaus.

Another requirement was that immigrants who showed foreign passports as their
identification had to have a valid visa to obtain a license.

But Mr. Giuliani said the city's lawyers had decided on Friday night that the
city had no right to bar people with expired visas from receiving a marriage
license. He emphasized, though, that officials could alert law enforcement
officials about people suspected of engaging in a fraudulent marriage to evade
immigration laws, such as an illegal immigrant who married a citizen solely to
stay in the country.

"The Clerk has a right to ask for identification," Mr. Giuliani told reporters,
"but if you produce any one form of that identification, then the Clerk should
marry you." He later added, "They don't necessarily have to produce a visa."

Mr. Giuliani released a letter from the city's Corporation Counsel, Paul A.
Crotty, to the City Clerk's office.

"Marriage is a civil contract and there is no impediment to its entry based
solely on immigration status," Mr. Crotty wrote. "At the same time, however, the
City Clerk should not be made party to a fraudulent marriage entered into solely
in order to evade our immigration laws."

Administration officials said they expected the City Clerk's office to begin
observing the rule tomorrow.

The confusion over the procedures at the marriage bureaus has grown in recent
weeks, since city officials began to scrutinize the forms of identification in
an effort to weed out fraudulent papers.

Officials at the City Clerk's office insisted they had not changed the policy
regarding documents they required. Until Mr. Giuliani's announcement, any one of
these met the requirement: a driver's license, a nondriver's identification
card, a military identification card, a United States passport or foreign
passport with a valid visa or proof of visa extension, or a registration card
for foreign residents, commonly known as a green card.

Even before the new rule doing away with the need for a visa, illegal immigrants
could find other legal ways to get a marriage license, and city officials
acknowledge that they have married illegal immigrants.

For example, there is nothing in state law to prevent a nonresident of the
United States from obtaining a driver's license or a nondriver's identification
card, both of which can be used at the marriage bureaus.

But that aspect of the rules may have been too arcane for some immigrants not
familiar with the state and city laws. And advocates for immigrants said reports
that illegal immigrants without valid visas had been turned away from the
marriage bureaus had stirred rumors that such people would be arrested by the
city and deported.

The city, though, does not enforce immigration laws, which are under Federal
jurisdiction.

Until last year, New York City prohibited city workers from turning over
information about illegal immigrants to the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service. However, those rules allowed an exception if the illegal
immigrants were believed to have committed a crime.

The new Federal welfare law appeared to have overturned those rules, and Mr.
Giuliani has sued to block that provision of the law.

Norman Siegel, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union,
praised Mr. Giuliani yesterday for announcing the change in the marriage
requirements. But Mr. Siegel added that the Mayor should also order city
officials to do a better job of informing immigrants of their rights when they
go to the marriage bureaus.

"This is the correct decision, and we commend the Mayor," Mr. Siegel said. "But
he has to do more. Because of the confusion that was caused by the City Clerk's
office, he has to mount a public education campaign to let people know about
this in the immigrant communities."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 30, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CHATTER;
Immigrants With a Record

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 3; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 407 words


Asking whether immigrants with criminal records should be deported drew hundreds
of passionate responses, which were about evenly divided.

Built on Immigrants

America is built on immigrants. How could we deport a legal immigrant just
because he or she just committed unintended crimes? Of course, those who have
long criminal records should be deported. They should not be permitted to enter
into this country from the begining.

We have to find a way to collect taxes from illegal or legal immigrants and
citizens or non-citizens who work and never pay taxes.

PATRICK WANG
Floral Park, N.Y.

Deport Them

Should legal immigrants with criminal backgrounds be allowed to stay? No way. If
they lied to get in, they should be deported immediately.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service must begin to do its job. If they
can't secure America's borders, then they should conduct raids to round up all
the illegals they can and deport them.

Why doesn't the I.N.S. deploy agents to the marriage bureaus to arrest and
deport these people entering into bogus marriages? Once an illegal immigrant
child is found at school he should be held until the parents show up. That way
family unity can be maintained and the whole batch deported together.

BARBARA RAMPT
Chatham

Check Everyone

At one time, every one of us was an immigrant. If the I.N.S. is to check the
history of immigrants, then why stop with new immigrants? Think of it as a
privilege to be a citizen of this country. There should not be any law making
those immigrants inferior to any born here.

AMJAD RIAZ
Parlin

Give Them a Chance

They should be given a chance to stay here. It is not fair to deport anyone
because he did something bad in the past. Nobody will go along with shooting and
killings, but that is not very common among immigrants. In the jails, only a
small portion of inmates are immigrants. They are hard-working and honest people
holding low-paying jobs. I think they should be given a chance to prove that
they can be a good citizen of the United States. I am an immigrant, and I have a
lot of love for this country. I have been here for seven years and have not even
gotten a parking ticket.

SAJID MEHMOOD
Farmingdale, N.Y.

Watch Out for Tourists

They should definitely be allowed to stay. The Empire State Building shooter was
a tourist, not an immigrant.

SANDRA GONZALVEZ
Nutley

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 1, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Official Falsified Documents for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 379 words


A senior immigration official in New Jersey accepted gifts ranging from Oriental
rugs to roofing materials for falsifying documents that enabled aliens to enter
the United States illegally, Federal authorities said yesterday.

Since 1988, the official, John F. Lonergan, has supervised 200 inspection and
examination employees at Newark International Airport and at the agency's Newark
office, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service said.

An indictment handed up by a Federal grand jury in Newark accuses Mr. Lonergan,
49, of Belmar, N.J., of conspiring with a document broker -- someone who helps
foreigners wend their way through the complex immigration process -- to make
false statements on forms for allowing aliens living in the United States to
re-enter the United States after traveling abroad. The documents were used by an
unspecified number of aliens, including two Iraqi citizens living in Jordan, to
gain entry to this country.

The document broker met with Mr. Lonergan at restaurants in Newark and provided
him with gifts that included luxury items like a Hartmann briefcase and Mont
Blanc pens as well as truck tires and cash for a vacation in Aruba, the
indictment said.

The broker was not named in the indictment, but he has been identified in other
court documents as Nagy Khairallah, an informer who previously cooperated with
Drug Enforcement Administration investigations and has served time for perjury.
In one of two recorded telephone conversations between Mr. Khairallah and Mr.
Lonergan, the immigration service official is heard responding to questions
about the construction work on his roof, according to a court document.

Although the Iraqis are also not named in the indictment, they are the only
aliens specifically cited. But Jeffrey D. Smith, the assistant United States
Attorney handling the case, said the two are not believed to pose a danger. He
said the papers falsified by Mr. Lonergan stated that they were New Jersey
residents.

Mr. Lonergan, who was suspended with pay by the immigration service after he was
arrested on July 2, joined the I.N.S. in 1972, the agency spokesman, Russell A.
Bergeron Jr., said in Washington.Mr. Lonergan remains free on $20,000 bail,
prosecutors said.



LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 11, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Mayor Seeks Immigration Coalition

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Oct. 10


Having received national attention for his vigorous stand in favor of
immigration, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani today announced the formation of a
coalition of prominent New Yorkers to help him lead the fight against the
provisions of two new Federal laws that he views as anti-immigrant.

The Mayor also said he planned to file suit on Friday in Federal court in New
York City challenging a provision in the new welfare law, as well as a similar
provision in the new Federal immigration law, that allows city employees to turn
in illegal immigrants who seek services like police protection, hospital care
and public education. The provisions overturn a New York City executive order in
effect since 1985 that forbids city employees from reporting illegal immigrants,
and the Mayor said last month he would fight them.

In a speech to students and faculty at the John F. Kennedy School of Government
at Harvard University this evening, Mr. Giuliani said he had spent several weeks
seeking out other proponents of immigration to join him in speaking out against
the national tide of anti-immigration feeling. At a time when even President
Clinton has been signing laws that deprive legal immigrants of government
benefits, he said, it is important for other voices to be heard.

"People need to hear the other side of the immigration argument," Mr. Giuliani
said in a brief interview before the speech, adding, "Then I think you'll see
some of the percentages that show up on public opinion polls change."

Among the members of the coalition, he said, would be Robert Tisch, co-chairman
of Loew's Corporation; Alan Greenberg, chairman of Bear Stearns & Company; Peter
Max, the artist; George Soros, the international financier and founder of the
Emma Lazarus Fund, which assists legal immigrants, and William Fugazy, the
transportation company executive. He said that the United Jewish Appeal and the
New York Association for New Americans were among the other organizations
planning to join him.

The coalition, he said, will urge Washington to rewrite the provisions that
affect legal immigrants, and will offer specific help to those immigrants who
lose their benefits under the new laws. The city's Office of Immigrant Affairs,
part of the Mayor's office, will also be used to help immigrants affected by the
laws.

The welfare law that President Clinton signed in August bars most immigrants
admitted legally to the United States from receiving food stamps and
Supplemental Security Income, which provides benefits for the elderly and the
disabled poor. It also denies public assistance, including welfare and Medicaid,
to legal immigrants during their first five years in the United States.

According to estimates released this week by the City Council's Finance Office,
those provisions will significantly reduce the amount of public assistance
flowing to immigrants in New York City, cutting Federal spending in the city by
as much as $370 million in 1998. Approximately 130,000 immigrants will lose
their food stamps by 1998, according to the estimates, while 30,800 will lose
their Supplemental Security Income and 18,480 will lose their Medicaid benefits.
Those numbers could rise even further in later years.

The Mayor has also announced plans to file suit challenging those provisions of
the welfare law, but said today that the suit was not yet ready to be filed.

This evening's speech represented the third time Mr. Giuliani has traveled
outside New York in the last two months to discuss welfare and immigration
issues. As on previous trips, to Washington and Minneapolis, he praised the
industry and creativity of immigrants in helping to revitalize New York and
America over the years. But he was also critical of both Mr. Clinton and Bob
Dole, saying he could not tell the difference between the policy positions of
their parties. Both, he said, would hurt immigrants.

"Unfortunately, I listened very carefully to the Presidential debate a couple of
nights ago, and I didn't hear either one of those candidates, either the
President or Senator Dole, discuss the issue of immigration, even though very
significant legislation has been passed that would have a long-term impact on
it," Mr. Giuliani said. "And I think that's unfortunate. America needs an open
and a frank discussion about immigration, and it should be decided with a lot
more emphasis on trying to get beyond the sound bite and a quick emotional
response, because I believe the threat to immigration is really a threat to the
future of the country."



LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Move to Restore Benefits to Some Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 712 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 3


President Clinton forced reluctant Republicans to restore disability and health
benefits to several hundred thousand legal immigrants as part of the budget
agreement announced this week.

Budget negotiators said the agreement would provide $10 billion over the next
five years to aid the immigrants, whose benefits were cut by the welfare bill
that Republicans pushed through Congress last year. The immigrants' plight had
become a source of increasing political embarrassment for the Republicans and
for Mr. Clinton, who signed the welfare bill on Aug. 22.

In addition, Administration officials said, the budget agreement would provide
$4.5 billion for new initiatives to move people from welfare to work. Some of
the money is intended to create jobs for able-bodied adults who, under the
welfare law, may receive food stamps for only three months in any 36-month
period unless they are working.

In December, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the welfare law
would save $55 billion from 1997 to 2002. So the budget agreement, by restoring
$14.5 billion, would wipe out slightly more than one-fourth of the expected
savings.

Clinton Administration officials described the restoration of benefits for
immigrants as "a pretty significant victory for us." And a Republican on Capitol
Hill said "a lot of Republicans will be upset" by the proposal, but he predicted
that they would "swallow hard" and approve it as part of a far-reaching plan to
balance the budget and cut taxes.

Under the new welfare law, legal immigrants who have not become citizens are
generally ineligible for food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, a form of
cash assistance for poor people who are aged, blind or disabled.

Some of the immigrants losing benefits are nursing home residents. Many have
been in the United States for more than 15 years. Some fled persecution in
Russia, Cuba or other countries.

The budget agreement would allow the Government to provide Supplemental Security
Income to noncitizens who were in the United States before Aug. 22, 1996, and
who were either receiving disability benefits at that time or became disabled at
a later date. The agreement is expected to help two-thirds of the 500,000
immigrants facing loss of Supplemental Security Income benefits. It would not
help new immigrants, and it would not restore food stamps for any immigrants.

Representative Xavier Becerra, Democrat of California, who is chairman of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said he was disappointed that the budget
negotiators could not find a few billion dollars more to preserve benefits for
all immigrants.

The Government had already sent notices to many immigrants informing them that
they might lose Supplemental Security Income benefits this summer. At first,
Congressional Republicans categorically rejected Mr. Clinton's proposals to
restore money cut by the welfare law.

But Congressional Republicans came under pressure from many quarters. Republican
governors, including George E. Pataki of New York, appealed for help. Large
groups of immigrants filed lawsuits challenging the constitutionality of the ban
on benefits for noncitizens.

And Hispanic groups cited several cases in which they said immigrants had
committed suicide because they were distraught at the prospect of losing
benefits.

Advocates for immigrants and refugees and officials in states like New York,
California and Florida, with many noncitizens, welcomed the agreement. "This
doesn't help everybody who needs help, but it is an important first step," said
Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights organization.

The Congressional Budget Office had estimated that the restrictions on benefits
for immigrants would save $24 billion from 1997 to 2002. The restoration of $10
billion, as envisioned in the budget agreement, would undo more than 40 percent
of those savings.

Administration officials said the agreement provided $2.5 billion over the next
five years for grants to the states to help create jobs for welfare recipients
in areas with high levels of poverty and unemployment. Also, they said, the
agreement includes $500 million for tax credits for businesses that hire
long-term welfare recipients.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 29, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

If Immigrants Lose U.S. Aid, Local Budgets May Feel Pain

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1639 words

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif., July 27


The elaborate tattoos that adorn Bech Chuom's chest are meant to protect him
from wayward bullets, and he trusts the precepts he follows as a strict Buddhist
to safeguard his soul.

But a decade after Mr. Chuom, 72, arrived here as a refugee from Cambodia, he
depends entirely for his food and rent on a $551 monthly welfare check. Where he
might turn if that aid is taken from legal immigrants under the plans to
overhaul welfare now moving through Congress, he says, is a mystery.

"I am old," he said, speaking in Khmer through a translator. "My arms are weak.
There is nothing I can do anymore. If I do not receive the help, I will starve
and die."

With growing alarm, many local officials around the country are predicting
another result if welfare restrictions are enacted: that thousands of immigrants
like Mr. Chuom will turn to them, swamping nursing homes, local welfare agencies
and financially precarious public hospitals.

In Los Angeles County alone, officials say, the added burden in local welfare
and medical costs could climb to nearly $400 million a year, forcing drastic
cuts in other programs.

Officials in New York City estimate that 10 percent of the people who receive
Medicaid or benefits for the elderly and disabled could be cut off, reducing the
amount of aid flowing into the city by more than $290 million a year.

"The impact on states with high populations of legal immigrants will be
profound," said Christine C. Burch, the executive director of the National
Association of Public Hospitals. "The immigrants will still get health care. But
it will be the responsibility of local government or, in the case of private
hospitals, it will come out of their charity budgets."

For months, immigration advocates have focused their attention and energy on a
pending immigration bill that would reduce benefits to noncitizens by $5.4
billion over seven years. The magnitude of the proposed cuts in the revived
welfare legislation has left them stunned.

The welfare bill passed by the House on July 18 would make most legal immigrants
ineligible for Medicaid, food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, or
S.S.I., the Federal program that provides cash support for poor elderly, blind
and disabled people. Of the $61.6 billion that the legislation would trim from
the Federal budget over seven years, about half would come from reducing aid to
these immigrants.

A second version of the bill, passed by the Senate last Tuesday, would allow the
states to decide whether to take Medicaid benefits away from legal immigrants
already living in the United States. Like the House's version, the Senate bill
would give states the option to bar those resident immigrants from some other
programs as well, and it would prevent future legal immigrants from receiving
most Federal benefits until they had been in the country for five years.

The Senate bill would save about $56 billion by 2002. Almost half of that would
come from aid to legal immigrants, who would remain liable for Federal and state
taxes.

House and Senate negotiators are expected to produce a final draft of the
legislation next week. On Friday, one of the House conferees, Representative E.
Clay Shaw Jr., Republican of Florida, said House Republicans might be willing to
compromise on several issues, including Medicaid benefits for legal immigrants.

Under either version of the bill, Medicaid coverage for emergency health care
would be preserved, even for those who enter the country illegally.

Even though much of the political support for the cutbacks can be traced to
public anger over the social costs of illegal immigration, the welfare bills
would specifically restrict illegal immigrants only from some smaller programs,
including school lunches for children and gang-prevention programs.

The cuts in benefits for legal immigrants have also been fueled by the growing
belief, particularly among conservatives, that immigrants have taken unfair
advantage of the system.

Despite the concern of state officials in Texas that the welfare cuts would
shift much of what is now an annual $614 million Federal liability to the local
authorities there, Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, among others, has argued in
strong support of the bill.

"I think that the vast majority of the people of Texas believe that immigrants
should come to Texas with their sleeves rolled up, ready to go to work, and not
with their hands out, ready to go on welfare," said Mr. Gramm, a Republican.

In an apparent reflection of the complicated politics of the issue, Gov. Pete
Wilson of California, a Republican who has led a campaign to get the Federal
Government to reimburse states for the costs of illegal immigration, kept
largely silent about the cuts in benefits for legal immigrants until late last
week.

But in an interview on Thursday, Mr. Wilson said that although he had some
concerns about the local impact of the legislation, his complaints about it
centered on the refusal of Congress to grant states wider authority to redesign
their welfare and Medicaid programs. He called the proposed reductions in
benefits to legal immigrants "the kind of step that needs to be taken to prevent
Federal taxpayers from being inundated with people who come, especially late in
life, and become public charges."

Population surveys have shown that in the last three decades, immigrant
noncitizens have become somewhat more dependent than native-born Americans on
Supplemental Security Income and Medicaid.

To some researchers, including George J. Borjas, an economist at Harvard
University, that shift clearly fits into a demographic trend in which the
immigrants in the newer waves from Asia and Latin America have come to the
United States with less education and fewer job skills than the immigrants who
preceded them, most of them European.

Other experts contend that the welfare statistics for legal immigrants are
skewed by the heavy use of benefits by two groups -- refugees and the elderly --
that have grown more numerous because of changes in immigration laws since 1965.

A look at some of the lives that fall into those two categories suggests that
simply withdrawing benefits from older immigrants and refugees is unlikely to
jolt them from dependency.

On a quiet street in Oakland's San Antonio district, one of the city's poorest,
a decrepit, two-story apartment building has become home to a small community of
Cambodian refugees. The days seem to come and go with only the most tentative
forays outside: shopping, visiting the doctor, getting children off to school.

After providing a fresh coat of stucco and perhaps a swimming pool in the drab,
concrete patio, a hopeful suburban landlord might have given the place a name
like Palm Gardens or Tudor Court. Instead, it seems exotic only for the
occasional smells that waft from small kitchens and for the elderly men and
women who sit chatting quietly in Khmer.

Tith Chin, 40, a former Cambodian soldier who survived a Khmer Rouge labor camp
and the long trek to refuge in Thailand, said he had worked in an Atlanta bakery
when he came to the United States in 1983.

He might work again, he said, if he could find a way to care for his ailing wife
and three children. He said he would also like to apply for United States
citizenship but did not think he spoke enough English to pass the test. Still,
he could not imagine how he would make up for the loss of the $707 that he and
his wife get each month under Aid to Families With Dependent Children, the main
Federal program of cash assistance.

"When we first came here, the Americans said, 'We will help you,' " he said in
hesitant English. "And now they want to change this law. Why?"

Unlike other legal immigrants, who are at least initially the economic
responsibility of the American citizens who sponsor them, refugees are eligible
for Federal benefits upon their arrival. Both the Senate and House bills would
continue benefits to refugees during their first five years in the United
States. The legislation would also waive the new restrictions for immigrants who
have worked for a total of 10 years without drawing Federal aid and for those
who have served in the military.

At Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn, where the signs are printed in English,
Spanish and Russian, the director, Howard C. Cohen, said the proposed Medicaid
cutbacks would strip insurance from many of the elderly immigrants who are
already his patients. He said it would also inundate the hospital with many more
such patients, those turned away for other than emergency care by private
hospitals and private doctors.

"We would just get dumped on," he said.

Nowhere is that kind of shift expected to be felt more acutely than in
California, home to nearly 40 percent of the roughly 1.5 million legal
immigrants who now get Federal benefits.

Officials said most poor and elderly immigrants would still qualify for general
assistance, the locally financed aid program of last resort. In Los Angeles
County, the 93,000 immigrants who could potentially seek such help would almost
equal the number now on the rolls.

That problem is compounded across California by the fact that although the state
government would expect to save close to $300 million of the money it now spends
annually to supplement Federal S.S.I. payments to legal immigrants, the state
contributes nothing to the county to help pay for general assistance.

"If no other relief is obtained, this could be very extreme," said Sandra M.
Davis, the interim chief administrative officer for Los Angeles County, which
faced a $1.2 billion shortfall last year.

"It would mean closing the Parks Department, closing the beaches and museums --
all administrative operations would be significantly reduced," she said. "It
could throw the county into an insolvent position."


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Congressional plan to overhaul welfare would deny such aid to
many legal immigrants. Bech Chuom, 72, who came to the United States as a
refugee from Cambodia a decade ago, depends entirely on a welfare check. (Darcy
Padilla for The New York Times) (pg. A12)

Table: "BY THE NUMBERS: Who Gets Welfare" shows the percentage of immigrants and
native-born Americans who receive aid from Federal programs, based on 1990
figures. (Source: The Urban Institute) (pg. A12)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New Demands by White House Are Made on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 594 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26


Two days after Republicans dropped President Clinton's major objection to an
immigration bill, the White House today demanded additional changes and
threatened to delay a catch-all spending bill if Republicans did not comply.

House and Senate Republican leaders immediately denounced the Administration,
with Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Senate Republican leader, asserting,
"The goal posts have been moved."

Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House Republican leader, said, "I am
extremely disappointed that the President has threatened to tie the budget
process in knots unless we gut the immigration bill."

The immigration bill that came out of a Senate-House conference committee was
approved by the House on Wednesday 305 to 123. The Senate has not voted on the
final bill.

Congress must also approve additional legislation -- either appropriations bills
or a stopgap spending measure -- or else risk another Government shutdown after
Tuesday, the start of the new fiscal year. These are the measures the White
House threatens to delay unless further changes are made in immigration
legislation.

Mr. Clinton now wants the Republican leadership to drop two provisions that
Administration officials say are unfair to legal immigrants.  One would set
minimum-income requirements for immigrant sponsors and the other would allow the
Government to deport legal immigrants who used more than 12 months of public
assistance, including Medicaid, English classes and child care, in a 7-year
period.

The combined threat of a Democratic-led bipartisan Senate filibuster and a veto
from Mr. Clinton had already forced the Republicans to drop a provision that
would have allowed states to deny public schooling to children who were illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Clinton and the Democratic leadership in Congress have said virtually
nothing until recently about these latest objections. But today Senator Tom
Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, said, "Those kind of things, in
our view, are very mean-spirited, unnecessary, and they shouldn't be in the
bill."

Mr. Daschle added that he "didn't do as good a job as I should have in
articulating" the objections.

But a leading Democrat on immigration issues, Senator Dianne Feinstein of
California, said she wanted the immigration bill approved. Of the newly voiced
White House objections Ms. Feinstein said: "We can talk about it and legislate
it next year.  For now, let's get this done."

Many of the same advocacy groups that criticized Mr. Clinton for signing the
welfare bill, which restricts public benefits to legal immigrants, have been
pressuring the Administration on the immigration bill.  One of them, the
National Immigration Forum, today released an analysis of Immigration and
Naturalization Service data that illustrated the case for dropping the
minimum-income requirement.

Under the immigration bill, a sponsor would have to earn 140 percent of the
poverty level, or $21,788 for a family of four, to bring a spouse or minor
children into the country. The sponsor would have to earn 200 percent of the
poverty level, or $31,200 for a family of four, to bring in parents, siblings or
adult children.

According to the forum's analysis, 36 percent of the citizens who sponsored
their young immigrant children in 1994 would have been unable to do so under the
new bill. Forty-four percent of the citizens who sponsored immigrant parents,
siblings or adult children would have been prevented from bringing in their
relatives under the new bill.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 14, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Number Becoming Citizens Drops Sharply in New York

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1203 words


Even as immigrants seek citizenship at a record pace, the number who are being
naturalized in New York City, one of the nation's immigrant meccas, has dropped
precipitously since October.

Federal immigration officials said yesterday that they believed the decline was
temporary. They attributed it to two factors: a computer problem, combined with
new, more time-consuming procedures intended to do a better job of preventing
criminals from becoming citizens. They said the pace of naturalizations would
soon pick up again.

But the decline is occurring just as a new welfare law is about to take effect
that makes citizenship a condition for most immigrants to receive food stamps.
"Citizenship has become the pass key to the social welfare state for immigrants,
so the speed of the process is now more crucial than it has ever been before,"
said Michael Fix, a researcher at the Urban Institute in Washington.

The wooden benches of the Federal courthouse in Brooklyn, which were jammed
earlier this year with immigrants waiting to take the oath of allegiance, are
often empty or sparsely filled these days. At yesterday's ceremony in the
courtroom, only 20 immigrants were sworn in, compared to the usual 300.

And in the last two weeks, as the more stringent procedures for criminal
background checks have gone into effect nationwide, many immigrants across the
country have been sent home when they showed up for their scheduled swearing-in
ceremonies because the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service had
not yet received the F.B.I. report on whether their criminal records were clean.

In Los Angeles, two mass ceremonies for 10,000 immigrants that were to have been
held at the Convention Center on Thursday were canceled because of changes in
criminal background checks put in place in September, immigration officials
said.

Immigration experts say the new welfare law has made the prompt achievement of
citizenship especially important to impoverished immigrants. For the first time,
beginning in the spring, hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants who are not
citizens will lose food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, a program many
elderly immigrants rely on.

Allen Abersman, chief deputy clerk for Federal District Court for the Central
District of California, in Los Angeles, which last year swore in 219,000 new
citizens, said he believed the delays would be short-lived, but he said state
and county officials there would be watching closely to see if they persist.
"The concern is that people are going to go off the road into a ditch and lose
benefits before they have a chance to become citizens," he said.

Federal immigration authorities say the pace of naturalizations is likely to
pick up again once the process for conducting criminal background checks through
the Federal Bureau of Investigation is partly computerized early next year.

Besides the delays with background checks, a computer problem at the eastern
regional processing center in Vermont resulted in many fewer notices for
citizenship interviews being sent out to applicants. But that problem, which
first developed in April, was fixed at the end of October, officials said.

The immigration service, grappling with a huge surge in citizenship applications
over the last two years, has increased its work force and cut the time it takes
an immigrant to become a citizen to what immigration officials considered an
acceptable level of six months, down from a year or more.

There has been an enormous surge in the number of people seeking citizenship in
the past two years, in part because of immigrants' fears about losing their
eligibility for Federal benefits. More than one million people sought to be
naturalized in 1995 and in 1996.

Clinton Administration officials said the new, more rigorous background checks
were necessary to insure that no criminals became citizens, even though they
knew it would cause some temporary delays.

"We're working to maintain the integrity of the naturalization program so the
American public can be assured that only qualified individuals receive one of
the most important benefits bestowed by the United States," said Eric Andrus, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. He said
the agency would try to keep the wait for citizenship to six months.

In New York City, a wait that had averaged a year or more in 1995 was cut to
three or four months this year. But it has crept back up to five months in the
last couple of months, officials said.

Federal court officials who oversee swearing-in ceremonies for immigrants from
Brooklyn, Queens and parts of Long Island say they are worried that the
Immigration Service's new criminal background-check rules or other problems may
continue to cause general delays in the citizenship process for the law-abiding
as well as the law-breaking.

Charles Sifton, Chief Judge of Federal District Court for the Eastern District
of New York, said the immigration agency was wrong to clamp down suddenly on the
criminal background checks.

"To suddenly turn off the spigot makes everyone in the pipeline suffer for what
will probably be a very few cases where they find a criminal," he said. "They
can always revoke citizenship for those who lie about their records. When you've
got a bureaucratic mess of this sort, it's a mistake just to shut things down
unless there's no other recourse."

The Administration twice changed the immigration service's procedures for
criminal background checks. Republicans had complained that the Administration
was rushing new immigrants into citizenship without adequately checking their
criminal histories so they could vote Democratic in November. Immigration
officials denied that politics was a factor.

On Sept. 27, the agency doubled the time it would wait for an F.B.I. report on a
citizenship applicant's criminal record to 120 days. If the F.B.I. reply was not
received by then, the agency's policy was to assume the individual's record was
clean and to go forward with the swearing in.

Then on Nov. 29, the agency tightened the procedures another notch, declaring
that no one would be made a citizen until an F.B.I. report was in hand, no
matter how long it took.

Court officials in New York's Eastern District who preside at the citizenship
ceremonies for Brooklyn and Queens say they first noticed the drop off in new
citizens taking the oath in October. Starting on Oct. 24, eight ceremonies in a
row were canceled, each of which would typically have produced 300 new citizens,
because no new applicants were scheduled by the immigration service.

From April to September, the court naturalized on average more than 4,600 people
a month. In November, only 1,693 people were sworn in.

"The numbers were going up and suddenly the bottom dropped out," said Robert C.
Heinemann, clerk of the court.

Clifford Kirsch, the district executive for Federal District Court for the
Southern District of New York, which covers Manhattan and naturalizes many fewer
immigrants than in the Eastern district, began noticing a drop off only last
week. Usually, the court naturalizes 220 people a week, he said. Last week, only
18 took the oath.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yesterday at the Federal Courthouse in Brooklyn, 20 new citizens
were sworn in; a typical total had been 300. (Ruby Washington/The New York
Times)(pg. 28)

Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: Suddenly, Fewer Citizens" shows the number of persons
naturalized in the U.S. District Court's eatern district of New York from April
1995 to Nov. 1996. (Source: United States District Court)(pg. 28)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 3, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

GOVERNORS LIMIT REVISIONS SOUGHT IN WELFARE LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2


Under pressure from Congressional Republicans, leaders of the National
Governors' Association today decided not to seek wholesale changes in the new
Federal welfare law. Instead they issued a cautious appeal to Congress and the
Clinton Administration to work with them to meet the needs of a relatively small
group of legal immigrants who will lose Federal benefits.

Gov. George E. Pataki of New York, a Republican, was in the vanguard of
governors urging Congress to restore benefits for legal immigrants. He made a
strong statement of those views nine days ago, and at the time the association
seemed poised to follow his lead. But today, in the interest of getting an
agreement, Mr. Pataki and a fellow Republican, Gov. Pete Wilson of California,
joined other governors in supporting a compromise statement of policy.

The compromise came on the same day that the House Democratic leader, Richard A.
Gephardt of Missouri, said he wanted to see how the law worked before any major
changes were made.

The compromise, approved today by the association's human resources committee,
expresses concern about the effects of the new welfare law on one group of legal
immigrants, those who are already in the United States, but who cannot become
citizens because of age or disability.

The statement as originally drafted by the staff of the association said that
such immigrants "should not be barred from Federal Supplemental Security Income
benefits and food stamps."

Republican Congressional leaders and conservative Republican governors objected
to that wording. So the human resources committee softened the language.

The governors now urge Congress simply to "meet the needs of aged and disabled
legal immigrants who cannot naturalize and whose benefits may be affected."

Their statement goes on to say that "an equitable solution to this issue could
be achieved without reopening" the welfare law. Governor Wilson acknowledged
that there was an apparent contradiction here because most legal immigrants will
lose food stamps and Supplemental Security Income benefits unless the welfare
law is revised.

Comments by Mr. Pataki and other Republican governors, like Jim Edgar of
Illinois, had created expectations that the association would call for more
extensive changes in the welfare law.

In the last decade, the governors association has become an influential voice on
domestic social policy, and governors helped shape the new welfare law. While
they welcome the transfer of authority to the states, they also worry that the
law will impose financial burdens on those with large numbers of immigrants.

More than 40 percent of the law's savings, $24 billion of $55 billion over seven
years, result from restrictions on benefits for legal immigrants.

That curb was hotly debated in 1995 and 1996 as the welfare bill moved through
Congress. But at a news conference today, Governor Pataki said, "We were unaware
of this provision."

Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida, a Democrat, repeatedly expressed alarm about the
likely adverse effects on states like Florida with many immigrants and refugees.

Mr. Pataki has now concluded that the law will shift $240 million a year in
costs from the Federal Government to the State of New York, which intends to
provide assistance for 80,000 immigrants who lose Federal benefits.

"I don't think that it's appropriate for states to have to pick up the tab," Mr.
Pataki said today. "These legal immigrants are here in the United States, and
their status is legal, because of the policies of the Federal Government."

In his new budget this week, President Clinton will ask Congress to restore
benefits for some legal immigrants. Some Republican governors said they did not
want to be seen as siding with the President on this issue or calling on
Congress to reopen the bill.

Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican leader, has cautioned
Republican governors not to press for changes in the welfare law. And
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House Republican majority leader, said
today that he saw no prospect of such changes.

Asked whether Congress would revise the law to assist legal immigrants, Mr.
Armey said: "The answer is no. We will not change that." Immigrants are welcome
to work in the United States, but "we do not want to encourage people to come
here for benefits," Mr. Armey said on the CNN program "Late Edition."

Gov. John Engler of Michigan, a Republican who helped Congress write the new
welfare law, defended his work today. "We cannot be seen to say, 'Here's the
deal we negotiated a year ago, and now here are all the things we want to change
in it,' " Mr. Engler told other governors.

But Gov. Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, said the restrictions on benefits
for legal immigrants were not a trivial part of the new law.  "In my state," he
said, "we have a large population of legal immigrants who have paid local, state
and Federal taxes. To deny them coverage is contrary to what America stands
for."

Mr. Gephardt said today that Congress should see how the welfare law worked
before making big changes.

"I think we ought to let the bill be implemented and then see what the actual
problems are and then try to solve those problems if they appear," said Mr.
Gephardt, who voted against the bill.

To date, few people have lost benefits as a result of the law. The restrictions
on benefits for immigrants have not yet taken effect, and few people have
reached the time limits on cash assistance in any state. Moreover, the effects
of the law have been cushioned by a strong economy, which has reduced the number
of welfare recipients and created jobs for many people seeking work.

President Clinton says the restrictions on benefits for immigrants are not an
integral part of the law, whose main purpose is to move people from welfare to
work.

Several governors who agreed with Mr. Pataki said he would have been more
effective if he had worked quietly behind the scenes to put the governors'
association on record in favor of restoring benefits for some legal immigrants.
By holding a news conference here to publicize his concerns on Jan. 24, he shone
a spotlight on the issue, highlighting a split between himself and Republican
leaders of Congress.

Mr. Pataki defended his actions. He said he had been invited to Washington to
discuss his concerns on Jan. 24. "We were asked to outline our feelings on this
issue," he said today. "That's what we did."


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: National Governors' Association said yesterday that states
needed help meeting the needs of legal immigrants but that Congress should not
make wholesale changes in the welfare law. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New
Jersey presided over the group's meeting in Washington. (Associated Press) (pg.
B7)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 14, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Administration Welfare Plea Is Scorned

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 13


Administration officials pleaded with Congress today to restore welfare benefits
for legal immigrants who have not become citizens. But President Clinton came
under blistering criticism from liberal Democrats, who said he should never have
signed the bill that ended such benefits.

"The President sold out children to get re-elected," said Representative Pete
Stark, Democrat of California. "He's no better than the Republicans."

At a hearing of a House Ways and Means subcommittee, Mr. Stark said Mr. Clinton
should not expect much support for his proposals to soften the effects of the
new law.

The liberals' scorn for the Administration, combined with the reluctance of
Republicans to increase Federal spending for noncitizens, suggests that Congress
may reject many of Mr. Clinton's proposals. But it is possible that sentiment on
Capitol Hill may change if there is a public outcry when elderly and disabled
immigrants actually lose benefits in a few months under the new restrictions on
the Supplemental Security Income program.

"One of our greatest fears is that the United States will have a rash of
suicides among the very old and disabled immigrants who are left without any
source of income or medical care," said Sharon M. Daly of Catholic Charities.

Diana L. Aviv, director of the Washington office of the Council of Jewish
Federations, said, "We have reports from all parts of the country informing us
that elderly parents are considering suicide rather than impoverishing their
children and grandchildren with expenses that their families cannot possibly
pay."

Representative Robert T. Matsui, Democrat of California, said that
Administration officials were dreaming if they expected Congress to restore
benefits for immigrants. "It's going to be really hard for people to vote for
noncitizen benefits when they're taking away citizen benefits" by cutting
housing, education and other domestic programs, Mr. Matsui said.

The liberals said they had seen no evidence that Mr. Clinton would fight for his
proposal to restore benefits for some immigrants. And without a serious effort
by the President, they said, the proposal will die.

Rahm I. Emanuel, a senior adviser to Mr. Clinton, said tonight: "This is a
priority for the President. His words and his deeds show his commitment."

In December, many White House officials urged the President to seek a two-year
delay in provisions of the welfare law terminating benefits for legal
immigrants. Under pressure from immigrants and their advocates, Mr. Clinton
decided instead to seek full restoration of some benefits, at a total cost
exceeding $10 billion over five years.

But Mr. Matsui said Congress would not restore benefits for immigrants unless
the Governors of New York, California, Texas and Illinois lobbied for such
changes. All four states have large immigrant populations -- and Republican
Governors.

Mr. Matsui's political analysis echoed that of Republicans like Representative
E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, the subcommittee chairman. Mr. Shaw said
Congressional Republicans were united on this issue. "We are not going to reopen
last year's welfare reform bill," he said.

Olivia A. Golden, acting chief of the Federal Administration for Children and
Families, and Representative Sander M. Levin, a Michigan Democrat who ultimately
voted for the welfare bill, defended the President's proposals to soften its
effects.

Under the new law, most noncitizens are barred from the food stamp and
Supplemental Security Income programs. People receiving Supplemental Security
Income are usually entitled to Medicaid as well.

Ms. Golden said Congress should "make legal immigrants who become disabled after
entering the United States eligible for S.S.I. and Medicaid." This proposal
would help 320,000 immigrants, she said.

But Mr. Stark said Mr. Clinton "has taken over a million of our most valuable
citizens, the little children, and tossed them into poverty."

Mr. Stark said the President would "go down in history for destroying over a
half-million children by pushing them into poverty" unless he did more to undo
the new welfare law. "We thought it was wrongheaded to begin with, when the
Republicans proposed it, and it was a sellout by the President to sign it," Mr.
Stark said.

Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights organization, said that such comments reflected the
liberals' "anger at the President's signing of the bill."

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Rules Enrage Russian Envoy in Seattle

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1041 words

DATELINE: SEATTLE, Feb. 22


The first Russian consul ever based in Seattle has so brimmed with post-cold-war
good will during his four years here that he has handed out, by his count, more
than 4,400 business cards.

In his 25-year diplomatic career, Georgy Vlaskin has never felt such affinity
toward the people where he was posted, he says, and he is proud to have helped
Russian trade with the State of Washington balloon from tens of millions of
dollars a year to hundreds of millions of dollars.

But these days, Mr. Vlaskin is using words reminiscent of the grim old era --
words like atrocity, harassment, inhumanity and xenophobia -- when he refers to
acts by the American authorities.

He is protesting United States immigration officials' treatment of Russian
sailors aboard ships in port here. The officials have restricted some Russian
sailors to their boats for weeks, temporarily confiscated passports and searched
the vessels.

In general, sailors on ships in port for repairs for more than 29 days are not
permitted to go ashore.

Immigration officials say they are only enforcing the law, which will soon
impose tougher penalties and extend their powers to detain and deport
foreigners. They say some sailors have jumped ship.

Mr. Vlaskin says his complaints are unrelated to recent Russian accusations that
the New York City police roughed up a diplomat and improperly ticketed the
Russian mission's cars. Yet the complaints have created another diplomatic
dispute over the treatment of Russians in the United States. And this one not
only has the potential of far broader repercussions, but has divided Americans
as well.

While many side with the Federal efforts to toughen border controls, some
business owners and officials in the state, which calls itself the most
dependent on international trade, side with the Russians.

"The trouble is, there are still a lot of people in Congress who want to build a
wall around the United States," said Ralph Munro, Washington's Secretary of
State. "And if they can't build it one way, they'll build it another, and
they're killing us. They have no idea what it's like to be out there trying to
build relationships."

Federal immigration officials here say they have met often with the Russian
consular officials to explain the rules they are following. But by the end of
last year, Mr. Vlaskin was so fed up that he filed a rare formal complaint with
the State Department. He has yet to receive a response, he said on Thursday.

Russ Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said that the agency had sent a response to Mr. Vlaskin's complaints
to Moscow through diplomatic channels. In it, he said, the agency demonstrated
that "the actions taken were appropriate, legal and within our jurisdiction."

Backing the immigration agency are also some American companies, like Marine
Business International, a Seattle concern now working on converting a boat for
Russian crew members who have been confined on board for two months now. "It's
no fun for anyone to live for that long restricted to a small vessel in the
middle of a beautiful American city, which they can see and never visit," said
David Britton, the company's manager. "But please do not misconstrue us -- our
problem is with the law, not those who enforce it."

Mr. Vlaskin recently set forth his position over tea served in a silver set at
the Russian Consulate, in an office building in downtown Seattle. "Local
authorities passed that tolerance level after which it was no longer possible
simply to swallow this," Mr. Vlaskin said.

Almost all of the incidents concerned the crews of ships that were in Seattle
for refurbishment -- a multimillion-dollar business here -- but Mr. Vlaskin's
complaints also fit into a broader problem that has frustrated Americans and
Russians trying to do business: Bureaucratic obstacles still abound, from
frequent difficulties getting United States visas for Russian colleagues to
monumental hassles for American exporters in Russian ports.

The rule that figured in most of Mr. Vlaskin's protests involved sailors on
ships in port for repairs that will take more than 29 days. They cannot leave
their vessels, even with valid 29-day American visas, said Irene Mortensen, a
spokeswoman for the regional immigration office here.

Some Russian sailors have been held aboard their ships -- a tantalizing,
impassable distance from shore -- almost from the moment they arrived. But crew
members aboard ships expected to need less than 29 days can come ashore in that
period, Ms. Mortensen said.

Some Russian ships' crews -- sometimes as many as 100 members -- had tried to
stay for as long as a year while their ships were being repaired, she said,
adding that some Russian crew members had also been involved in crime, including
smuggling and jumping ship to remain in this country.

The arguments from both sides descend quickly from there into the dark labyrinth
of United States rules for foreigners on entering and leaving the country. One
thing is clear: these types of arguments can be expected to proliferate after
April 1, when a new Federal law goes into effect imposing tougher penalties on
those who violate visa rules and giving immigration officials even more powers
to detain and deport them.

And one more thing is clear: for now, Russian seafarers like Viktor Panishev do
not seem to be going anywhere. A decorated captain from the Kamchatka Peninsula
with 35 years at sea, Mr. Panishev has been stuck on board his boat since he
flew in to help with repairs in late January. He is as restless and irritable as
the caged animal he feels like in his confinement, he said.

This is his first trip to the United States, Mr. Panishev said, and he is
spending it in what he feels is utter humiliation on board the Fierce Sea, an
American boat undergoing conversion for a crabbing venture being undertaken
jointly by American and Russian companies. The ship is expected to be ready to
go by the end of the month, at the earliest.

"We've been stuck here like slaves," he said, hunched over a table in the
no-frills hold of the boat. "What did I come for if it's only to sit here in
prison? How long can you sit? For God's sake, how long?"

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Russian consul in Seattle is protesting American immigration
officials' treatment of Russian sailors. Russians like those aboard the Fierce
Sea, are forbidden to go ashore while their ships are refurbished. (Larry Davis
for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 28, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
With Exquisite Cruelty

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 681 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


After Congress passed a restrictive immigration bill last fall and President
Clinton signed it into law, I had a letter from a New York lawyer, Stanley
Mailman.

"The law sets us back 100 years in its disrespect for due process," Mr. Mailman
wrote. "It is pitiless in barring relief to those who have transgressed the law
even in minor ways, including those with dependent U.S. families. Decades of
reasonable court decisions have been overturned in the effort to remove from
immigration judges the discretion to administer the immigration law with mercy.
Worse than the individual hardship is the sacrifice of the system of
adjudication that we depend on for fairness."

In recent weeks numbers of people have begun to understand what Mr. Mailman
described. The Justice Department has been aggressively urging courts to throw
out pending appeals of actions by the Immigration and Naturalization Service on
the ground that the new law strips courts of power to hear them.

One such case concerns a legal immigrant, Alfredo D., who has been in this
country 21 years. He has a disabled wife and four children, all U.S. citizens.
In 1994 he was found deportable because he had been convicted of carrying an
unlicensed gun. He sought relief from deportation.

An immigration judge said it was a sympathetic case, but he refused to grant
relief because Alfredo would not admit his guilt on the gun charge. His lawyers
appealed, arguing that his failure to admit guilt was not a valid reason to deny
relief. On the Government's motion, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit threw the case out as now beyond its power to review.

After April 1, the new law will remove entirely the historic discretion of the
immigration authorities to waive deportation of legal immigrants who have
committed one criminal offense if their spouses or children are citizens. The
crime can be a minor one, committed many years ago, that was not even a
deportable offense at the time. There will be no discretion for mercy, even in
the most pitiable case.

One of the cruelest sections of the new law strips courts of the power to review
the cases of people who arrive at our borders without proper papers and seek
asylum from persecution. It will have devastating effects on asylum applicants
like Fauziya Kassindja, the young woman who fled from Togo to escape genital
mutilation.

Ms. Kassindja's appeal for asylum was turned down at the border and by an
immigration judge. But a lawyer took the case to the Board of Immigration
Appeals, and she was granted asylum.

Under the new law someone like Ms. Kassindja would have a week to ask an
immigration judge for asylum -- probably by telephone, and without a lawyer. If
the judge said no, all appeals would be barred -- and she would be sent back
immediately to be mutilated.

Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas, wrote a letter to The New York
Times last fall denying that the legislation would bar judicial review in asylum
cases. But his own lawyer conceded to me that it would do just that when someone
like Ms. Kassindja arrived without proper documents. If Mr. Smith was really
unaware of that, he should file legislation now to remove the provision barring
judicial review.

President Clinton could help, too, by instructing the Justice Department to stop
pursuing every chance to intensify the law's worst features -- by arguing, for
example, that they are retroactive. The I.N.S. could be told to write
regulations that give asylum applicants and others fair notice of what they
face.

But it is probably too much to expect concern from the President who signed this
legislation. To return fairness to our immigration procedures we shall have to
have a President and Congressional leaders who care.

In a recent column I wrote incorrectly that The Wall Street Journal called for
the replacement of Robert Fiske as Independent Counsel after his report on
Vincent Foster. Though The Journal was highly critical of Mr. Fiske on other
matters, it said his conclusion that Mr. Foster committed suicide was
persuasive.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial DeskSection A;Page 34;Column
4;Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words



To the Editor:

Contrary to Anthony Lewis's Feb. 28 column criticizing the new immigration law,
only aliens who are "aggravated felons," those convicted of the most serious
crimes, are barred from seeking relief from deportation. They should not be
entitled to clog the Federal courts.

Also, those claiming asylum at the border must only establish a significant
possibility that their claim will ultimately be granted to gain access to the
full asylum process. That includes the right to review by a judge outside the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The overwhelming bipartisan vote in support of the new law speaks for itself.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Washington, Feb. 28, 1997

The writer is chairman of the House Immigration and Claims Subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 10, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Mr. Smith Tells A Tale

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 754 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


In the House of Commons, it is against the rules to say that another member has
told a lie. Winston Churchill once was called to order for using the forbidden
word. He withdrew it -- and substituted "terminological inexactitude."

Which brings us to the case of Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas,
a principal author of the immigration law enacted last year. In a recent letter
to the editor of The New York Times, Mr. Smith objected to a column of mine
about his law. The letter is a masterpiece of inexactitude.

One harsh provision of the new law, my column said, ends the historic discretion
of the Attorney General to waive deportation of a legal resident immigrant who
is deportable because he once committed a criminal offense. It also strips
courts of the right to review such cases. No mercy is allowed, even when the
crime was minor and the alien will have to abandon a spouse or children who are
citizens.

Of that, Mr. Smith wrote: "Only aliens who are 'aggravated felons,' those
convicted of the most serious crimes, are barred from seeking relief from
deportation. They should not be entitled to clog the Federal courts."

One would think, from Mr. Smith's statement, that the term "aggravated felons"
meant murderers, rapists and the like. In fact, the new immigration law includes
many minor, nonviolent crimes in the definition.

Receiving stolen property is an "aggravated felony," for example, if there is a
sentence of a year or more. Can anyone think that is one of "the most serious
crimes" facing the country? In its definition of aggravated felonies, Mr.
Smith's law is reminiscent of Humpty Dumpty: "When I use a word, it means just
what I choose it to mean -- neither more nor less."

Moreover, the new law also makes resident aliens deportable if they have twice
committed even less serious offenses for which the sentence could have been
(even if it was not) a year in jail. These are so-called "crimes of moral
turpitude," based on state law. They include shoplifting (New York),
unauthorized use of cable television (California) and malicious removal of a
landmark tree (Colorado).

For those minor offenses deportation can be waived, under strict conditions. But
again, judicial review is barred. If an official rules wrongly that a resident
alien must be torn from his citizen family because he cut down a tree in
Colorado, no court can save him.

The new law also requires "expedited" treatment of people who arrive at our
borders without proper papers seeking asylum from persecution, and it bars
judicial review in those cases. The column said this section would have
devastating effects on asylum applicants like Fauziya Kassindja, the young woman
who fled from Togo to escape genital mutilation.

Mr. Smith's letter seemed to deny those facts. It said such asylum applicants
would have "the right to review by a judge outside the Immigration and
Naturalization Service." The Kassindja case shows how much Mr. Smith's assurance
is worth.

Ms. Kassindja's story was not believed by immigration officers at the border, or
by an immigration judge. Only when a lawyer argued the case to the Board of
Immigration Appeals was she granted asylum.

Under the new law Ms. Kassindja would have a maximum of seven days to appeal to
an immigration judge, probably without a lawyer and by telephone. There would be
no further review by the Board of Immigration Appeals or by a court outside the
executive branch, which is what is meant by judicial review. Ms. Kassindja would
immediately be sent back to be mutilated.

Lamar Smith does not want to discuss what would happen to Fauziya Kassindja and
others like her under his new law. This is the second letter in which he has
avoided the issue. The reason must be that he really wants such asylum
applicants to be sent back to their fate -- but does not want to admit it.

There is a loose tendency to describe someone like Representative Smith as
"conservative." But it is not conservative, in the American tradition, to shield
administrators from being called to account in the courts. It is not
conservative to dismiss the right to appeal as "clogging the courts."

A genuine conservative, legal commentator Bruce Fein, wrote in The Washington
Times last fall that Mr. Smith's immigration bill was "unfaithful to the
nation's tradition of checks and balances." The provisions closing the courts to
appeals, he said, were "gratuitous assaults on a prized procedural safeguard
against oppression or inequity." Exactly.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 16, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IMMIGRANT STUDY FINDS MANY BELOW NEW INCOME LIMIT

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words


A new Federal analysis has found that an immigration law adopted last fall will
make it much more difficult for poor and working-class immigrants to bring
family members to the United States legally, especially Mexicans and
Salvadorans, whose incomes are generally lower than those of other immigrant
groups.

The law will require those seeking to bring relatives here to meet income
requirements and to make legally enforceable promises to support the newcomers.

Congressional sponsors of the legislation say their intent was not to impose
unfair burdens on immigrant families but simply to prevent them from becoming
dependent on public aid.

But advocates for immigrants say these restrictions were a backdoor way to slash
legal immigration in a year when Republicans in Congress failed to reduce
immigration levels directly. They say it will needlessly divide hard-working
husbands and wives from each other and their children.

The law, which is to go into effect later this year after regulations are
finalized, requires those sponsoring family members for admission to the United
States to make at least 125 percent of the poverty level, or $19,500 for a
family of four.

Under the old law, there was no income test for sponsors, just a requirement
that incoming immigrants show they would not need public aid. In deciding
whether to issue visas, consular officers at United States embassies overseas
could consider whether prospective immigrants had jobs waiting, marketable
skills, enough savings to support themselves or a sponsor.

Preliminary research, sponsored by the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service and based on a random survey of 2,160 statements signed
by sponsors of family immigrants in 1994, found that about 3 in 10 of those
sponsors had incomes below the new standard.

Another study conducted last year by the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research
group in Washington, reached similar conclusions. Its examination of 1993 Census
Bureau income data found that 40 percent of immigrant families in the United
States and 26 percent of Americans born in the United States would not make
enough to sponsor an immigrant under the new standard.

Federal immigration officials refused to discuss their new research, which had
not yet been released, or to say whether the preliminary findings had changed.

But several people familiar with the research -- three who opposed the new law
and two who favored it -- described the findings on condition that their names
not be used.

Based on the survey of statements signed by sponsors, immigration officials
estimated that roughly half of the Mexicans and Salvadorans, one-third of the
Dominicans and Koreans, one-fourth of the Chinese and Jamaicans and one-fifth of
the Filipinos, Indians and Vietnamese would not have met the new income
requirements.

One opponent of the new laws who spoke on condition of anonymity said the study
showed that half of the legal permanent residents and about 3 in 10 of the
citizens who sponsored their wives in 1994 would not have met the income
standard.

The cases surveyed included both immigrants seeking to join their families here
and those already in the United States, who may have entered on student visas or
illegally, trying to become legal permanent residents.

In 1994, 461,725 immigrants came to the United States to join their families
here, according to Federal statistics. Demographers with the New York City
Planning Department estimate that about 1 in 6 of those immigrants came to the
city.

But the new research comes with these cautions: the income reported on each
statement was not verified, and the size of the families and the incomes they
would need to meet the new standard were difficult to determine in a substantial
portion of the cases.

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who is chairman of the House
Immigration Subcommittee and a sponsor of the law, said in a statement on Friday
that he had been advised that the methodology of the immigration service's
research was "fatally flawed."

New studies of the impact of last year's immigration law are being scrutinized
because the issue of immigration is so politically charged and because legal
changes so often have unanticipated consequences.

Complicating this debate is the disagreement among experts about just how much
legal immigrants rely on public assistance. The Urban Institute says that 94
percent of immigrants do not receive welfare. George J. Borjas, a professor of
public policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University,
using a broader definition of welfare benefits, says that 21 percent of all
immigrant households receive some type of public assistance, compared with 14
percent of native households.

Even with the data on the income requirements, it is difficult to predict
exactly what impact the new law will have on immigration levels. For one thing,
people who cannot immigrate legally may come anyway.

"The perverse effect of the law will be to encourage illegal immigration," said
Cecilia Munoz, a deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
nonprofit Hispanic civil rights organization. "The ties between families are
probably stronger than our laws."

All immigrants seeking to join their families will need a sponsor when the law
takes effect; the old law did not require a sponsor for those who convinced
officials that they could support themselves. About one-quarter of the
immigrants who joined their families in 1994 had no sponsor, according to the
new research, and it is not possible to determine how they would have fared
under the new law.

In addition, under the new law, sponsors who do not meet the new income
standards will be allowed to recruit a friend or other relative who does earn
enough to sign a statement in their stead, promising to support the new
immigrant if necessary.

That may enable more people to bring in relatives, although another provision of
the law is already discouraging some close family members, not to mention
friends, from signing such legally binding statements, immigration lawyers say.

In the past, such promises have generally been found unenforceable in the
courts, but the new law specifically empowers Federal, state and local
governments to sue sponsors of immigrants who wind up on public assistance. It
also allows immigrants to sue their sponsors for support. The sponsor is
responsible until the immigrant becomes a citizen or has been working and paying
taxes for 10 years.

Ana C. Zigal, an immigration lawyer in Baltimore, said she represents a young
college student married to an illegal Mexican immigrant who installs
air-conditioners for a living. The student, who works as a sales clerk in a
department store, does not make enough to sponsor her husband, and her father is
"very scared" about signing a statement promising to support his son-in-law if
necessary, Ms. Zigal said.

"What if that kid has a car accident that leaves him a paraplegic?" Ms. Zigal
said. "The father is weighing his daughter's happiness against these future
unknowns."

The new requirements continue to stir debate about the purpose of immigration to
the United States. Groups that favor more restrictive policies, like the
Federation for American Immigration Reform, contend the law will help keep out
those who cannot support themselves.

"We don't need to import a poverty class into this country," John L. Martin,
special projects director at the federation, said.

But advocates for immigrants say the new law runs counter to America's
commitment to encouraging immigrants to reconstruct their close families here.

"The new law will mean that literally thousands of U.S. citizens and lawful
permanent residents won't be able to reunite with their spouses, children and
other family members," said Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the
American Immigration Lawyers Association.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph shows percentage of families who would not have earned enough to
sponsor an immigrant, based on 1993 income data provided by the Census Bureau.
(Source: The Urban Institute)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 16, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Citizenship Wars

BYLINE: By KIT R. ROANE

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2798 words

DATELINE: BLOOMFIELD


IN the seven years since Noel Gaynor left a prison in Northern Ireland and
arrived in the United States, he has married his long-time American sweetheart,
begun to raise a family and supported them by fashioning everything from wood
harps to shingle roofs. On weekends, he has coached junior soccer, and on St.
Patrick's Day he has marched in the parade.

But Mr. Gaynor's new life continues to be haunted by his old one as a member of
the Irish Republican Army, by the politics of terrorism and the law. Once a
target of the British court system, which deals harshly and sometimes summarily
with those fighting British rule in Northern Ireland, he has now become a target
of American immigration officials. The United States wants to deport him, and
the newest laws on the books make it increasingly likely that it can do so, no
matter how exemplary a life he has been living.

That life has made Noel Gaynor a rallying point for Federal lawmakers and others
who want to help a potential citizen, as well as those who see his case as a way
to take issue with bureaucracy gone too far.

Like Mr. Gaynor, at least six other former I.R.A. members across the United
States are also facing deportation because they checked "no" in a box on their
original visa application that asked if they had ever comitted a crime. (They
believe they have not.) Seven Palestinians and a Kenyan, known as the L.A.
Eight, face deportation for similar reasons and because immigration officials
argue that their support of such groups as the Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine -- which has carried out terrorism -- makes them terrorists
themselves.

But these are just the best known of a group that also includes thousands of
legal immigrants who were once arrested here or overseas for crimes that range
from possession of drugs to shoplifting. All face imminent deportation under the
new laws.

Many are already involved in a struggle that Mr. Gaynor has been fighting since
the day he applied for a visa in 1990, telling immigration officials about his
I.R.A. past and the reason he felt he had committed no crime. Since then, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service has done everything in its power to make
the 43-year-old immigrant's stay precarious, from questioning his friends and
family to arresting him at his job, from ordering a series of deportation
hearings to saying he has no legal right to be heard.

At issue are Mr. Gaynor's two-decade-old conviction for his part in the 1973
I.R.A. assassination of a Protestant policeman, and a difference of
interpretation over whether his role with the I.R.A. makes him a terrorist or a
freedom fighter.

But in the wake of tough new immigration statutes passed last year, particularly
those rushed through under the guise of anti-terrorism measures, people like Mr.
Gaynor have found little ability to plead their case before an immigration judge
and little hope of having it reviewed in the Federal courts.

His supporters include not only hundreds of citizens and friends, but also
Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey, and six New Jersey House
members. After all, they say, he is a family man who pays his taxes and
contributes to his community, and the crime happened long ago. The trial, they
add, took place in one of the country's notorious Diplock courts, established 25
years ago to deal quickly ( no jury, restrictions on presentation of evidence)
with crimes arising from the eruption of violence in Ulster.

His supporters also say the crime was not murder, but an act of political
violence during what many consider a war. Or, as his Congressman, Representative
William J. Pascrell Jr., a Democrat, put it while leading Mr. Gaynor to the
speakers' platform during a St. Patrick's Day parade in Newark last Sunday: "He
was a freedom fighter, and he deserves every break in the book. This is not what
we intended when we passed the law."


The Arduous Task Of Making a Case

Even before the immigration laws changed last fall, many like Mr. Gaynor faced
or could expect to face an arduous task in explaining the subtleties of their
case to an immigration judge. Some would have had to show that their foreign
convictions took place in courts that bore little resemblance to those in
America, without a jury, and where secret evidence was presented to the judge
but not to the defense lawyer, where confessions were coerced or taken down
before the defendants were granted a lawyer. Others would have to argue that
their support of unsympathetic causes did not make them terrorists. But under
the new law, judges have less leeway in making individual determinations, and
the Attorney General would no longer have the right to waive deportation in
cases of "aggravated felony," a category that now includes many nonviolent drug
and theft offenses where the sentence is a year or more.

Aliens committing some less serious offenses, known as crimes of moral
turpitude, could also be deported by immigration officials even if no jail time
was served. Based on state laws, these crimes would include, for example,
shoplifting or jumping subway turnstiles. Neither crime category permits
judicial review of a deportation order. (Immigration courts are a part of the
executive branch of government, not the judiciary.)

This is also the case for any alien who arrives seeking asylum from persecution
without the correct paperwork.

"The avenues for relief have been severely curtailed or completely eliminated,
while the grounds for deportation have been greatly expanded," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the National Immigrant's Rights Project of the American
Civil Liberties Union. "The new immigration laws are harsh and unrelenting and
contrary to nearly 100 years of American history."

That is not the view of the I.N.S., which sees the new law as a way to enforce
respect of a citizenship process long abused by many foreigners, including Mr.
Gaynor. In his case, the agency has argued that nothing matters but his foreign
conviction and his failure to note it as a crime on his tourist visa in 1990.

"We expect individuals to answer questions truthfully,"said Russell A Bergeron,
a spokesman for the agency. "The determination of whether that conviction is a
crime or an act of political opposition is a determination for the U.S.
Government, not the individual filing the application.

"We think these laws will have a significant impact on removing them from the
U.S. and put credibility back into immigration enforcement," he said.

Hero or terrorist? Mr. Gaynor resembles neither. Instead, he looks very much
like the union laborer he is, a compact man with thick, coarse hands. His speaks
a brand of nonviolent Irish nationalism, levened by references to his wife and
two small girls, and memories of a peaceful childhood in the flat industrial
town of Lurgan, near Belfast.

It was in the cramped Catholic neighborhoods of his youth that he first saw the
destruction that could be wrought throwing rocks and stones, gunfire or bombs.
But it did not begin that way.

Many of his earliest friends, he said, were Protestants from the other side of
town. They were on the same football teams; they fished in the same mingling of
rivers and took the dogs out to hunt rats at the same local dump. Their ghettos
were often separate, but their interests were the same.

"No one asked you what religion you were because you were all young," he said.
"You played soccer. You didn't get into politics. That was for the adults."

In fact, Northern Ireland had been in relative peace since 1921, when the
British separated the troublesome mix of Roman Catholics and Protestants in
Ireland's six northern counties from the predominantly Catholic south, making
the latter a free state while continuing to tether the north. Catholics in
Northern Ireland never ceased to complain about jury-rigged elections that
denied Catholics without property the right to vote and gave Protestants near
complete government control. They also continued to grumble about the
discrimination they encountered in the search for jobs and housing.

Violence did not break out in earnest again until the late 1960's, when
Catholics in Northern Ireland took a cue from the civil rights movement in
America and started their own peaceful demonstrations at home, demanding more of
a say in politics and a stake in the economy. Many also began to call for
self-rule and unification with the south.

In turn, Protestants demonstrated in support of the status quo and the country's
strong ties to Britain. Sectarian violence finally erupted in 1968, when bands
of thugs on both sides began to burn out, beat and kill their "wrong-sided"
neighbors.

This was the rebirth of several paramilitary forces, including the I.R.A. and
the Protestant-led Ulster Volunteer Force. It also marked the return of the
British Army after more than 40 years of furlough.

Mr. Gaynor joined the I.R.A. around 1972, near his 18th birthday. He had already
become an expert at throwing rocks and bottles at the British soldiers who
swarmed about his neighborhood shooting tear gas into crowds and deflecting
protest with rubber bullets. And he slowly fell in with a radical element.

But the defining moment came about two years earlier, on the night when his
house was searched by British soldiers -- a common occurrence in Northern
Ireland in the early 1970's. Mr. Gaynor said the British, apparently believing
that either he or his father had been helping the I.R.A., stormed into the
family home and dragged his father out of bed. As he resisted, one soldier
struck the 61-year-old man across the head with a rifle butt. The soldiers
searched the apartment, ripping up floorboards and tearing the cabinets off the
wall, Mr. Gaynor said.

"This was when I decided," Mr. Gaynor said. "I was about 15 years old, and there
was my father, a milkman, beaten and afraid on the floor."

Mr. Gaynor's father tried to get his three sons to leave Ireland for America or
Australia. Only one did at the time, and it wasn't Mr. Gaynor. He would be drawn
increasingly into the fight.

"It wasn't immediate, like some guy walked up to you as you threw stones and
said, 'Hey, you look like a good I.R.A. man.' It was gradual. From playing
football with my friends to marching in the peace rallies, I went to throwing
bottles and stones at the British," Mr. Gaynor said. "But people couldn't
protect their areas from the British forces and the Protestant gangs, so someone
stepped in and promised to do it. For the Catholics, it was the I.R.A."

In, 1977, a special anti-terrorism court convicted Mr. Gaynor of murder and
sentenced him to life in prison for his part in an I.R.A. attack four years
earlier. The office of the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland said Mr.
Gaynor was one of several spotters assigned to a section of Lurgan to point out
potential security-force targets to two I.R.A. gunmen in a nearby house. One
target, a two-man police patrol, was attacked. Two bullets hit one of the
officers, who died within the hour.

(Northern Ireland's police force is overwhelmingly Protestant. Besides working
closely with the British Army, its members have been cited for providing
intelligence files to Protestant paramilitary units, which then used them to
find and kill Catholics. Because of this tie to the British military, Mr.
Gaynor's immigration lawyers can still argue that the conviction was of a purely
political nature.)

Mr. Gaynor was arrested three years after the attack. A confession he gave was
coerced by beatings, he said. After his his conviction, sent to Longkesh Prison.


First Pen Pals, Then Married Life

 Colleen Connelly, an Irish-American from New York, began writing to Mr. Gaynor
as a lark on Christmas Day 1987.

Hundreds of letters followed, leading up to a prison visit in January 1989 that
sealed their attraction.

"When I left, he told me that we should each immediately write letters so that
they will cross in the mail," Mrs. Gaynor said. "He said we could then be honest
about how we felt. I was already on cloud nine."

When Mr. Gaynor was granted an early release in June that year, she returned to
Northern Ireland twice to be with him during his parole. He said they considered
staying in his hometown of Lurgan, but that British soldiers helped him change
his mind during an impromptu visit.

"They said that if I thought 14 years was enough time, that I was mistaken," he
said, adding that retaliation by soldiers and Protestant militants is still
common in Northern Ireland, an assertion that is backed up by news reports
detailing killings of both former I.R.A. members and their families.

"I figured that while I was maybe a legitimate target because of my past, I
couldn't put Colleen in that kind of danger," he said. A year later, he flew to
New York on a tourist visa, and on March 25, 1990, the couple married. The
attempt to get a green card began.

When they started immigration proceedings, based on his marriage and his fear of
persecution in Northern Ireland, they told I.N.S. officials about Mr. Gaynor's
conviction and the reason he did not consider it a felony, Mr. Gaynor said.

While the I.N.S. considered their argument, Mr. Gaynor was granted a temporary
work permit. It was renewed without incident until February 1993, when I.N.S.
agents arrived at Mr. Gaynor's job at a lumber mill near their first home in
Olean, N.Y., and arrested him, saying that he did not have the right to apply
for asylum.

Mr. Gaynor's father-in-law put up the $50,000 bail -- his life savings -- and
the fight was on. During this period, the Gaynors moved several times, at first
to put a distance between them and the embarrassment of Mr. Gaynor's arrest and
then to find a town they thought would give them a nice home and provide a good
education for their two children, Sinead and Brady.

Two years ago, they settled in Bloomfield, where neighbors and friends set up a
fund to help the family pay for their legal fight and members of Congress in the
state began to take an interest in their case.

Things looked good until Nov. 6, shortly after President Clinton signed into law
several changes in the immigration code. On that day Immigration Judge Walter A.
Durling in Buffalo interpreted one of these changes as denying Mr. Gaynor the
right to argue his petition for asylum before the court.

"The judge's decision, based upon the amendment to the law, cut us off at the
knees," said James P. Harrington, one of Mr. Gaynor's lawyers. "We were never
allowed to present our case on the merits of Mr. Gaynor's political asylum
application. We were told that we couldn't bring this up, that he is not
eligible for any form of relief."

Although lawyers for Mr. Gaynor and the other Irishmen facing deportation say
they will appeal any such decisions to the Board of Immigration Appeals, the new
amendments make their cases harder to win.

"If he loses before the board of appeals, then the I.N.S. will say that under
the new law he has no right to a hearing before the Federal courts," said Dan
Kesselbrenner, the director of the National Immigration Project for the National
Lawyers Guild. "That is the potential danger for many immigrants with strong
issues."

He said the Gaynor case illustrates how shortsighted Congress was. The
revisions, he noted, were proposed after what at first appeared to be a foreign
terrorist attack in Oklahoma City, after many Government officials blamed needy
non-citizens for dwindling resorces and when the I.N.S. was complaining about an
estimated 5 million illegal aliens swamping the borders and clogging the courts.

"This was sound-bite legislation," Mr. Kesselbrenner said. The best hope now for
immigrants like Mr. Gaynor is the introduction of legislation to revise the
rules by some of the same lawmakers who supported the original bills. Many who
have become involved in the Gaynor case say they are planning just that. Some,
like the 62 members forming the Congressional Ad Hoc Committee for Irish
Affairs, have pleaded with President Clinton to intercede on behalf of the Irish
facing deportation.

"This is a situation where the Government has just not thought clearly," Senator
Torricelli said. "Noel Gaynor has paid his debt to society and has built a
constructive life in America. There is nothing to be gained from both breaking
up his young family and putting him in personal danger."

Representative Robert Menendez, Democrat of Union City, said: "We are looking at
ways to amend the law. Congress got swept up in the moment and was concerned
about problems of real terrorism and things, but this goes beyond our intent."

He added: "We don't want to undermine the very purpose of the immigration laws
and our system of justice to do so."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Noel Gaynor, the younger of the two children upper left, joined
the I.R.A. in the early 70's and was imprisoned for murder in 1977. Far right,
he and his family outside the Federal building in Newark. (Dith Pran/The New
York Times)(pg. 1); St. Patrick's Day parades, like last week's in Newark, have
been part of Noel Gaynor's life here since he arrived seven years ago. Below, at
home in Bloomfield with his wife, Colleen, and daughters, Sinead, 6, and Brady,
3. The couple, married for seven years, began their relationship as pen pals
while Mr. Gaynor was in prison. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 12)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Plays Word Games on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 110 words



To the Editor:

The chaotic scene at New York City marriage bureaus as April 1 nears, when
tougher immigration laws go into effect, illustrates the need for a dramatic
overhaul of immigration policy (news article, March 9).

Foreigners who obeyed visa regulations and led productive lives face unfair
benefit cutoffs. Yet the rising tide of new arrivals, overwhelming our ability
to provide decent schools, jobs and housing, guarantees more restrictions in the
future.

It should be obvious that current levels of immigration cannot be maintained
without sharpening the divide between haves and havenots.

DAVID STOLL
New York, March 10, 1997

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Plays Word Games on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 167 words



To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis's March 10 column hits the mark: Congress has played word games in
the new immigration law. The provision that ends the discretion of the Attorney
General to waive deportation of legal resident immigrants who are "aggravated
felons" includes first-time offenders who may have received no prison time at
all. These people will be deported even if they have lived in this country since
they were 2 years old, have dependent citizen children, good job records or
other compelling equities.

The Clinton Administration is applying this law to immigrants who pleaded guilty
before the law was changed to create these cruel consequences. A country that
prides itself on the rule of law should be ashamed of a Kafkaesque system that
encourages pleas for minor offenses and then uses those pleas to banish parents
from their spouses, children and livelihoods.

NANCY MORAWETZ
New York, March 11, 1997

The writer is a law professor at New York University.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Grinding Into Dust

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


If you have tears, prepare to shed them. Not so much for the subject of the
story that follows as for the humane tradition in our law, which is being sapped
by Congress and the Attorney General.

Engin Yesil is a native of Turkey who came to the United States as a student in
1979. He married an American and in 1988 was granted lawful permanent residence.
He lives in New York and has run a contact lens business.

In 1990 Mr. Yesil pleaded guilty to aiding the distribution of cocaine and was
sentenced to six years in prison. After being sentenced -- not as part of a plea
bargain -- he infiltrated a drug organization and, Federal authorities said,
helped bring about "many arrests and multi-kilogram drug confiscations." The
U.S. Attorney in charge of his case praised his "significant cooperation," and a
judge said he had acted "at great risk to his life."

The drug conviction made Mr. Yesil subject to deportation. He asked for a waiver
under a provision of law allowing the Attorney General to show mercy when there
are ameliorating circumstances.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service found that he was ineligible for a
waiver because, under technical rules of counting, he had not been a permanent
resident long enough. The decision conflicted with a long-established
interpretation of the law by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit,
covering New York, so Mr. Yesil's lawyers petitioned for review there.

But in the anti-terrorism law enacted last year, and again in its immigration
law, Congress provided that orders of deportation against people like Mr. Yesil,
whether legally right or wrong, "shall not be subject to review by any court."
The Second Circuit dismissed his petition.

Mr. Yesil's lawyers then sought habeas corpus in Federal District Court in New
York. Habeas corpus is an ancient writ that tests the lawfulness of anyone's
detention. The Constitution gives it special status, saying that the writ "shall
not be suspended unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety
may require it." But the Justice Department argued that Congress had, lawfully,
barred its use in these deportation cases.

Last month Federal District Judge Denny Chin held that Mr. Yesil could test the
legality of the I.N.S. decision by habeas corpus. He found that under the
established law of the Second Circuit Mr. Yesil was eligible to apply for waiver
of deportation. In his opinion, Judge Chin remarked on the "inexplicable fervor"
with which the Justice Department had tried to deny Mr. Yesil "any opportunity
for judicial review."

Happy ending? No. For the Government is now trying to invoke against Mr. Yesil
provisions of the new anti-terrorism and immigration laws that wipe out the
whole idea of waiver -- of mercy -- for those under orders of deportation.

That raises another question: Do the new laws apply retroactively, to people who
were in the process of qualifying for waivers of deportation when Congress
passed the new law? The Board of Immigration Appeals decided last year that they
do not.

But Attorney General Janet Reno, in a rare action, overruled that decision. In
an opinion issued last month, she ruled that the new bar to waiver of
deportation must be applied to all previously pending cases.

The usual principle in American law is that people's rights are not wiped out
retroactively unless Congress says to do so, which it did not say here. Attorney
General Reno was unmoved by that principle, or for that matter by the human
facts. One finds in her opinion no hint of understanding that what is at stake
in taking a man from his family and home is, as Justice Brandeis said, "all that
makes life worth living."

The new immigration provisions, extraordinary in their harshness, were pushed
through Congress by people who do not like immigrants and want to punish them.
But why is Janet Reno so relentless? My guess is that she wants to look tough
these days -- but does not know the difference between being tough and being
mean.

The Immigration Service is not an agency so respected that we want it to operate
without any legal check. But Attorney General Reno's fervor is more dangerous
than that. Never before in peacetime has our Government tried to eliminate
habeas corpus, leaving people with no way to check official abuse. The next time
it may not be an immigrant. It may be you.

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Fearing Deportation, Immigrants Try to Beat a Deadline That Isn't

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1193 words


At 3 A.M. yesterday, hundreds of apprehensive immigrants huddled in the darkness
outside the Federal Building in lower Manhattan, a hulking monolith that houses
offices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Like thousands of others who lined up this week, they had come amid growing
anxiety over a new Federal law's provisions that take effect April 1 and that
many of them believe -- wrongly, officials said yesterday -- could lead the
Government to deport them or their family members.

Many had only the vaguest sense of what the new law means, but they had heard
through the grapevine that they needed to apply to legalize their own or their
relatives' immigration status by April 1.

Scores of people slept wrapped in blankets on the ground of the concrete plaza.
Snores punctuated the nighttime quiet.

"I'm here because they are giving the deadline of April 1," said Wilbur
Hernandez, who said he was applying on behalf of his 62-year-old mother, a
Nicaraguan who is in the United States illegally.

Mr. Hernandez, who works at a clothing store in the Bronx, had taken time off
from his job to wait in line for three days. He said he had not slept in 72
hours. "If nobody puts the papers in before April 1st, they'll be deported," he
said.

The throngs of immigrants outside the Federal Building reflect the widespread
uncertainty about what the complex and far-reaching new immigration law will do.

Paul Virtue, the Federal immigration official in charge of putting the new law
into effect, said yesterday that the rush to act before April 1 is based on a
misunderstanding. There is simply no advantage to applying before April 1, he
said. The real deadline is Sept. 30, and it is possible that Congress will
extend it.

"Some people are confused," said Mr. Virtue, acting executive associate
commissioner at the immigration service in Washington.

That, it seems, is an understatement. Immigration officials, no less than
immigrants, do not yet have a full grasp of the new law. Mark Thorn, a spokesman
for the New York office of the immigration service, said yesterday that he still
could not explain how laws that take effect in less than two weeks will work. He
said he is scheduled to get his training on March 31, the day before some parts
take effect.

Two weeks ago, the immigration service trained 300 people in the intricacies of
the new law over several days at the service's training academy in Glynco, Ga.
They and others are now trying to transmit what they learned to the vast
immigration officialdom, as well as to myriad immigrant communities speaking
dozens of languages.

The rush to apply for legal status appears to have hit some cities and missed
others.

An I.N.S. spokesman in Los Angeles said the lines were no longer than usual,
while Lynn Ligon, the spokesman in Dallas, said the line of anxious immigrants
has stretched around the building every weekday for the last week when he
arrives at the office before 5 A.M.

"Yes, indeed," Mr. Ligon said. "And, of course, we have no increase of personnel
to handle this. The only thing I've increased is my intake of Excedrin."

Immigration officials say that unfounded concern among immigrants is so great in
San Jose, Calif., for example, that the agency plans a radio campaign to spread
the word that nothing will change on April 1.

The main confusion appears to be over a provision of the law that affects people
who remain in the United States illegally.

Under the new law, a clock starts ticking on April 1. Those who remain illegally
for six months or more will be barred from re-entering the United States for
three years if they leave the United States or if they are deported. Those who
stay illegally for a year or more can be barred for 10 years.

Immigrants who remain in the United States will not be affected by that part of
the law, Mr. Virtue said.

Legal immigrants and citizens who want to sponsor a family member who is in the
United States illegally will still be able to, as long as they pay a $1,000 fine
and file the application by Sept. 30, Mr. Virtue said.

The program that allows the immigrants to live in the United States while their
applications for a new legal status are pending will lapse on Sept. 30 unless
Congress acts to extend it. The Clinton Administration has asked Congress to do
that.

In interviews yesterday, immigration lawyers and officials gave a bewildering
variety of interpretations of what the law means.

"It's a situation of complete and utter chaos and confusion among immigrant
communities, immigration lawyers who don't know what advice to give, and among
the I.N.S. personnel who have to administer the law," said Jeanne A.
Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association
in Washington.

Many people who have been waiting in line for days at the Federal building in
Manhattan complained bitterly that not a single immigration official had come
out to explain the new law or hear their concerns.

"I waited four days in a row and then they said, 'We can't help you,' " said Bob
Tolsiman, 40, a Haitian immigrant who lives in Brooklyn. "They wouldn't give me
a ticket for tomorrow. They just said they're finished. I'll have to come back
tonight and sleep over."

Mercy Luna Victoria, 20, from Ecuador, who was seeking the right to work
legally, had slept for three nights at Federal Plaza and still had not got in to
see an immigration officer.

"Why are they against the immigrants?" she said. "If we are the ones who work
the hardest, why is there so much abuse? I don't know. I don't know."

Those who had waited all night to get in yesterday and failed lined up again to
wait until this morning. A woman who identified herself only as Akilah M., 40, a
citizen and a landlord, was there to apply to sponsor her husband, a Trinidadian
in the United States illegally. She said she was afraid of immigration
authorities and declined to give her full name.

She had heard, inaccurately, that unless she applied on his behalf by April, 1,
her husband would have to go back to Trinidad, leaving their 5-year-old daughter
and 8-year-old son in the United States, to wait for his legal status to be
resolved.

"When he goes out, the children cry," she said. "There are so many rules and so
many different changes, you don't know what to believe."

Last night, trying to ease the frustration of the waiting immigrants, officials
began handing out a statement checked by Mr. Virtue that tried to clarify the
law.

It advised people seeking to change their own legal status or that of relatives
that they will not be allowed to apply in person, but will have to send in their
applications.  "Filing prior to April 1 provides no advantage to the applicant
under changes in the immigration law which became effective April 1, 1997," the
statement said.

Immigrants may call (800) 870-3676 to obtain forms. They may call these numbers
for information about their claims: (212) 206-6500 or (800) 375-5283.

Officials warned that lines may be busy. "We ask their patience," said Eric
Andrus, a spokesman for the service. "Our lines are experiencing an
unprecedented volume."

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: At 4 A.M. yesterday, immigrants in line to apply for green
cards, above, had been waiting about 12 hours in front of the Jacob K. Javits
Federal Building in Manhattan. Later yesterday, the applicants, below,
overwhelmed the tent that immigration officials had set up to shelter those who
had to wait in the cold. (Photographs by Frances Roberts for The New York
Times)(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Law Addressed Abuses of Criminal Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 314 words



To the Editor:

As chairman of the Senate immigration subcommittee, I take issue with Anthony
Lewis's March 17 column criticizing provisions that were contained in the
landmark immigration reform legislation enacted last year. It is true that the
legislation restricts the Attorney General's authority to waive deportation for
criminal immigrants who commit serious crimes while in this country, like the
convicted drug trafficker Mr. Lewis profiles.

It also curtails judicial review of deportation orders against them.

All of this was not done out of any effort to be, as Mr. Lewis puts it, "mean"
to any and all immigrants, but to address longstanding abuses of our legal and
immigration systems by criminal immigrants.

Criminal immigrants demonstrated time and again an ability to delay deportations
through administrative appeals, judicial review and habeas corpus petitions.

Since discretionary waivers are based in part on the hardship that would result
should the criminal immigrant be deported, criminal immigrants were able to
increase that hardship by delaying deportations almost endlessly. Many would
argue that they should get a waiver of deportation because having spent so much
time in the United States, it would be even more difficult for them to leave.

Mr. Lewis is wrong when he writes that "the new immigration provisions,
extraordinary in their harshness, were pushed through Congress by people who do
not like immigrants and want to punish them."

In the last Congress, I fought to defend the interests of legal immigrants. At
the same time, I encouraged the enactment of tough anti-criminal immigrant
provisions to crack down on those who come to the United States and abuse our
legal system at considerable cost to tax-paying citizens and legal immigrants
alike.

SPENCER ABRAHAM
U.S. Senator from Michigan
Washington, March 19, 1997

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Forgive No Trespasses

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words


In a time of anti-immigrant politics Senator Spencer Abraham, Republican of
Michigan, is one politician who understands the contribution of immigrants to
this country. He played a large part last year in stopping efforts in Congress
to make sharp reductions in legal immigration.

In a letter published in The New York Times last week Senator Abraham defended
the 1996 immigration law against charges of harshness in its deportation
provision. The letter requires respectful consideration. What it shows, I think,
is that in today's climate even someone as sensitive as Senator Abraham can be
swept along to try to justify the merciless.

Our law long allowed the Attorney General to waive deportation of a legal
resident alien who was deportable because he had committed a crime. To be
eligible, the alien had to show that he had family ties here, had lived in this
country a long time and had been rehabilitated.

Last year's law changed all that. Senator Abraham put it that the legislation
"restricts" -- actually it eliminates -- "the Attorney General's authority to
waive deportation for criminal immigrants who commit serious crimes while in
this country."

Senator Abraham used the phrase "criminal immigrants" five times in his letter.
That sounds as though it meant murderers, organized crime leaders and the like.
But it is not limited to the worst offenders: far from it.

The new immigration law requires the deportation, without hope of mercy, of
lawful resident aliens who have committed an "aggravated felony." That term is
defined to include many offenses that are hardly grave crimes.

* Selling a single marijuana cigarette in New York, where that is a minor crime,
is an "aggravated felony" under the new law. The law includes in that category
any conviction for selling drugs, even if it is a first offense and no prison
sentence is imposed.

* Theft is another "aggravated felony." That includes receipt of stolen goods
and other nonviolent offenses, if the offender was sentenced to at least a year
in prison.

It is hard to believe that Senator Abraham was aware of how far down the scale
of crimes the new law goes when he said it would only affect those who committed
"serious crimes." Would he really want to deport an otherwise honorable man, who
has lived in this country for 20 years and has a citizen wife and children,
because he once sold one marijuana cigarette?

There is another question. Senator Abraham said that criminal immigrants had
abused the system for obtaining waivers of deportation. No doubt some have. But
does it follow that we should forbid mercy not only for the vicious criminal who
abuses the law but for the person who made a mistake long ago and has earned
respect since then? Have we given up all thought of rehabilitation?

What Senator Abraham seems to be saying is that we cannot trust the legal system
to tell the deserving from the undeserving, so we must forgive no trespasses at
all. That is a sad view to take in a civilized society. And I do not think he
would take it if he looked hard at some of the human realities.

I had a letter the other day from a woman in New Jersey whose husband had been
deported for committing a drug offense. He was undoubtedly deportable, as I
understand the facts. But still the way it was done made me wonder about ends
and means.

Her husband was brought to this country 38 years ago, at the age of 12. They
have been married for 26 years. She is an American citizen, as are their three
boys. After his jail term he was held for deportation, then freed on bail while
he appealed. When he lost the appeal, he was not told to report; one day when he
walked out of his home, immigration agents grabbed him and took him away without
a chance to say goodbye to his family.

"Believe it or not," his wife wrote me, "we are just like the people next door.
Our oldest just became engaged, the middle boy is in law school, the youngest
plays football in high school and works in a pizzeria. I work full time and try
to hold it all together. Just plain, ordinary people. People whose family has
been torn apart."

In deportation as in asylum policy, it is possible for immigration law to be
firm without being merciless.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 1, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Holds Up New Immigration Law for 4 Days

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 349 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 31


Regulations to enforce a far-reaching new immigration law were delayed today by
a Federal judge until Saturday, although the law itself will go into place on
Tuesday as scheduled.

The Justice Department had argued that a law with no regulations would produce
mass confusion.

But Judge Emmet G. Sullivan of Federal District Court here said he doubted that
a four-day gap would cause much difficulty.

Judge Sullivan said he was delaying the regulations because the Government
failed to notify the public of the new rules 30 days in advance, as
administrative law requires.

The Justice Department published the rules in the Federal Register on March 6,
just 26 days before the April 1 effective date. The department argued that the
rules were available to the public on Feb. 28, when Attorney General Janet Reno
approved them.

"I think more is required," Judge Sullivan said. "Promulgation of regulations
means publication so that the public can be educated."

The American Civil Liberties Union and the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
filed the challenge on behalf of four immigrant-rights organizations. Lawyers
said they were now prepared to file a substantive challenge to the regulations.
The court set another hearing for Tuesday to hear that complaint.

In court arguments, the Government warned that without regulations, employees
and immigrants would not know what the rules were.

"It's going to be sheer chaos," said Linda Wendtland, a Justice Department
lawyer.

Ms. Wendtland said that computers were programmed to accept only new forms
beginning on Tuesday and that 24,000 immigration agents had been trained to use
the new regulations and would not know what to do without them.

Lawyers for the immigrant groups were not sympathetic.

"There may be chaos, but it's of their own making," said Robert Rubin, a San
Francisco lawyer with the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights.

The new law makes it easier to deport illegal immigrants and to turn away
certain people looking to enter the United States. The rules streamline the
deportation and removal processes.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 4, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Hard Times for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 544 words


Most of the recent criticism of America's immigration policy has focused on the
new welfare reform law's mean-spirited limits on public assistance for legal
immigrants. But the broad immigration bill that took effect this week may turn
out to be a graver threat. The law strips even legal residents of the right to
go to court to challenge decisions on deportation by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. It also attempts to remove most judicial checks on the
I.N.S., an agency with a record of mismanagement, discrimination and brutality.

The law, passed last fall, was an attempt to keep immigrants from using lengthy
court procedures to prolong their stay. It also sought to shield the I.N.S. from
legal challenges to its practices. Immigration lawyers are already suing to
block parts of the law from taking effect, and more suits are likely. In some of
these cases, Justice Department lawyers have made the bizarre argument that the
new limits on court jurisdiction mean that judges cannot even hear the
challenges.

The law is so confusing and contradictory that the Clinton Administration's
decisions about how to enforce it assume special importance. So far,
Administration policy makers and Justice Department lawyers have largely pushed
for the harshest possible interpretation, perhaps to avoid being seen as
pro-immigrant.

One of the law's most pernicious aspects is its attempt to ban certain
class-action injunctions. Those would keep the I.N.S. from violating the law in
its deportations of people seeking to enter the United States and certain groups
of recently arrived illegal immigrants. Only individual lawsuits are now
allowed. This removes what has been the most important safeguard against
discrimination and abuse. Such an injunction, for example, stopped the I.N.S.
from denying Haitian boat people the ability to seek political asylum.

In some cases, the law seeks to block individuals from going to court to
challenge their deportations. Immigration officers can pick up people on the
street and detain and deport them without a hearing if they cannot prove they
entered on a visa or have been here for two years. Legal residents can be
deported if they have been convicted of a crime or two offenses of moral
turpitude, which could include jumping a subway turnstile. Most of these cases
turn on decisions by I.N.S. examiners that cannot be argued before a court.

Perhaps the law's worst flaw is that its denial of access to the courts will
make it much harder for those fleeing political persecution to win asylum. The
new law requires immigrants to meet difficult tests that they are not likely to
know about and be prepared for. They will also have no opportunity to go to
court if their applications fail, which means that America will be sending
people back home to dangerous situations.

Perhaps this law will be overturned by the courts. In the interim, the
Administration should apply it with compassion and flexibility. This law won
political passage by attacking an unpopular group. That, historically, is how
more widespread deprivations of rights have started. The law is not just an
assault on vulnerable people who deserve protection from abuse, but a threat to
the liberties of all Americans.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Judge Refuses to Block New Immigration Rule

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 4


A Federal judge today refused to issue an order temporarily blocking a major
part of the new immigration law that makes it easier for the United States to
turn away some people seeking asylum.

The judge, Emmet G. Sullivan of Federal District Court here, rejected the
request by a coalition of immigrants' advocates for a temporary court order
blocking the expedited removal rules, which took effect Tuesday as part of the
new law.

Judge Sullivan promised a "prompt decision" on the merits of the underlying suit
challenging that one provision. He set a May 22 hearing for oral arguments on
the matter and vowed to hand down a ruling soon after that session.

The groups challenged the Immigration and Naturalization Service's rules
allowing its agents to refuse entry to individuals with improper documents
unless a credible fear of persecution is found. Under the new rules, the agents
are not required to mention the right of asylum unless the person asks about it.

Asylum seekers were previously granted entry and given time to file a claim. Now
immigration officials can decide the request immediately if the person has
invalid or fraudulent documents, and court reviews of those decisions are
limited.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 8, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton and Congress at Odds On Aid to Legal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1091 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 7


Republicans said today that they were drafting legislation to provide as much as
$2 billion in aid to states with large numbers of legal immigrants who will lose
benefits under the new welfare law, but Clinton Administration officials said
they strenuously opposed the plan because it would result in disparate policies
in different states.

Instead, the officials said they wanted full restoration of disability benefits
for most legal immigrants, including children and elderly people who have not
become citizens.

Republicans in Congress want to provide states with lump sums of money, or block
grants, to help legal immigrants. House Republicans, led by Representative E.
Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, said they were considering a maximum of $2 billion in
aid over the next two or three years.

By contrast, Mr. Clinton would permanently restore disability benefits and
Medicaid for many legal immigrants, at a cost of $15 billion over six years. New
York would receive about 15 percent of the money in each case, while New Jersey
would receive perhaps 3 percent.

The dispute continues a philosophical debate that has raged since Republicans
took control of Congress in 1995 on whether states or the Federal Government can
better design social welfare programs.

The Secretary of Health and Human Services, Donna E. Shalala, said the
Administration opposed block grants because they would be "unfair and
unworkable."

In an interview, Dr. Shalala said the Administration believed that the Federal
Government should set uniform national standards for providing disability
benefits to legal immigrants, who were admitted to the United States under
Federal policies.

"We believe that an elderly disabled immigrant -- a 75-year-old disabled woman
-- in New Hampshire ought to be treated the same as a woman of the same age in
California or Ohio," Dr. Shalala said. "Their eligibility should be determined
through national policy, not left to the discretion of the states."

Republicans on Capitol Hill said that they were surprised by the
Administration's position -- and they said it could backfire. The President and
the immigrants risked ending up with nothing if they insisted on getting far
more than Congress was willing to provide to legal immigrants, the Republicans
said.

Mr. Shaw, the chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Human Resources,
said he recently had a sobering conversation with the chairman of the House
Appropriations Committee, Representative Robert L. Livingston, of Louisiana, who
said it would be difficult to find even $2 billion to assist states with
benefits for many legal immigrants.

As for the $15 billion sought by President Clinton, Mr. Shaw said: "That's just
out of sight. It ain't going to happen. There's no way Congress is going to be
able to find that kind of money. There's no sense even thinking about it."

With some exceptions, the 1996 welfare law bans immigrants from receiving
Federal Supplemental Security Income and food stamps unless they become
citizens.

But Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a
Hispanic civil rights organization, said today: "A 95-year-old woman losing
Supplemental Security Income benefits is not going to be comforted by the fact
that her governor will get a block grant. What she needs is her S.S.I. check. It
will be extremely difficult for states to find the people most in need and get
them enrolled in a new program."

The Congressional Budget Office has said that more than 40 percent of the
savings attributable to the new welfare law -- $24 billion of $55 billion over
six years -- would result from restrictions on benefits for legal immigrants.
Republicans see these savings as essential to their plan to balance the budget.

New York Republicans, including Gov. George E. Pataki, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani
and Representative Susan Molinari, strongly support efforts to restore Federal
benefits for legal immigrants who are disabled or elderly.

Immigrants in New York and California recently filed class-action lawsuits
challenging the denial of Supplemental Security Income benefits and food stamps
to noncitizens. They said the restrictions violated the constitutional guarantee
of "equal protection of the laws."

Under the new law, states may deny welfare and Medicaid to noncitizens here
before Aug. 22, when Mr. Clinton signed the law. A recent commentary in the
Harvard Law Review said that this last provision authorized states to violate
the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.

The welfare law says that the denial of benefits to immigrants is warranted by
two "compelling Government interests": to assure that aliens will be
self-reliant and to "remove the incentive for illegal immigration provided by
the availability of public benefits." But plaintiffs in the two lawsuits said
that the denial of subsistence benefits to legal immigrants would do nothing to
deter illegal immigration.

On a lobbying trip to Capitol Hill last month, Mr. Giuliani won some initial
support for a proposal that would allow legal immigrants already in the United
States to continue receiving benefits. City officials estimate that 75,000 legal
immigrants in New York City are receiving Supplemental Security Income, while
135,000 receive food stamps.

A wide range of bills to revise the welfare law have been introduced in
Congress. Representative Luis V. Gutierrez of Illinois and Senator Paul
Wellstone of Minnesota, both Democrats, have offered the most comprehensive
proposals, which would repeal all of the new restrictions on benefits for
immigrants. They would cover the cost by eliminating some corporate tax breaks.

Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Representative Tom
Campbell, Republican of California, have introduced bills that would restore
S.S.I. benefits for legal immigrants who were in the United States on Aug. 22
and are elderly, disabled and poor.

Other bills to restore benefits have been introduced by Representatives Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen and Lincoln Diaz-Balart, both Florida Republicans who were born in
Cuba and represent many Cuban-Americans; Carrie P. Meek, Democrat of Florida;
Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Patrick J. Kennedy, Democrat of
Rhode Island.

Mr. Campbell and Ms. Molinari said they strongly supported the 1996 welfare law.
But Mr. Campbell said: "No law is perfect. There is one glaring problem to be
corrected, dealing with those legal immigrants who are too old and infirm to
obtain their citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Senate Takes A First Step To Restoring Aid for Aliens

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 786 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14


Several thousand people rallied on Capitol Hill today, urging Congress to
restore welfare and disability benefits for legal immigrants who have not become
citizens. And the Senate took a first step to address the concerns that prompted
the rally.

By unanimous consent, the Senate endorsed a measure declaring that "elderly and
disabled legal immigrants who are unable to work should receive assistance
essential to their well-being." Further, it said, "the President, Congress, the
states and faith-based and other organizations should continue to work together
toward that end."

The declaration, expressing "the sense of the Senate," originated in a proposal
by Senator Paul Wellstone, Democrat of Minnesota. But Senator Trent Lott of
Mississippi, the Republican leader, offered a substitute, which was adopted by
the Senate.

The resolution does not provide money or alter the 1996 welfare law, which made
noncitizens ineligible for many types of Federal aid. But it does suggest that
lawmakers are coming under political pressure to soften the most stringent
provisions of the law affecting immigrants.

Earlier today several Republican lawmakers joined Democrats in saying they would
try to relax the restrictions imposed on benefits for immigrants last year.

Senators John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, and Dianne Feinstein,
Democrat of California, said they would soon introduce legislation to preserve
disability benefits and food stamps for legal immigrants who were receiving such
assistance before Aug. 22, 1996, when President Clinton signed the welfare bill.

Republican Representatives like Susan Molinari and Peter T. King of New York and
Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut have signed up as co-sponsors of a separate bill
to allow food stamps and Supplemental Security Income benefits for legal
immigrants who became disabled after entering the United States. The bill was
introduced by Representative Lincoln Diaz-Balart, a Florida Republican who was
born in Cuba and represents many Cuban-Americans.

Of today's vote, Mr. Wellstone said: "It's a small victory, but it can lead to a
bigger victory. It shows that pressure is bubbling up from different states,
from mayors, county commissioners and governors."

Mr. Lott expressed no interest in providing assistance to legal immigrants when
Republican governors first appealed to him in late January, but he now says he
is willing to help if the money can be found.

Mr. Wellstone said that while many elderly immigrants were not citizens, they
had sons and daughters who were citizens and would vote. Yosef I. Abramowitz,
president of the Union of Councils for Soviet Jews, said: "We will play
electoral hardball in November 1998. We will penalize those in Congress who are
trying to throw our parents, grandparents and neighbors into the streets."

Today's rally was organized mainly by immigrants from Russia, Ukraine and other
republics of the former Soviet Union, who had not previously lobbied much on the
welfare law. The protesters included many older men wearing medals from World
War II, who said they had fought the Nazis and then been persecuted by the
Communists. Koreans and Hispanic-Americans were also in the crowd.

The rally began with klezmer music as Russian immigrants gathered on the west
side of the Capitol with signs and banners. Many said they would soon lose
disability benefits because they could not pass the required English-language
test.

Sabina Pello of Chicago held a notice from the Social Security Administration
that warns immigrants that they may soon lose disability benefits. "This letter
is a death sentence for many people in their 80's and 90's," she said. "They are
shocked by the new welfare law."

Mr. Abramowitz told the immigrants: "You came to our shores for a safe haven
from persecution. By Labor Day, we may have half a million new homeless and
starving people."

In an interview, Representative King said: "From a parochial point of view,
cutting off welfare benefits for legal immigrants will have a devastating effect
on New York State and its budget. We have a large number of legal immigrants,
and under our state constitution, we have to make aid available to them. Legal
immigrants came to this country legally, played by the rules and should not be
penalized. To just cut them off altogether is unconscionable."

Representatives Jerrold Nadler of New York, Carrie P. Meek of Florida and Luis
V. Gutierrez of Illinois, all Democrats, spoke at the rally.

Mr. Nadler called the ban on benefits for immigrants "un-American and
disgusting, cruel, mean-spirited, unjust." Ms. Meek said she hoped that Congress
would repeal the ban or delay it at least a year.


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 5, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. BACKING OFF A DEAL TO RESTORE AID TO IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1011 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4


House Republicans today backed away from their commitment to restore Federal aid
for certain legal immigrants, prompting the Clinton Administration to complain
that the Republicans were violating the bipartisan budget agreement reached just
five weeks ago.

In addition, a proposal announced today by House Republicans would override a
recent White House ruling that state governments must pay the minimum wage to
welfare recipients participating in workfare programs.

Administration officials denounced both proposals, which the Republicans have
added to a comprehensive bill intended to balance the Federal budget.

Vice President Al Gore said the proposals on immigrants were "harsh, unfair and
unnecessary." Moreover, he said, "they violate the terms of the bipartisan
budget agreement by failing to restore a minimal safety net" for legal
immigrants who have not become citizens. Mr. Gore said the proposals "would cut
off 100,000 severely disabled immigrants who would receive benefits under the
budget agreement."

The agreement, reached on May 2, was a framework for legislation to balance the
budget. Republicans are now filling in the details, and they said today that
they did not feel obliged to accept every item in the agreement.

Representative Sander M. Levin of Michigan, the ranking Democrat on the House
Ways and Means subcommittee that writes welfare legislation, said the proposals
on immigrants "clearly violate the budget agreement." Accordingly, he said,
"this bill is heading toward confrontation instead of bipartisan accord."

Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, the chief author of the 1996 welfare
law, said the Republicans were improving the budget agreement, by guaranteeing
benefits for certain elderly immigrants rather than for those who become
disabled.

The Republicans are playing with political fire in restricting benefits for
legal immigrants. Their proposals have proved unpopular in parts of Florida,
Texas and other states with many immigrants. And the party itself is divided,
with some Republicans like Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York urging Congress
to restore aid to legal immigrants.

After learning of the new proposal by Congressional Republicans, Colleen A.
Roche, a spokeswoman for Mayor Giuliani, said, "The proponents of this change
should be ashamed of themselves for trying to play off the elderly against the
disabled." Lobbyists for the elderly echoed that comment.

Supporters of legal immigration, including Hispanic groups, Jewish organizations
and Roman Catholic bishops, criticized the Republican proposals as a retreat
from the budget agreement.

The Republicans' welfare proposals are much more contentious than their Medicare
proposals, which were unanimously approved tonight by the Ways and Means
Subcommittee on Health.

The welfare law signed by Mr. Clinton on Aug. 22, 1996, cut off many Federal
benefits for noncitizens. Restoring some of those benefits is a top priority for
the President.

The Congressional Budget Office estimates that 500,000 legal immigrants will
lose Supplemental Security Income benefits this summer because of the law. The
program, for the indigent elderly and the disabled, pays a maximum of $484 a
month for an individual and $726 a month for a couple.

The budget agreement, negotiated by Mr. Clinton and Congressional Republican
leaders, explicitly promised to "restore Supplemental Security Income and
Medicaid eligibility for all disabled legal immigrants who are or become
disabled and who entered the United States prior to Aug. 23, 1996."

The new Republican bill would restore benefits only for those who were actually
receiving benefits on Aug. 22, not for those who were in the United States then
and later become disabled.

Many immigrants have relatives or other "sponsors" in the United States who
agreed to support them. Under today's Republican proposal, an immigrant could
not receive Supplemental Security Income payments if the sponsor's income was
more than 50 percent above the official poverty level. A family of three would
meet this test if it had income exceeding $18,775 a year.

Republicans said they assumed that such a family could take full financial
responsibility for a disabled immigrant. Vice President Gore said that the
assumption was unwarranted.

When Mr. Clinton signed the welfare bill, he said he would fight to restore
benefits for legal immigrants. Republicans like Mr. Shaw contend that the budget
agreement went too far. "Supplemental Security Income has become a pension plan
for third-world countries," Mr. Shaw said today.

Mr. Shaw also said that Republicans never intended for the minimum wage to apply
to workfare participants.

Workfare programs require welfare recipients to work in return for their
benefits. Governors of both parties said that any requirement for them to pay
the minimum wage would vastly increase the cost of their work programs.

The Republicans' new proposal says that welfare recipients working for a public
agency or a nonprofit organization shall not be considered employees for
purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act or any other Federal law. The minimum
wage -- now $4.75 an hour, rising to $5.15 on Sept. 1 -- is part of the labor
standards law.

The Republican proposal says that states may count welfare, food stamps,
Medicaid, child care and housing subsidies as income for people in workfare
programs. States divide the amount of such income by the minimum wage to
determine the number of hours that a person may be required to work for a public
agency or a nonprofit organization.

It is easier for states to meet the law's work requirements if they can count
government benefits as income. But Elena Kagan, the President's deputy assistant
for domestic policy, said: "The Administration strongly opposes these
provisions. They are clearly outside the scope of the budget agreement. They
violate the principle that workfare participants, like other workers, should get
the benefit of the minimum wage and other worker-protection laws."

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 11, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

House Panel Backs Benefits For Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 389 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 10


The House Ways and Means Committee tonight approved legislation that would
guarantee cash benefits for hundreds of thousands of impoverished legal
immigrants who would otherwise lose such aid this summer as a result of the 1996
welfare law.

The bill, approved on a vote of 21 to 18, would continue benefits paid under the
Supplemental Security Income program to legal immigrants who were on the rolls
on Aug. 22, 1996, when President Clinton signed the welfare bill.

The committee narrowly rejected a Democratic proposal to restore benefits for
even more immigrants -- those who came to the United States before Aug. 22,
1996, and become disabled after that date.

Committee aides said that the bill approved tonight would reinstate benefits for
500,000 immigrants who are disabled or elderly, including more than 66,000 in
New York State and 165,000 in California. But White House officials and
Congressional Democrats said the legislation violated the bipartisan budget
agreement reached last month because it did not restore benefits for the other
group of immigrants.

The Senate Finance Committee is working on legislation similar to that approved
by the Ways and Means Committee. The measures will all be wrapped together in a
big budget bill.

Judy L. Chesser, a deputy commissioner of Social Security, said that the
Republicans' bill would deny aid to 75,000 severely disabled legal immigrants
who would have received benefits under the budget agreement. The number
adversely affected will rise to 125,000 in 2007, she said.

Representative Xavier Becerra, a California Democrat who is chairman of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, offered a proposal to cover all those
noncitizens. It was rejected on a vote of 20 to 19.

About 700,000 of these legal immigrants now get Supplemental Security Income
benefits. The Congressional Budget Office assumes that 200,000 of them will be
able to keep their benefits by becoming United States citizens, but it estimates
that the other 500,000 will lose benefits this summer under the 1996 law.

Under the measure approved tonight, people participating in state workfare
programs are not assured of the Federal minimum wage. An amendment that would
have extended that protection was rejected on a party-line vote of 22 to 16,
with Republicans saying it was unnecessary.


LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Automatic Deportation Law Isn't Retroactive, Judge Says

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 974 words


The Government cannot use the 1996 antiterrorism law to automatically deport
legal immigrants who were convicted of some crimes before it was enacted, a
Federal judge ruled yesterday.

The judge, Jack B. Weinstein of United States District Court in Brooklyn, ruled
that the Justice Department cannot retroactively deny those immigrants the
chance to ask an immigration judge to allow them to stay in the country on
humanitarian grounds, or the chance to ask a Federal district court to review
the deportation order for a legal error.

His ruling rejected an order Attorney General Janet Reno issued last year that
the law be applied even if the crime was committed decades ago and, in some
cases, even after an immigration judge had already blocked the deportation.

In a stinging rebuke to Ms. Reno, Judge Weinstein characterized her legal
reasoning as irrational and her order as "an arbitrary abuse of power." He said
the Reno policy would be cruel to immigrants who may have come to this country
as children, committed a crime, rehabilitated themselves and have families here
who depend on them.

Lawyers for the Government said an appeal was likely. "We believe the
Government's position is consistent with Supreme Court precedent and Congress's
reasonable efforts to streamline the often abused deportation process so that
aliens convicted of serious crimes can be expeditiously deported," said Scott
Dunn, an assistant United States attorney.

Judge Weinstein's ruling comes at a time when the law on deportation of
immigrants with criminal records is in a highly unsettled state, immigration law
experts say. Dozens of legal challenges to laws adopted last year are pending
around the country. But the experts said they knew of no other ruling that had
addressed the issue of retroactivity.

Congress twice changed the law last year on the deportation of criminal aliens,
first in April in the antiterrorism law and again in September. Both times, it
significantly broadened the offenses that lead to mandatory deportation, but the
two laws defined those crimes differently. Immigration lawyers and Federal
officials disagree about which law should apply in which cases.

The resolution of these legal quandaries will affect the lives of thousands of
immigrants. As the Government has moved more aggressively to deport immigrants
with criminal records, the number asking immigration judges to waive their
deportation on humanitarian grounds has risen sharply, to 6,517 last year. In
the 1990's, immigration judges have typically allowed more than 40 percent of
immigrants who sought waivers to remain in the country. But since October, the
approval rate has fallen to 18 percent.

Judge Weinstein set aside the deportation orders for the two plaintiffs in the
case before him: Saul Navas, a 22-year-old Panamanian convicted of driving a
stolen car and snatching a purse, and Guillermo Mojica, a 56-year-old Colombian
convicted of conspiring to distribute cocaine in 1988.  Both were longtime legal
residents of the United States whose immediate families live in this country.

The judge also ruled that Federal district courts have broad authority to review
immigration judges' deportation orders against immigrants with criminal records
-- an authority that other Federal judges have interpreted more narrowly.

Advocates for immigrants and civil libertarians who have sued the government
around the country said yesterday that they hoped the force of Judge Weinstein's
legal reasoning in his 103-page ruling would influence courts beyond his
jurisdiction.

"The Justice Department is asking for the unprecedented power to act as law
enforcement and then as judge if anyone challenges the legality of its actions,"
said Lee Gelernt, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union's
Immigrants' Rights Project, which helped represent the men. "We are fighting to
insure that no one is erroneously deported based solely on the word of the
Justice Department."

Until Congress adopted the antiterrorism law in April 1996, legal permanent
residents who had committed crimes defined by Congress as "aggravated felonies"
and who had served five years or more in prison were generally the only ones
subject to mandatory deportation. Immigrants who had committed other crimes or
who had served less than five years could ask an immigration judge to waive
their deportation on humanitarian grounds.

But the antiterrorism law barred those waivers for a greatly expanded range of
crimes, including ones that Judge Weinstein called relatively minor offenses --
for example, one minor drug possession charge or two misdemeanor petty theft
charges.

Lawyers for the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service contended that
the antiterrorism law should apply to all pending applications for waivers of
deportation, even if the crimes had been committed long ago. The Board of
Immigration Appeals, the highest administrative tribunal in the immigration
system, disagreed.

Ms. Reno then overruled the board, deciding that the law should be retroactive,
though she noted that nothing in the law "specifies either that it is to be
applied in pending proceedings or that it is not."

Judge Weinstein found that Congress had included explicit language making other
sections of the law retroactive, but had not done so on the issue of eligibility
for waivers of deportation. Without a clear expression of Congress's intent, the
law cannot be applied retroactively, he said.

"Retroactive application would create a situation in which people who have lived
in the community, have established themselves as valuable members of society,
and who are needed to support their families, are summarily deported without
regard to the present and future interests of their families or the community at
large," the judge wrote.



LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 17, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

A Law Aimed at Terrorists Hits Legal Immigrants

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1889 words


In the three months since a tougher new counterterrorism bill was signed into
law, many immigrants who have been living legally in the United States for years
have been placed in detention by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
are facing deportation.

Under provisions in the new law, any resident immigrant who is not a naturalized
citizen and has been convicted of a crime in the United States, including most
felonies and certain misdemeanors, can be detained without appeal and is not
eligible for release on bond, according to I.N.S. officials. Many have been
arrested as they tried to re-enter the country after trips abroad.

The new Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty Act, which was signed by
President Clinton on April 24 on the one-year anniversary of the Oklahoma City
bombing, was part of an omnibus crime package. The law was intended to make it
easier to prosecute anyone charged with committing or planning a terrorist
attack, and it limited the number of legal appeals for prisoners on death row.

But immigration officials say the law also requires them to detain and deport
noncitizens because they have previously been convicted of a crime, no matter
how long ago or how minor. Among those being detained are lawful permanent
residents -- those who have lived in the country for at least seven years, have
married American citizens or have children who are citizens.

In addition, it eliminates the right to apply for a waiver of deportation.
Under the previous law, such waivers were granted to "deserving individuals
based on their length of residence in the U.S., evidence of rehabilitation and
the hardship that their deportation would cause themselves and family members."
Immigration officials say that the new law precludes them from issuing waivers
and releasing detained residents on bond.

The immigration agency says it has no figures on how many people have been
detained or deported under the law. But several immigration lawyers say that
based on their caseloads, hundreds of long-term legal residents have been
arrested since the law was passed.

The detentions have touched off a heated debate over the Government's
interpretation and enforcement of the law. At the time of the signing, President
Clinton noted that "this bill also makes a number of major ill-advised changes
in our immigration laws having nothing to do with fighting terrorism."

"These provisions eliminate most remedial relief for long-term legal residents,"
the President warned.

He said he would urge Congress to correct the provisions in legislation, which
is now being drafted to address problems in this and other immigration laws.


Lawyers for some detainees concede that the language of the law allows little
flexibility in how it is applied. Nevertheless, they say, the immigration agency
is being too rigid. They have filed pleas in Federal courts around the nation to
prevent the agency from deporting their clients without due process.

"The service has taken the position that the act requires the mandatory
detention of any lawful permanent resident who has been convicted of any drug
crime, firearms crime and a host of other crimes, regardless of when the
convictions occurred," said Judy Rabinovitz, senior staff counsel for the
Immigrants' Rights Project of the American Civil Liberties Union.

"The agency is also applying the elimination of discretionary deportation relief
to all pending cases, even those in deportation proceedings prior to the
enactment of the law," she said. "We believe the Constitution also applies to
lawful permanent residents and plan to file appeals on those grounds."

Rigid Language Allows 'Little Choice'

David A. Martin, general counsel of the immigration agency, countered that its
officials had not adopted a hard-line approach. "We felt the law and the
precedent gave us little choice on some of the positions we've taken," Mr.
Martin said.

The law expanded the "grounds of deportability" to cover any drug offense,
including marijuana possession, as well as moral turpitude, which in New York
State includes crimes like defacing a passport and turnstile jumping.
Previously, possession of 30 grams or less of marijuana was not grounds for
deportation, nor were acts of moral turpitude committed after five years of
entry into the country.

Both sides agree that the new law does not make distinctions between the
seriousness of crimes, how long ago the crime was committed or whether the
person had served time in prison. As a result, they say only Congress can remedy
the situation.

According to Congressional aides, new immigration legislation now being drafted
in conference committee restores some discretion on deportation for certain
noncitizens, like those who have not committed violent crimes, are not repeat
offenders, are longtime residents or are rehabilitated.

Immigration officials say they are working with Congressional leaders to
reconcile some of the stricter provisions now in effect with more lenient
measures in the previous law.

"We would like to see some of the earlier waiver discretion," Mr. Martin said.
"In cases of longtime residents who have paid their debt to society and are
rehabilitated, deportation would seem quite disproportionate for a single drug
possession.

"We think the anti-terrorism act went too far, but the Administration has been
looking for some tightening of these forms of relief."

Last month, the Board of Immigration Appeals restored the deportation waiver for
anyone who had filed an application before April 24. Mr. Martin said the
immigration agency disagreed with the board's decision, which is nonbinding, and
filed a request yesterday for a review by the Attorney General.

Immigrants' advocates blame what they call rising anti-immigration sentiment for
the tougher law, but say it exceeds what most Americans would find acceptable.

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation of American Immigration Reform,
a group that lobbies for tighter immigration laws, disagrees.

"I don't think there is much empathy for criminal aliens," Mr. Stein said. "Most
Americans want them out of the country. Civil rights activists are trying to
punch holes in much-needed loophole reform and attempting to curry public
sympathy by presenting these worst-scenario cases."

Since 1993, the immigration agency has deported more than 140,000 people,
including those who were convicted of aggravated felonies, were working
illegally or were rejected as asylum seekers.

Their Only Crime Is Being Caught

But many of those recently detained are lawful residents whose only crime, say
friends and relatives, was being caught.

Lorraine Parris, a native of Guyana, was placed in detention in May after
returning to New York with her husband from a belated honeymoon.

"If I had only known, my wife and I would never have made that trip to Guyana,"
said Carl Cush, Ms. Parris's husband.

Mr. Cush is an American citizen. Ms. Parris, who has an 18-year-old
American-born son, entered the United States in 1970 at age 14. She was
convicted of marijuana possession in the late-1970's and is being held in Pike
County, Pa.

A few days ago, Mr. Cush sat in the office of Kerry William Bretz, his lawyer,
with a group of strangers who all had stories of loved ones who had recently
left the country on business or pleasure, returned to Kennedy International
Airport but were arrested after computer searches identified them as convicted
criminals.

Among Mr. Bretz's clients in detention are Richard Thomas, a disk jockey born in
Trinidad who has two children who are American citizens; Lasson Ross, a father
of two and a counselor for the mentally retarded, who came to the United States
in 1983 from Jamaica, and Moese Sabala, who immigrated from the Dominican
Republic in 1988 and has worked as a chemist, machine operator and painter.

Mr. Thomas and Mr. Ross were both convicted of drug possession and have finished
their sentences. Mr. Sabala was arrested in 1989, convicted of criminal
facilitation of a controlled substance and sentenced to one to three years. He
was paroled after serving one year.

They are only days or weeks from being permanently exiled.

Most detainees and their family members who were interviewed said they knew
nothing about the provisions in the terrorism bill and are angry the legislation
passed without public notice of its broader impact. They also complained that
family members were put in centers outside New York State, are allowed only one
or two phone calls a day and can communicate with visitors only through a glass
partition.

"My brother didn't want us to tell our mother because he was afraid this would
make her ill," said Elston Thomas, whose brother, Richard, is being detained for
a 1991 drug-possession conviction. "Richard had a job. He paid his taxes and
he's never had any other run-ins with the law since. What justice would be
served by deporting him?"

Mr. Thomas, who came to the United States in 1979 at age 14, has not lived in
his native land since then and has no personal ties to it.

Mr. Bretz, who has worked as both a trial lawyer for the I.N.S. and a private
immigration lawyer, has 42 clients currently in detention centers in New York,
Pennsylvania and Louisiana. All were arrested when they tried to re-enter the
country or went to the immigration service offices to renew green cards or work
permits.

"There will undoubtedly be constitutional challenges to the law the way it now
stands," Mr. Bretz said. "The law has all these due process provisions for
terrorists that allow them, as noncitizens suspected of terrorism, to apply for
a bond for release from detention, but no such bond release for longtime
permanent residents. I believe everyone would agree that the Constitution
applies to legal permanent residents.

This Year's Penalty For Last Year's Act

"The law should affect only those arrested and convicted after April 24," Mr.
Bretz added. "Imagine. You spit on the ground last year and you wake up today
and Congress has passed a law that says police can come and arrest you for
spitting on the ground a year ago."

Since immigration officials are not aggressively tracking down people with
criminal records to detain them, Mr. Bretz is advising clients who could be held
under the law not to travel outside the country.

Some supporters of the tougher measures suggested that immigrants with records
could have protected themselves by becoming citizens. To that suggestion,
advocates cite the case of Olga Gonzalez.

Ms. Gonzalez, a 33-year-old single mother, immigrated from Colombia when she was
6. In 1987, she was convicted of criminal facilitation in a drug purchase, a
felony, and sentenced to three to nine years. She was released in 1989 and went
on to get a college degree. She worked as a secretary for Mayor David N. Dinkins
and is now a social worker at the Childrens' Welfare Fund in New York.

On May 29, she flew to Colombia to bury her mother. She returned to Kennedy
Airport on June 18 and was immediately put in detention at the immigration
agency's holding center at Varick Street, where she is awaiting deportation.

She was to be sworn in as a citizen on May 30.

"It would be a travesty and injustice to deport this woman," said Leon Quintero,
her lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 18, 1996, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article on Wednesday about the counterterrorism law's impact on permanent
residents with criminal records misstated the date of the Oklahoma City bombing.
It was April 19, 1995, not April 24.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At left, Andres Sabala, whose son Moese, above, was picked up
as he returned from a vacation in Santo Domingo. Moese Thomas, who has lived in
the United States since 1988, served a year in jail for drug possession in
1989-90. He is on the verge of permanent deportation. At left, Barbara Thomas,
seated, and her son Elston. Above, another son, Richard Thomas, who has lived in
the United States since 1979 and has two children who are American citizens. He
is being detained for a 1991 drug conviction and is scheduled for deportation.
(Photographs by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B5)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Mayor Opposes Some Revisions In Welfare Plan

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1053 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 26


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani says that a welfare bill speeding through Congress
would impose immense new costs on New York City by cutting Federal aid for poor
children, disabled people and legal immigrants.

In a letter this week to Congressional leaders, Mr. Giuliani said he supported
the basic concept of the bill, which would eliminate the Federal guarantee of
cash assistance for poor children and give states vast new authority to run
their own welfare and work programs with lump sums of Federal money.

But he criticized almost every one of the bill's major provisions, saying they
would simply "shift costs to local governments."

Mr. Giuliani, who has often found himself at odds with the national Republican
Party and Republicans in Congress, said the bill could impose nearly $900
million a year in additional costs on New York City: $290 million for legal
immigrants; $380 million to provide child care for welfare recipients, $100
million for work programs and $100 million to aid people cut from the Federal
rolls because of a five-year limit on welfare payments to any family. (The city
budget is $33 billion a year.)

In his letter, Mr. Giuliani said the welfare bill was "of enormous importance"
to New York, the nation's largest city, because one million New York City
residents receive public assistance. About 850,000 of them get benefits through
Aid to Families With Dependent Children, which the legislation would abolish.

The bill's restrictions on aid to legal immigrants, which account for one-third
of its savings, would have "a particularly serious impact in New York City,
where 30 percent of the population is foreign-born," Mr. Giuliani wrote. His
press secretary, Colleen A. Roche, said tonight that the Mayor was "just as
concerned about the bill's effects on children."

Asked why the Mayor had not pressed Congress earlier, as versions of the bill
were being considered by both houses, Richard J. Schwartz, senior adviser to the
Mayor, said "the bill has reached a point where it's really quite serious."

The letter is unlikely to sway Republicans, who control both houses of Congress
and previously passed two similar measures, only to see them vetoed by President
Clinton. But Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, cited the
letter as evidence that the bill would be "ruinous to New York City."

The new welfare bill has been passed in slightly different forms by both houses
of Congress. Republican leaders of the two chambers say they will complete work
on it next week, before starting a monthlong recess. President Clinton has sent
conflicting signals about whether he will sign or veto the bill.

Mr. Giuliani, a Republican, has often staked out a course independent of his
party, often infuriating Republican leaders. In 1994, the Mayor helped President
Clinton sell his crime bill, and he later abandoned his party to support the
re-election of Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, as Governor. More recently, he
criticized Bob Dole for supporting Republican legislation that would restrict
aid to immigrants. At the same time, the White House has begun openly courting
the Mayor's endorsement of President Clinton's re-election.

Mr. Giuliani is expected to run for re-election next year, and such positions
are likely to help him appeal to the city's Democratic voters, who outnumber
Republicans more than 4 to 1.

But Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, a strong supporter of the welfare bill, said he
did not see Mr. Giuliani's intervention in the debate as a political maneuver.

"It's a legitimate expression of concern," Mr. D'Amato said in an interview
tonight. "The Mayor is concerned about the economic impact on New York City. I
don't believe it's some attempt on his part to bash Republicans. I don't
attribute it to any anti-Republican sentiment. If he thinks there will be an
adverse impact in some areas, he has a right and an obligation to express his
concerns."

New York City could not easily absorb the new costs cited by Mr. Giuliani. A
report from the New York State Financial Control Board in March said that "the
city's finances continue to deteriorate" despite the city's efforts to close the
gap between spending and revenues. Under the city's financial plan for the next
four years, the board said, spending is projected to grow about 2 percent a
year, but revenues slightly less than 1 percent a year.

The Urban Institute, a research organization in Washington, estimated today that
the welfare bill would push 2.6 million people, including 1.1 million children,
into poverty.

The Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi, brushed aside the
estimate. "I don't put any credence in that at all," he said. "The best way to
help children in poverty is for their parents to have a job." The welfare bill
would require most adults to work within two years of receiving welfare.

The Federal welfare bill would impose a virtual ban on food stamps and other
Federal benefits for most noncitizens. In his letter, Mr. Giuliani said these
restrictions were "unfair to legal permanent residents, who would be denied many
benefits which they help to finance through taxes."

In addition, he said, "the city opposes provisions in the House and Senate bills
that would limit benefits to deserving disabled children by tightening
eligibility requirements."

The Mayor also opposed most of the changes intended to cut the growth of food
stamp spending. He said these changes would penalize places like New York, with
a high cost of living and high shelter costs.

Mr. Giuliani also criticized a section of the welfare bill that would prevent
states from using Federal money to provide vouchers to families who are denied
cash benefits because of the five-year limit. President Clinton supports such
vouchers as a way to help families buy diapers, clothing, medicine and other
items for children.

Senator Lott said today that there was no prospect of such vouchers because the
House and the Senate had rejected them. "The voucher plan is a way to get around
ending welfare after five years," he said. "It's an escape hatch. And it's just
not going to happen."

Mr. Giuliani's letter was sent to members of New York's Congressional delegation
and to House and Senate negotiators who are writing the final version of the
welfare bill.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 22, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For States, Complications Only Begin When Welfare Bill Is Signed

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1370 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Aug. 21


The welfare bill that President Clinton is expected to sign on Thursday creates
such complicated questions for the states that officials here have yet to
determine how much Federal aid New York will lose, even after spending five
weeks studying the legislation.

Preliminary estimates by city and Federal officials suggest that New York City
alone stands to lose $290 million a year because of one provision that
eliminates welfare benefits for legal immigrants who are not American citizens.
But a state task force assigned to measure the effect of the legislation has yet
to determine how many legal immigrants are on the welfare rolls statewide
because such data has never been collected before. The earliest officials expect
to have those figures is in six weeks.

The financial effect of the legislation is causing concern in other states as
well. For example, California officials released a report this week estimating
that their state would lose more than $1 billion a year in aid from Washington
because of the bill, mostly from cuts in benefits to legal immigrants.

The legislation has created other huge headaches for state lawmakers here and
around the country even as it gives them greater flexibility over welfare
policy. Not only will bureaucrats and political leaders have to set new policy,
but they also must choose whether to abide by some of the bill's more stringent
requirements or face financial penalties.

Among the questions raised are these:

*Will states pay for job placement and child-care programs intended to get adult
recipients to work within two years, as the bill requires? If so, how?

*Should states provide benefits for legal immigrants now that the Federal
Government will no longer cover these people?

*And will they deny cash assistance to unmarried mothers who refuse to earn high
school diplomas, as the bill allows?

Although other states, including New Jersey, Connecticut, Michigan and
Wisconsin, have built political consensus over similar limits for welfare, New
York has stood out because it has been riven by debate over proposals from Gov.
George E. Pataki to reduce benefits and impose time limits.

That debate, together with the political split between the Governor and Mayor
Rudolph W. Giuliani, a fellow Republican, will make the next step on welfare
reform especially contentious in New York. The way the stalemate is resolved
here will matter more than in many other states because both the state and New
York City spend a larger proportion of their budgets on welfare recipients than
most other places do.

"The debates in the coming legislative session are going to be fierce because
they are going to be so fundamental," said Anne Erickson, the legislative
coordinator for the Greater Upstate Law Project, an advocacy group for the poor.
"The state is going to have to decide just what to do about poverty,
homelessness and hunger at a time when the Federal Government is abandoning
responsibilities in large part."

Indeed, many advocates for the poor and lawmakers have expressed concern that
critical policy decisions will be made on the basis of their fiscal effect on
the state at a time when New York is trying to close a budget gap projected by
the State Comptroller to be $3 billion.

"The question is going to be, how much are we willing to run up the misery index
to save money?" said Senator Richard A. Dollinger, a Democrat from Rochester.

For six decades, the nation's governors and state legislators have largely
depended on Washington to dictate welfare policy. But now even people who had
supported giving states more control over welfare policy say that the bill has
created unforeseen problems.

"It is going to be an incredibly ambitious undertaking for every state," said
Jack Tweedie, a welfare specialist with the National Conference of State
Legislatures. "Right now, states don't know how they are going to achieve what
needs to be achieved in the welfare bill."

The bill includes a provision that allows the 44 states that have received
Federal waivers to run experimental welfare programs, including New York, to
continue those programs for up to a year, even if the programs don't comply with
the new requirements. But it is far from clear how many states will keep such
programs going and how many will simply embrace the bill's provisions.

New York's waiver applies only to marginal issues and will not be a big factor.

The most pressing question for now is when the state should move to adopt a new
plan. In theory, states have until next July 1 to enact a plan. But some
officials here believe that New York would stand to gain at least $200 million
in Federal aid if it submits a plan soon after the bill takes effect on Oct. 1,
instead of waiting until the deadline.

Until a state submits a plan, it receives Federal funds based on the size of its
current caseload, which in New York is the lowest in years. Once a state submits
a plan, the bill will provide it a lump sum of money, known as a block grant,
based on previous years when the caseloads were much higher.

Governor Pataki has already said he may have to call lawmakers back to Albany to
deal with problems arising from the bill. But advocates for the poor and some
lawmakers have said that it is important for the state not to act hastily,
particularly since officials lack crucial information, such as how many legal
aliens currently receive welfare, Medicaid or other benefits.

Even when that information becomes available, Democratic leaders of the
Assembly, who have opposed changes in the welfare system, will likely resist
returning for a special session before November in order to keep welfare from
becoming an election-year issue.

The leaders of the Assembly also realize that they would have a hard time
persuading many Democrats from more conservative upstate and suburban districts
to oppose the Governor's changes in welfare while they are fighting to keep
their seats. The issue is so touchy that a spokeswoman for Speaker Sheldon
Silver of the Assembly declined to comment.

Yet another question that New York's lawmakers must face is what to do about the
people who are kicked off the Federal welfare rolls because of provisions that
deny benefits to legal immigrants and impose five-year lifetime limits on cash
assistance to families.

New York has a peculiar problem because its Constitution requires state
officials to provide for the "aid, care and support of the needy," as determined
by the State Legislature. Many lawmakers say that means state taxpayers will
have to absorb enormous new costs to provide benefits to people taken off the
Federal rolls, possibly by expanding a state program known as Home Relief.

That program largely provides benefits to single adults and childless couples
who do not qualify for the Federal program known as Aid to Families with
Dependent Children, which the bill abolishes.

But Mr. Pataki has made it clear that he would like to place restrictions on the
state program. He proposed earlier in the year to create a 60-day time limit for
people receiving benefits from Home Relief. Even the Democrats in the Assembly
have proposed their own time limit of five years for Home Relief recipients. But
it is not clear what position the Assembly will take now that Home Relief
emerges as the only safety net in the state for poor families.

Another question is whether New York will adopt the strict new eligibility
requirements suggested in the bill. The states would be free to deny benefits to
a mother who refuses to help officials establish paternity. And under the new
legislation, states will have to deny benefits to anyone convicted of a
drug-related felony unless the states enact legislation to exempt themselves
from that rule.

The bill would also allow state lawmakers to cut off benefits for a teen-age
parent who refuses to finish high school. And it would let states deny
additional money to parents who have children while on public assistance.

It also promises $400 million in bonuses to states that do the best at
containing or reducing their rates of illegitimate births, and sets aside $250
million for educating people about abstinence from sex.


LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

UNCERTAIN WELCOME: Immigrants and Welfare -- A special report.;
For New York's Newcomers, Anxiety Over Welfare Law

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 3092 words


In New York City, where more than half the residents are immigrants or the
children of immigrants, a sense of panic and confusion has rippled from the
shores of Brighton Beach to the streets of Washington Heights as the sweeping
Federal welfare bill has become law, affecting millions of people, but perhaps
none so immediately as the foreign-born.

Ever since President Clinton promised earlier this month to sign the
legislation, a vast overhaul of Federal welfare policy that includes severe
limits on Government aid to noncitizens, the number of immigrants and refugees
seeking naturalization has jumped sharply in New York City, straining the
services of immigrant organizations. Rumors have swirled around the new law,
sending some immigrants into community centers in tears. Others have spent their
days in denial, refusing to believe that changes will take place at all. And
advocates say that some desperate elderly immigrants even talk of suicide.

"We've been overwhelmed," said Manuel Matos, executive director of the Northern
Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights, which has seen the number of
applicants for naturalization double in the last two weeks. "We don't have the
capacity to meet the demand, and it hasn't been like this in the two and a half
years I've been here."

Advocacy groups are expanding hours and staffing to meet the rising demand for
help in seeking naturalization. Grass-roots organizations are trying to find
money to create networks to distribute food and clothing to immigrants whose
benefits are cut off. And still others are passing out fliers, planning forums
and taping spots for television and radio programs to educate immigrants about
the complicated changes.

The legislation, signed into law on Thursday, transfers control of much of the
nation's welfare system from the Federal Government to the states and imposes
many new restrictions on aid to legal immigrants who are not yet citizens. Among
them:

*Legal immigrants will generally no longer be eligible for food stamps or
Supplemental Security Income, the Federal cash support for the poor, elderly and
disabled.

*States will be allowed, but not required, to deny noncitizens cash welfare,
Medicaid, Title XX block grant benefits and other state and local public
assistance.

*Immigrants currently receiving S.S.I. or food stamps will technically be
allowed to do so for up to one year, but individual cut-off dates will depend on
when they undergo annual reviews for benefits. Those now receiving cash welfare,
Medicaid or Title XX services cannot be denied those benefits until after Jan.
1.

*Future legal immigrants will be denied most Federal benefits during their first
five years in the United States, including Medicaid and public housing.

*Sponsorship documents will become legally enforceable, requiring for the first
time that those who sponsor new immigrants pay back any public benefits the
immigrants receive. And in assessing new immigrants' applications for most
Federal aid, the Government will take into account their sponsors' income.
States will be able to do the same.

The law has some exceptions: Legal immigrants who are veterans, in the military,
or who have worked at least 10 years without receiving Federal benefits will be
entitled to the same assistance as American citizens. And refugees granted
asylum will also be exempt from the restrictions on legal immigrants, but only
during their first five years in the United States.

President Clinton, who had criticized the legislation's restrictions on
immigrants as having nothing to do with welfare reform, has said he will try to
change them in the next legislative session, but such change may be difficult
because the immigration provisions represent major budget savings.

New Jersey officials have said the state will try to pick up the cost of
benefits for the 20,000 immigrant families now receiving Aid to Families With
Dependent Children, a bulwark of welfare that the new law abolishes. It is not
clear whether New York State, which has long had the most generous and expansive
poverty programs in the nation, will do the same. A task force is trying to
determine how many legal immigrants are on the state's welfare rolls.

Scott Brenner, a spokesman for the House Ways and Means Committee, said that the
new law merely reinforces existing -- but seldom enforced -- immigration policy,
since noncitizens had technically never been entitled to public aid. He noted
that legal immigrants would still be eligible for emergency medical services,
school lunches and other specified Federal benefits.

But immigrant advocates say that the new law punishes lawful permanent
residents, most of whom have worked and paid taxes as vigilantly as most
citizens. And as harsh as the law will be for future immigrants, they say, it is
particularly devastating for those already here.

"It's one thing to come in and know you're on your own no matter what," said
Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
umbrella organization for some 100 groups working with immigrants and refugees
in the New York area. "It's another thing to yank the net out from under people
who have been here 10 or 20 years, who often worked the lowest paid and most
unsafe jobs, and now find themselves in need of these services."


Fear of the Unknown
Amid Confusion, Rumors Prevail

Roberto Quirico's early life in New York was laced with work and dreams for the
future. Mr. Quirico, a 45-year-old immigrant from the Dominican Republic, held
various jobs and read about historical figures like George Washington and
Franklin D. Roosevelt. Then, in 1992, he suffered a stroke. Heart trouble
followed. He could not work and needed frequent medical care. And his hopes
began to unravel.

"I need a doctor to be by my side all the time," Mr. Quirico said through an
interpreter, wiping tears from his eyes. "If there's no Medicaid, death would be
better for me."

But the changes Mr. Quirico fears will not apply to him because he became a
citizen in June. Such reassurances, however, do not calm him. "I heard that even
the naturalized citizens will be affected," he said. "I came here to improve my
life, to prosper. But I think all my dreams are falling apart."

There is widespread confusion among immigrants over what the new law means to
them. Newspapers for immigrants, from The Carib News to The China Press, have
run articles on the legislation, and grass-roots groups have been trying to
clarify facts. But in these close-knit communities, where even the simplest
messages can be lost in translation, the primary source of communication is word
of mouth. And often rumor prevails.

"Word doesn't tend to filter through that accurately," Mr. Matos said. "So the
word on the street is you're not going to be treated in the hospital if you're
not a citizen. Word on the street is if you owe a couple dollars on a parking
violation, you may be deported. So there's widespread panic."

The rumors are spoken like truths in front of bodegas, on street corners and
along the boardwalk in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Some believe a trip to the
emergency room could lead to deportation. Some believe the children of
noncitizens will be put out of school.

"Everybody is talking about it," said Maria Lopez, 47, a Dominican immigrant who
receives A.F.D.C. and food stamps to care for her three children. "They say
there will be no welfare, no Medicaid, no help at all," she said through an
interpreter. "We will wind up on the streets. So the future means death."

Some are already trying to take advantage of the fear, according to Alexander
Kopelman, spokesman for the New York Association for New Americans, a refugee
resettlement organization. "People are falling prey to scams around
citizenship," he said. "There are always people out there who are ready to
bamboozle people who are scared and don't understand what the law's about."

Immigrant advocates say that most people seeking citizenship are not doing so to
get public assistance. And in fact, 12 percent of all households in the city
headed by someone foreign-born receive public assistance, compared with 14
percent of households headed by native-born New Yorkers, according the
Department of City Planning, citing 1990 census data.

Advocates say that many immigrants feel it is no longer safe to be a noncitizen,
in the face of the new welfare law and a separate measure moving through
Congress that would crack down on illegal immigration. Some want to protect
their rights and benefits, while others are eager to voice their opinions at the
ballot box.

The Shorefront Young Men's and Women's Hebrew Association in Brighton Beach
normally gets three or four calls a week from people wanting information about
citizenship classes. But the week after the President announced he would sign
the welfare bill, the center received 90 calls in one day, and there is a
waiting list of more than 200 people. "They all try to push their way into
class, but each person's situation is as desperate as the next," said Larry
Fish, coordinator of group's English language services.

But even as they try to ease fears, many immigrant advocates acknowledge that
they themselves are unclear about a law they find vague and complicated. Some
say it remains to be seen how many Federal benefits will become off-limits to
new immigrants. And they are concerned that some who remain eligible for
benefits might lose them prematurely or by mistake.

Many say they hope that the state will step in to offset the loss of Federal
aid. They cite the State Constitution, which requires the state to provide for
the "aid, care and support of the needy."

But for some immigrants, worry has already turned to despair. "A number of our
groups have reported that some of their elderly clients have said that they are
contemplating suicide," said Ms. McHugh of the New York Immigrant Coalition.
"They simply have no means to support themselves and do not want to die on the
streets."


A Helpless Feeling
No One to Lean On, Nowhere to Go

When How Chong Wong, 77, was a young girl in China, her family was the safety
net.

"If you can't eat rice, you eat rice soup, but you share and take care of your
parents," she said of those days. "But this generation is different. If there
are no benefits, there is no food, there is no shelter."

Mrs. Wong's children have families of their own, so she and her 81-year-old
husband live by themselves in a subsidized Brooklyn housing complex for the
elderly. She is in frail health, with high blood pressure and glaucoma. And her
husband's hearing and memory are fading. Sometimes he cannot hear her calling
him. Sometimes he buys groceries in Chinatown, then forgets them on a subway
car.

She skims the Chinese newspapers to learn of her fate as a legal immigrant. "I
don't understand politics that much," she said through a translator. "We hope
the Government will let us have our last years with secure income."

Chinese immigrants make up the third largest foreign-born group in New York
City, and their naturalization rate, about 56 percent, is relatively high, city
officials say. But some who work within the community say that there are many
elderly Chinese who have not become citizens because they do not speak English
well enough to pass the exam, or lack the desire to become citizens of a nation
that once barred their ancestors.

Many also feel they cannot challenge the Government. "They just feel powerless,"
said Hong Shing Lee, director of the City Hall Senior Center, the city's oldest
community center for elderly Chinese. "These people are generally coming from a
background where they have to tolerate what the Government wants to do to them."

But Mrs. Wong said she hoped she could appeal to the Government to keep the $800
in S.S.I. and $60 in food stamps they receive.  "My husband has become a
citizen, but I cannot," said Mrs. Wong, who can barely read and write in her
native tongue. "I tried to ask some of my friends to teach me English, but if
they tell me last night, I forget this morning."

She has visited China once since immigrating to the United States nine years
ago. But she does not believe she could live there again. "If this passes and
the Government said we could not get benefits, that means they're trying to get
us out." But, Mrs. Wong said, "I don't know where I'd be going."


Suspecting Bias
Feeling Unwanted, Some Long for Home

On a corner in Washington Heights, in upper Manhattan, is a newsstand where
people gather. They buy copies of Listin Diario and Ultima Hora, newspapers from
home, then stay awhile to muse about life in the Dominican Republic, and life
here.

For months, the Dominican presidential race triggered the most passion in their
street-corner debates. But now conversations inevitably turn to the welfare law
and the discrimination many believe inspired it.

"I think there's some kind of racism behind it," said Israel Peguero, a
cabdriver who came here in 1985. "There is a war against the Hispanic
community."

Dominicans are the largest immigrant group in New York City, their numbers
hovering at roughly half a million. And a strong bond remains between those who
have come to the United States and those who stayed behind. So on a recent
afternoon, a Dominican newspaper correspondent prepared to write an article on
how the welfare bill would affect his former countrymen as some Dominican
immigrants spoke of how, feeling unwelcome, they might return to the land of
their birth.

"Because the situation is going down in the U.S., Dominicans are looking back to
the country they came from like never before," said Effrem Ballenila, who helps
prepare Hispanic immigrants for citizenship exams. "They don't focus only on the
bill. They feel there's something behind it that's against the Latino
community."

Maria Lopez came to New York in 1988. "In the Dominican Republic it was not
possible to live a good life," she said. "We were only able to survive."

She found work as a machine operator in a Brooklyn factory. "At the beginning, I
was very excited," she said. "I started working. I could deal with everything
easier. But as time passed, it got difficult to get a good job. English is very
hard for me to learn. The money I was making was not good enough to pay my rent,
and to feed my children."

When the factory closed in 1992, she and her three children began to receive
public aid. The family lives off $686 in A.F.D.C. payments, $310 in food stamps,
and $50 a month in child support from her ex-husband.

Mrs. Lopez is taking citizenship classes, but her continuing struggle to learn
English has made naturalization seem a distant possibility. "I don't know what
my future's going to be like," said Mrs. Lopez, who said she worried most about
her children. "My main fear is going into the streets, and the possibility of
having no doctor for them."

So right now, she and many other mothers simply worry and wait. "All of us, when
we get together we talk about the problems we're facing," she said. "That we're
stuck, and there's no way to go further."


Stunned by Change
Legacy of Generosity Is Highly Regarded

The students sat in a classroom, speaking a new language at an old age, writing
in notebooks with weathered hands.

They were Jewish refugees, gathered at the Shorefront Young Men's and Young
Women's Hebrew Association in Brighton Beach to study to become American
citizens. In the Soviet Union, where they spent most of their lives they could
not speak Yiddish in peace, or worship at a synagogue. But they say the United
States gave them the freedom and the financial help to build new lives.

That is why many said they simply did not believe the welfare law would come to
pass. Many of the refugees insisted that the new law did not signify hostility
to them. "It is the economics," said Manya Drubetskya, 65, a refugee from
Ukraine. "The United States maybe does not have enough money."

Nearly three years ago, Emilya Shershevskaya, 72, and her daughter fled Belarus
with just enough money to pay for their passage. They were part of the flood of
immigrants from the former Soviet Union, most of them Jewish refugees, who came
to New York City by the tens of thousands in the 1990's. And she, too, has found
it hard to imagine that the stroke of a President's pen could eliminate a legacy
of generosity.

"It's impossible to believe that America is going to leave a 72-year-old woman
and her disabled daughter without a piece of bread," Mrs. Shershevskaya said
through a translator. "I can't believe that could happen."

But if it does, she will have few options. Mrs. Shershevskaya, a widow, lives
with her 48-year-old daughter, Rosalya, in a one-bedroom apartment near
Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. Her son, Ilya, works as a nursing home attendant, but
makes little money and has no medical benefits. And Rosalya could not pass the
citizenship test: she has the mental capacity of a 7-year-old child.

"My worry is not the present, because we make do," Mrs. Shershevskaya said.
"It's the future, because if anything is to happen, I'm not able to take care of
my daughter on my own. I'm not able to work, and my son is working but is not
able to support us."

Nearly every dime of the $556 in S.S.I. payments she and her daughter each
receive goes toward rent and bills. Food stamps, $138 worth, buy their
groceries.

But Mrs. Shershevskaya is not complaining. "I am very grateful to America for
sheltering us," she said. "We have safety and we have peace of mind. And I'm
always grateful for this because it's not something that America owes us. It's
something that the country does out of its goodness."

She has known persecution. She remembers how a bandit broke into a Jewish
family's home in Minsk and killed all of its members. She speaks of the night
four years ago when she and a friend cowered in her apartment as neighbors
banged on the door and yelled terrible things.

"No, I don't feel immigrants are persecuted," she said of the United States and
its various new laws. "But there is a sense we're not welcome. It's more a sense
I sometimes get when people look at me when I pass them on the street. There's
just a feeling of being unwelcome, when people seem like they move away from you
because you are from Russia."

It is subtle, but haunting all the same. "In Minsk, I heard it first hand, when
people would say 'You Jews should all go to Israel. What are you doing here?'

"Here, the feeling I sometimes get is not dissimilar."

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lining up at the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant
Rights, where officials say the number of people seeking naturalization has
doubled in the last two weeks; An immigrant seeking citizenship being
fingerprinted at the Northern Manhattan Coalition's office. (Photographs by
Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. B5)

TYPE: Special Report

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 4, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Texas Immigrants Worry As Cuts in Welfare Loom

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1414 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Aug. 29


Here on the Texas-Mexico border, officials have long had an emergency plan for
the occasional hurricane that rampages through this tropical stretch of the Rio
Grande Valley. But now they need an emergency response to another disturbance
that is bearing down on this area and others across the country: the new Federal
welfare legislation.

In poverty-plagued Hidalgo County, one of every 12 to 15 people -- county and
state officials are still trying to reconcile their figures -- is a legal
immigrant who stands to lose food stamps next year under the welfare overhaul
signed by President Clinton on Aug. 22. The law aims to save $55 billion in
Federal spending over the next six years, in large part by cutting benefits to
legal residents who are not American citizens.

In sheer numbers, places like El Paso, Houston and New York have more legal
immigrants facing welfare cuts. But measured proportionally, Census Bureau
statistics indicate that no area in the country would be harder hit by the new
law's cuts on immigrant benefits than this part of the border. And the cuts are
causing anxiety for thousands of people here and threatening to drain millions
of dollars from a county that is already one of the poorest in the United
States.

While the general intent of the law is to prod more people into work, local
officials and people who work in relief agencies here doubt that it will produce
the intended effect because the unemployment rate in Hidalgo County is 18.6
percent, more than three times the state and national averages.

All told, more than 32,000 legal immigrants will stop receiving food stamps by
next summer under the new welfare law. Combined with a smaller number of elderly
and disabled people who stand to lose Supplemental Security Income benefits, the
county expects an overall loss of $18 million to $31 million annually.

"That is simply a huge amount to this economy," said Paul M. Vazaldua Jr., the
official in charge of coordinating a response to the changes in welfare policy.
So far that response has mainly consisted of drafting pleas to President Clinton
and Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. "We are getting hammered," Mr. Vazaldua said.

Mr. Clinton has said repeatedly that he signed the welfare measure despite grave
reservations about the severity of cuts it imposes on legal immigrants, who in
many cases have lived in the United States for years and paid taxes. Many are
awaiting citizenship.

And though the President has pledged to try to soften the cuts if he is
re-elected, they are a major part of the budget savings under the new law, and
it is unclear whether he could succeed in getting Congress to go along with any
changes.

Governor Bush said this week that he is opposed to plans to cut off benefits for
elderly and disabled legal immigrants.

"We ought to take care of these people in the state of Texas," he said. But he
has not yet formally proposed a way to do so.

Still, as a general rule, the immediate impact of the new law is less crisis
than confusion. The law gives the state up to one year to go through a
complicated process of "recertifying" legal immigrants and determining whether
there are mitigating factors -- like a disability or long work history -- that
could allow them to keep their benefits.

So people here wait to see what will happen. Some of those most directly
affected by the cuts seem to be almost fatalistic about them. Between the cuts
being imposed by faraway Washington and the ripple effects felt along the border
of problems in the Mexican economy, there is a widespread feeling here that the
Rio Grande Valley is under siege.

"We're on quicksand between two countries here," said Ruben Cavazos Sr., the
owner of Ruben's Grocery, a market that has been something of an institution for
more than 20 years in a poor neighborhood in South McAllen. More than half the
customers routinely buy their groceries there with food stamps.

"We've been here for a long time, and our customers are loyal," said Mr.
Cavazos's son, Ruben Jr., a manager at the store. He said he, his parents and a
brother who also helps run the store are deeply worried about the effect of the
cuts on both their customers and the family business.

"And you think, well, people will always have to eat," he continued. "That seems
like a basic thing. But what if they simply have no way to pay for their food?"

Among customers at the store, feelings about the impending cuts range from
intense trepidation to an almost blithe, distant awareness that maybe something
happened in Washington recently that may or may not have an impact here someday.

"We haven't gotten any kind of letter or anything like that from the Government
yet, so I'm not too worried," said Maria Redondo, 56, whose retired husband, a
Mexican citizen who lived in McAllen off and on for 15 years working at various
jobs, and receives more than $400 a month in Social Security benefits.

Under the terms of the new welfare law, those payments could be cut off unless
her husband can produce documentation showing that he worked in the United
States during 40 different three-month periods or that he is disabled, say
officials with the Texas Department of Human Services in Austin.

"The whole thing is like a hurricane," Mrs. Redondo said of the welfare law with
a small laugh. "It may look like it's blowing this way, but it could turn around
and blow someplace else and no one will be hurt. That's what a lot of people are
hoping."

But other customers at Ruben's who are facing welfare cuts are clearly worried.

"I've heard they will take this away," said 24-year-old Flor Esthela Cantu, a
legal resident, holding the electronic "Lone Star" card that is now used in
place of the usual coupons by most food stamp recipients in Texas.

Pointing to her children, 16-month-old Sandra Leticia and 3-year-old Gustavo,
she added: "Things are just so tight already, I don't know how we would be able
to take care of them. I really don't. But we would have to try to adjust."

Even though her husband, who also is a legal resident, has found generally
steady work as a carpenter, and Mrs. Cantu occasionally makes money by selling
food she cooks in her home, the couple is still living well below the poverty
line and has received monthly food stamp benefits in recent months ranging from
$66 to $313.

Many people said the new welfare law would make them redouble their efforts to
become citizens, which would allow them to requalify for some benefits.

"But it's very expensive," said Susana Herrera, 49, who came across the border
from Matamoros 11 years ago and worked sporadically as a field picker. She
ticked off the costs -- $95 for the application, $5 for fingerprints, $12 for
photographs -- and seemed daunted by the prospect of ever having that much cash.

Thelma M. Garza, executive director of the United Way in Hidalgo County, said an
umbrella group of 55 relief agencies had already begun meeting in anticipation
of a growing demand for food from the indigent.

The Food Bank of the Rio Grande Valley, a nonprofit group partly financed by the
United Way, already dispenses about 200,000 meals a year. Asked how much she
thought the demand would increase, Ms. Garza replied: "That's simply a huge
question mark right now. But absolutely, we do expect it to grow."

Juan Antonio Flores, a policy planner for the Texas Department of Human
Services's Office of Immigration and Refugee Affairs, said the state is still
sifting through an interpretation of the new law. But its preliminary estimate
is that about 187,000 immigrants now in Texas legally will lose food stamps;
22,000 will lose welfare, and 53,160, all elderly or disabled, will be cut off
from Supplemental Security Income.

The food stamp cuts will hit hardest here in Hidalgo County, he said, with about
8 percent of county residents losing the benefits. By contrast, about 5 percent
of El Paso County's 590,000 people will be cut off, as will 1 percent of the 2.8
million people in Houston and surrounding Harris County.

In Hidalgo, the economic impact will be felt throughout the county, said Marcia
Kinsey, an analyst with the Center for Public Policy Priorities, an Austin-based
research organization that monitors issues affecting low-income Texans.

"Absolutely -- food stamps are not a vague public benefit," she said. "Whether
they wind up at a supermarket or a mom and pop store on the corner, they are
dollars that go directly into a community."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Flor Esthela Cantu, shopping last week at Ruben's Grocery in
McAllen, Tex., said she feared losing food stamp benefits under the new welfare
law. With her were her son, Gustavo, left, and daughter, Sandra Leticia. (Bruce
Lee Smith for The New York Times)(pg. A18)

Chart: "AT A GLANCE -- Hidalgo County: Portrait of Poverty" lists population,
poverty level, income and unemployment statistics fof Hidalgo County, Texas.
(Source: Texas Dept. of Human Services; Center for Public Policy
Priorities/Office of Benedictine Resource Center)(pg. A18)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Some Immigrants Begin to Lose Food Stamps Under New Law

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1434 words


New York and other states this week began the first cuts mandated by the new
Federal welfare law, starting to drop some legal immigrants from the food stamps
program.

Under provisions of the law signed by President Clinton last month, only
citizens and select categories of legal immigrants can receive food stamps. The
Department of Agriculture, which administers the food stamps program, will
impose financial penalties on states that fail to check the citizenship of
people applying for food stamps or to impose the stricter guidelines.

After months of partisan sniping over an issue that has loomed over the
Presidential campaign, legal immigrants in New York who walked into food stamp
offices from Union Square to Coney Island were faced with the news that unless
they were refugees or military personnel, or they could prove they had worked
for 10 years or more, they would not be eligible for the benefits.

Highlighting the confusion over the huge changes in welfare programs mandated by
the new law, officials in different states have come up with different official
starting dates for their new food stamp guidelines.

New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and California are among the states that
determined the rules for new food stamp applicants had to be put into effect no
later than Sept. 21 to avoid hefty Federal penalties, while other states have
decided to wait until October and next January. What happens when a noncitizen
applies this week for food stamps seems to depend on the training and directives
of individual county offices.

At least one worker at the 125th Street food-stamps office in Harlem said
yesterday that he was still uncertain what he was supposed to be telling people.
"We are still not sure what's going on," said the worker, who would not give his
name. "Our manager is supposed to meet with us to fill us in on what we are
supposed to tell the public."

States have equally varied interpretation of the mandates covering current food
stamp recipients. New York officials said they were starting to drop some
recipients from the rolls now as they come up for recertification. New Jersey,
for example, said it would take advantage of a six-month "window" before
dropping any current recipients.

City officials said workers in field offices have called in with technical
questions, but so far the new rules were taking effect smoothly.

Advocates for immigrants said, however that the directions handed down by the
Federal Government have been confusing and nearly impossible to decipher. They
estimate that between 100,000 and 200,000 of the 2 million people who are on
food stamps in New York State will eventually lose their benefits. The majority
of those recipients, 1.3 million people, live in New York City.

City officials said yesterday that they were grudgingly adhering to the new
policies and believed that the law's impact on legal immigrants was unfair and
inhumane.

"Immigrants are an integral, essential part of the fabric of our city," said
Marva L. Hammons, the city's Commissioner of Human Resources. "This
administration opposed the anti-immigrant bias of the law and we will continue
to do so."

Testifying at a hearing of the City Council's Subcommittee on Immigration, Ms.
Hammons said she was concerned that the new law, which overturns a city law that
prohibited city employees from turning in illegal immigrants who seek services,
would discourage many of those people from applying for services.

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has said he plans to sue the Federal Government to
block the reporting provision. City officials have said they will not give
information on illegal immigrants to the Immigration and Naturalization Service
until the suit has been resolved.

City and state officials said they have never before kept track of the
citizenship status of applicants and therefore have no estimates on how many
recipients would lose their benefits. Officials also would not say how many new
applicants have so far been affected by the new law, noting that the application
process usually takes at least a month before eligibility is determined.

The portion of food stamp beneficiaries expected to lose benefits varies around
the nation, with officials estimating that nearly 40 percent of beneficiaries in
Orange County, Calif., and about 2 percent of Connecticut beneficiaries will
lose benefits. New York officials say from 5 to 10 percent of state
beneficiaries will be affected.

In addition to checking the citizenship of new applicants, food stamp offices
across New York State must redetermine the eligibility of the 1 million
households already receiving food stamps. City and state officials said a
Federal waiver allowed them to defer the eligibility determination for some
current recipients for up to eight months.

Recipients who go to a food stamp office for their four-month recertification
appointment, for example, would get an eight-month grace period before they
would be re-evaluated for eligibility. Legal immigrants due for a 12-month
recertification, however, would be out of luck and would lose their benefits
immediately.

"We expect enormous confusion with this because it comes with the territory,"
said Liz Krueger, associate director of the Community Food Resource Center, a
nonprofit agency serving low-income communities.

She said that after just two days under the new rules, it was unlikely that any
families had been rejected yet. "It will be several months before we see the
real hit," she said. "But most immigrants are so confused and frightened by the
law that the actual numbers turned away will probably not be that high because
the message is going out into the immigrant communities that they shouldn't even
try to apply."

In New York City, the typical one-person household gets about $79 a month in
food stamps, and the average three-person family gets $240.

Richard E. Blum, a lawyer with the Legal Aid Society in New York City, said New
York and other states that have opted to begin the changes potentially could
illegally deny benefits to many legal immigrants because the Federal Government
has not provided adequate procedures for assessing the exemptions.

"They should wait to get proper instructions from the Federal Government before
they march forth with something they are ill equipped to handle," he said. "If
they have a choice of violating the law, I would like to see them err on the
side of not letting people starve rather than cutting off their food stamps
before they know what they're doing."

The director of financial assistance for the Social Services Agency for Orange
County in California, Angelo Doti, said the agency was continuing to take new
applications from legal immigrants but added that new applicants from legal
immigrants would be denied within the next few days. "We are training our staff
today as we speak," he said.

In New Jersey, state officials informed county officials about the new rules
last week, but training for county administrative supervisors was not held until
yesterday, making it unlikely that any legal immigrants would have been affected
yet. New Jersey officials also interpreted the status of current recipients
differently than New York did, concluding that all legal immigrants already
collecting food stamps would automatically get a six-month grace period.

Connecticut officials said the new policy kicked in on Monday, but also said
they were not sure if anyone had been denied food stamps yet. They estimated
that less than 2.5 percent of the families on welfare in Connecticut are legal
immigrants, less than a fourth of the New York percentage. There are about
55,760 families on welfare in Connecticut.

Florida officials have interpreted the law to mean that noncitizens who get food
stamps have until next January to receive benefits. And in Illinois, the plan is
"still up in the air," said Dean Schott, a spokesman for the Illinois Department
of Public Aid. "We're trying to figure out what the Federal Government policy
will be toward other states with a significant immigrant population, namely
California, New York and Texas," he said.

In Texas, Sharon Heinemann, a spokeswoman for the State Human Services
Department, said the agency had decided to refer legal immigrants who might
qualify under the 10-year work rule to the Social Security Administration, but
was still trying to determine how to define the category.

"You can well imagine this is something we're implementing even as we're still
sorting out the law itself," she said. "We're kind of learning as we go."


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Law Sowing Fear and Confusion at Welfare Offices

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

SECTION: Section B;   Page 3;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1362 words


Workers on the front lines of welfare reform, under new orders to deny food
stamps to innumerable legal immigrants who had previously qualified for them,
are finding that translating Federal law into reality is not coming easily.

Field workers are befuddled about what to do when, and some are fighting their
torment about the justness of it all. Recipients, some newly ineligible, are
showing up in pursuit of clarity and sympathetic ears.

"It's rough," said a harried worker yesterday morning at the jampacked
food-stamps office on East 16th Street in Manhattan. "We don't know what we're
doing. We're in utter confusion."

Sonia Alava, who immigrated from Ecuador as a child in 1949 but never became a
citizen and has worked only sporadically, was stunned to learn at the Coney
Island food-stamp office of the new rules, which might erase her benefits.

"My son is very, very sick," she said. "My husband is out of work. If I'm no
longer eligible for food stamps, you're going to hear me scream."

Maria Victoria Reroma, an immigrant from the Philippines who lives in
Belleville, N.J., said at a benefits office in Newark that her 70-year-old
mother, who is not a citizen and has never worked in this country, may return
home.

"She's very scared," she said. "She talked to a lawyer, who said she might be
able to become a citizen in three months. But she's thinking she might be better
off to go home."

At food-stamp outposts throughout the New York region and in other states, there
seemed to be more confusion than certainty, more anguish than mute acceptance,
about the first cuts ordered by the new Federal welfare law.

A raft of changes in welfare provisions are mandated by the measure signed last
month by President Clinton, but the first round is to eliminate food stamps for
legal immigrants who are not citizens, unless they are refugees or military
personnel or can prove they have worked for at least 10 years.

While states have drawn varying conclusions about what they must do, New York,
New Jersey and Connecticut are among those that decided that the guidelines for
new food-stamp applicants had to be put in place this week to escape Federal
penalties.

A spokeswoman for the city's Human Resources Administration said that the new
procedures were sent to field offices on Friday, but that workers probably were
not using them yet because managers did not receive training in the procedures
until yesterday. The managers are now to begin educating their workers.

The managers were advised to suggest to field workers that they not bluntly tell
applicants they are no longer eligible, but rather urge them to find out whether
they qualify under an exemption.

Advocates for immigrants estimate that 100,000 to 200,000 of the two million
people on food stamps in New York State will lose their benefits under the new
law. Since it takes at least a month to process an application, it may be a
while before denials are issued.

Visits to food-stamp offices around the nation yesterday suggested that many
field workers were having a hard time of it. While managers said they were
starting to put the rules into effect, no one at several offices visited could
point to an example of an applicant who had been rejected.

"We don't have the information yet," said the assistant manager at the office in
Long Island City, who would not give her name. "We can't tell you anything."

Many workers said they were troubled by the welfare changes, pointing out that
they were the ones who saw the actual faces of need in chairs before them. "I
believe it's going to be hard for them to prove 10 years of work," said a worker
in the Long Island City office, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "I believe
it's fair and it's not fair.

"It's not fair because some people come here and though they have worked nine
years, this will limit their ability to get food stamps. They have families to
support and they might become homeless. On the other side, the Government has to
balance what it has to balance."

Recipients confused about their fate were turning up at the office in search of
answers. There were many confusing possibilities, including those in which
parents and grandparents lose benefits, but their children retain them.

Jesusita Solares, 52, went to the Long Island City office yesterday morning. She
is a legal immigrant from the Dominican Republic who lives in Queens with her
seven children. She said her husband deserted her a year and a half ago. She
relies on food stamps to put meals on the table.

She is not a citizen, but she said that she worked for 11 years in a factory
trimming threads from clothing. If she can prove her work history, she will
qualify for food stamps.

"I see on the television that this food stamp program will not continue," she
said. "I understand some things and I don't understand others, so I don't know
what to do."

She was fearful of losing her benefits. "I want to work," she said, "but with
what I'll earn, how am I going to pay the rent and provide food for seven
children?"

She said she wanted to become a citizen, but said her English was bad. She said
she was enrolled in a program to learn English.

In Hudson County, N.J., which estimates it has the 10th-largest immigrant
population of any county in the country, Carol Ann Wilson, the director of the
Department of Human Services, said her workers would give recipients who are cut
off at least a month's worth of stamps before halting their benefits. She also
said her staff would not turn in illegal immigrants, as the new law requires.
"We still have compassion here," she said.

In some states, food-stamp recipients were already hearing about loss of
eligibility. In Santa Maria, Tex., a 47-year-old migrant worker, who would only
give his name as Juan, said Sylvia Galvan, his caseworker at the Department of
Human Services, called him on Tuesday to tell him he might no longer qualify.

He said he hoped he would be exempt because he has worked for more than 10
years, though Ms. Galvan said if his bosses did not report his earnings, he
would not be able to prove his work history. "It's O.K. to have this rule," Juan
said, "but there are no jobs."

At the food-stamp office on Coney Island in Brooklyn, Svetlana Vokyo was not
only unclear about the new Federal welfare law, she was unaware that there was a
new Federal welfare law.

Ms. Vokyo, who lives in Brighton Beach, said that she left a difficult life in
Russia four months ago. She was at the office yesterday to recertify her
benefits.

"I need a little more time to find a job to support my little 8-year-old
daughter," Ms. Vokyo said. "If we don't get food stamps, it will be much worse.
The future of my daughter will be much worse."

A caseworker at the office, who would not give her name, said that few people
knew about the rules, but predicted a backlash once they understood them. "The
masses will be revolting," she said.

At the food-stamp office in Borough Park, Brooklyn, Juliana Rodriguez, 28, was
in doubt about her future. She said she went to the United States from the
Dominican Republic 13 years ago and has received food stamps for the last four
months as a legal immigrant. She said her husband, Felix Valdez, makes little
money manufacturing clothes, and they have two young children.

She said she hoped to become a citizen, perhaps as soon as next month, but
feared she would forfeit her food stamps if unable to do so.

"I hear a lot of people saying that if you don't become a citizen you're not
going to be eligible for a lot of social services," she said.

Some of the other applicants at the food-stamp offices, whose continuation in
the program was insured by their citizenship, had mixed feelings about the new
law.

Jill Perlmutter, 33, who is raising an 8-year-old daughter alone and is a
citizen, said at the Long Island City office, "Women with children who have kids
and need it should get food stamps.

"But sometimes, I see girls in there with brand new clothes and their nails done
and all these brand-new things while I'm trying to figure out how I'm going to
get the second half of the month's food in my home."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juliana Rodriguez, 28, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic,
and her son Abel, 3, yesterday at the Brooklyn welfare offices. She fears she
may lose her eligibility for food stamps and has applied for citizenship.
(Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Covering Up Cruelty

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 33;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


The immigration bill just passed by the House has dozens of provisions to harass
and torment legal immigrants -- but hardly anyone knows that. The bill's
sponsors have covered up its harsh character by disguising it as a crackdown on
illegal immigrants.

A glaring example of the cover-up was a letter to the editor published the other
day in The New York Times. It was from Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of
Texas, a principal author of the bill.

A new procedure for people seeking asylum from persecution strikes "a
common-sense balance," Mr. Smith said. "The only people with anything to fear
from this legislation are those who might wish to abuse our immigration
loopholes."

To test Mr. Smith's balm, consider the case of Fauziya Kassindja, the young
woman who fled from Togo to escape genital mutilation. She sought asylum here
but was turned down on arrival and again by an immigration judge. After a year
in detention a dedicated lawyer took her case to the Board of Immigration
Appeals, which granted her asylum.

Under Mr. Smith's bill, Ms. Kassindja would have had at most one week to appeal
to an immigration judge -- without a lawyer, and probably by telephone. She
could not have taken her case on to the Board of Immigration Appeals. After the
immigration judge turned her down, she would have been sent back at once to
Togo, and butchery.

That is what Lamar Smith calls "a common-sense balance."

Mr. Smith's letter also defended the bill's sweeping provisions that close the
courts to lawsuits challenging policies and practices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service. Such class actions, he said, are "brought mostly on
behalf of illegal immigrants."

In fact, lawsuits of that kind have been aimed at systematic discrimination by
the I.N.S. One, for example, found that the I.N.S. granted virtually all
Nicaraguan applications for asylum during the 1980's and none from El Salvador
or Guatemala -- where refugees were fleeing right-wing governments that we
supported. The Bush Administration settled that case, stopping the
discriminatory practice. Others have been of like character. The suits were not
"on behalf of illegal immigrants."

Another provision of Mr. Smith's bill would introduce a class element into our
immigration law. It limits to better-off people the right to bring in members of
their immediate families.

Anyone who wanted to sponsor a parent or grown child as an immigrant would have
to have an income of at least twice the poverty level for his family, including
the immigrant. In 1994, according to I.N.S. figures, 44 percent of American
citizens who sponsored such immigrants did not have that much income.

To bring in a spouse or minor child, the bill requires income of at least 140
percent of the poverty level. In 1994, 36 percent of Americans who were sponsors
in such cases did not meet that test.

A highly regarded immigration law specialist, Prof. Stephen Legomsky of
Washington University in St. Louis, wrote President Clinton about the bill this
week. He had always tried to be detached, Professor Legomsky said, and he did
not want to be hyperbolic, but this bill was "one of the most radical pieces of
immigration legislation ever."

"I could go on and on listing some of the barbaric cruelties that this bill
would bring about," he said. "It is unrelenting."

Professor Legomsky was urging the President to veto the bill if it reaches his
desk. Mr. Clinton has called for some changes in the bill. But he likes to sign
legislation, as on counterterrorism and welfare, that he knows is gravely flawed
but that will make him look tough.

The question is whether the Senate will allow the bill to pass. Illegal
immigration is a hot-button issue, especially in California. Senator Dianne
Feinstein of that state has announced that she will support the bill as a way to
fight illegal immigration. Some of her constituents may remember that she wanted
women like Fauziya Kassindja to be denied asylum without a fair hearing or
appeal, and sent home to be mutilated.

I think most Americans would reject the cruelties in this bill if they were
informed. A President or a few courageous senators could inform them.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Here's Something to Fear in Immigration Bill

SECTION: Section A;  Page 32;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words


To the Editor:

Representative Lamar Smith (letter, Sept. 25) accuses Anthony Lewis of
exaggerating the court-stripping effects of the pending immigration bill. In
fact, Mr. Lewis understated the effects of the legislation.

One provision of the bill, for example, misleadingly labeled "exclusive
jurisdiction," would in fact bar any court from hearing any challenge to
decisions by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to commence and
adjudicate proceedings. Under this provision, literally construed, if the I.N.S.
adopted a policy to selectively seek to deport only black aliens, no court could
hear a challenge to its actions.

For almost 10 years I have been representing eight immigrants in Los Angeles
whom the I.N.S. has been trying to deport because of their association with one
of the constituent groups of the Palestine Liberation Organization. The courts
have enjoined the I.N.S. from proceeding, finding that the agency selectively
enforced the deportation laws against my clients in retaliation for their
peaceful, First Amendment-protected activities -- like distributing literature,
holding demonstrations and raising money for humanitarian aid.

The "exclusive jurisdiction" provision seeks to strip judicial authority to
review even such blatantly unconstitutional violations.

DAVID COLE
Washington, Sept. 26, 1996

The writer is a professor of law at Georgetown University.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

HOUSE BACKS DEAL ON BUDGET FOR '97 IN BIPARTISAN VOTE

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1486 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 28


The House of Representatives tonight overwhelmingly approved a budget deal for
1997 that yields to President Clinton on immigration issues and on some spending
priorities but holds fast to Republican demands for $30 billion in overall cuts.

The measure passed on a vote of 370 to 37 after a three-hour debate. It was
approved with the support of 202 Republicans, 167 Democrats and the lone
independent in the House. There were 24 Republicans and 13 Democrats on the
opposing side.

The Senate is expected to approve the budget deal on Monday and the White House
has indicated that President Clinton will sign the bill as soon as it reaches
his desk, likely later that day.

The House vote came about 12 hours after Congressional leaders and White House
negotiators announced that they had reached an agreement on the budget early
this morning.

The deal came after a week of intense negotiations that were capped by three
sessions that stretched into the early-morning hours.

The toughest negotiations involved the immigration bill, which will also be
folded into the larger measure.  The White House had raised objections to
provisions involving legal immigrants, particularly one that would have denied
medical services for legal aliens suffering from AIDS. [Page 28.]

Early today, the Republicans backed away from that provision. They also agreed
to loosen other demands, including one that would have barred legal immigrants
who were poor enough to qualify for food stamps from acting as sponsors to other
newcomers. Other, more technical differences in the details of some provisions
concerning benefits remained under discussion.

At the heart of the overall budget pact is an agreement on the last 6 of 13
spending bills that cover the departments and agencies of the Federal
Government. Those spending bills, along with other proposals, including one to
acquire new Federal parks and another to keep people convicted of domestic
violence from owning guns, will be folded into a catchall measure known as an
omnibus bill that would allow the 104th Congress to complete its work and
adjourn.

The total amount of the spending bill for domestic and military programs is $450
billion. Republicans said the agreement keeps them on their glide toward a
balanced budget by 2002 with $53 billion in cuts over the 1996 and 1997 budget
years.

The House and the Senate began debate on the omnibus bill this afternoon. The
1997 budget year begins at 12:01 A.M. Tuesday.

It took seven months of stopgap spending measures and two partial Government
shutdowns before the Republican Congressional majority and the White House and
Democrats could agree to the 1996 budget.

Both sides had agreed early this year to avoid a repeat of last year's showdown.
But the 1997 agreement is as fraught with politics as it is with fiscal
considerations.

The accord was worked out, on the Republican side, by Representative Dick Armey
of Texas, the House majority leader, and the two chairmen of the appropriations
committees, Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon and Representative Robert L.
Livingston of Louisiana. Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, led
the Democratic side in the three nights of marathon talks.

Speaker Newt Gingrich this morning called it a "historic occasion" and cited
Republicans' success in cutting $53 billion in spending over two years while
protecting military spending and health research.

Mr. Armey said the bill meant the 104th Congress ended work "ahead of schedule
and under budget."

In a statement, the Republican leadership said, "This budget, which spends even
less this Congress than last, reflects continued Republican efforts to cut
wasteful Washington spending and end the duplication in Federal programs."

Campaigning today in Providence, R.I., President Clinton said the agreement was
a good example of what cooperation can bring.

"It is good for America because it continues to move us toward a balanced budget
while protecting, not violating, our values," he said.

Senator Hatfield, who is retiring this fall, called the negotiations "the most
bipartisan in my memory."

But in Washington, White House aides were crowing that the Administration had
received virtually everything it had demanded.

The Republicans agreed to shift an extra $6.5 billion Mr. Clinton had demanded
for various programs, including $1.1 billion for counterterrorism; $650 million
for help fighting fires in the Western United States; $270 million for the
Hurricane Fran relief effort; $250 million for anti-drug efforts.

Republicans said that spending was offset by shifting $3.1 billion from the Bank
Insurance Fund and the Savings Association Insurance Fund, $2.9 billion in
broadcast spectrum sales and $1 billion from the military.

"The President is obviously pleased both with the nature of the agreement in
restoring these funds that he thinks are crucial for the future of the country
but also the fact that we were able to work this out in a cooperative bipartisan
fashion," said Lawrence Haas of the White House Office of Management and Budget.

Over all, the bill provides about $245 billion for the military and $200 billion
for nonmilitary spending.

The spending bills apply to myriad defense, social, education, labor,
environment, housing and other programs, so-called discretionary spending that
is under the jurisdiction of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees.
Spending on entitlement programs like Medicare and Social Security are outside
the committees' control.

The Appropriations Committees and their 13 subcommittees have jurisdiction over
about a third of the Federal budget.

President Clinton has already signed four spending bills covering military
construction, agriculture, the District of Columbia and the budget for Congress.
And three other spending bills are on his desk, for energy and water,
transportation and housing and veterans.

The omnibus bill includes the six remaining spending bills covering the
departments of Labor and Health and Human Services; Interior; Treasury and
Postal; Foreign Operations; Commerce, Justice and State, and National Security.

The budget agreement calls for the elimination of about 300 minor Federal
programs, projects and grants.

There is a 3 percent pay raise for members of the military and money to continue
the troop deployment in Saudi Arabia.

Republicans also agreed to add 1,000 border patrol agents, 300 more than the
President requested, and to allocate $500 million to reimburse states for the
cost of jailing illegal aliens.

The Republicans had earlier this month agreed to strip from the bill one of the
most sensitive provisions, which would have barred illegal immigrant children
from attending public schools.

Speaker Gingrich conceded that Republicans had given way on some points, but
said that it was worth it to win approval of a "strong, strong" measure to block
illegal immigration.

The bill also extends the Brady Bill, the mandatory waiting period for the
purchase of a handgun first approved in 1994.

With the legislative session drawing to a close, the spending bill agreed to
overnight became surrounded by a host of other proposals whose sponsors hoped to
tack them on to the one measure considered certain to pass.

Some were included, like a proposal to ban people convicted of crimes of
domestic violence from owning guns. While the idea had broad bipartisan support,
Republicans objected that it was drawn too broadly, to include "minor
misdemeanors." Democrats resisted the change -- in part, it seemed, to gain
leverage on other points -- but agreed this morning to apply the ban only to
people convicted of more serious misdemeanors relating to domestic violence.

Mr. Haas said it would provide $35 million for a water-treatment project in
Boston harbor that has become an issue in the close Massachusetts Senate
election, and money for anti-drug efforts, which have become an issue in the
Presidential campaign.

The deal also included money for redeploying troops in the Persian Gulf to more
secure quarters after bombings in Saudi Arabia and money for restoring Amtrak
routes that had earlier been threatened.

Negotiators also addressed an issue that has frustrated Congress and the banking
industry for months, agreeing to changes to replenish the insurance fund that
guarantees deposits at savings and loans.

The House this evening approved a pared down parks and public land bill that
includes a provision authorizing $17.5 million for the purchase of Sterling
Forest, a 17,500-acre tract of wilderness and watershed property staddling the
New York and New Jersey border.

The 1997 budget deal includes a $9 million to let the Interior Department make
the initial payment. The parks bill authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to
sell unreserved, unappropriated Federal lands and use the revenue to pay the
balance in the 1998 budget year.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 30, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Has Record of Success

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 161 words


To the Editor:

Your Sept. 19 editorial "A Dangerous Immigration Bill" and Anthony Lewis's
columns of Sept. 23 and 27 called into question the integrity of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service and also failed to take into account the improvements
to our nation's asylum system that we have made in recent years under President
Clinton's leadership.

For years the asylum system had been a magnet for fraud, which provided few
guarantees for those fleeing persecution in their home countries. The I.N.S.
corrected these problems. Since 1993, the Administration has reversed decades of
neglect of our immigration laws by improving the enforcement of the laws along
the border and in the workplace, removing record numbers of criminal and other
illegal immigrants from our communities and prisons, and taking steps to improve
the functioning of our legal immigration system.

DORIS M. MEISSNER
Commissioner, I.N.S.
Washington, Sept. 26, 1996

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SENATE APPROVES A BIG BUDGET BILL, BEATING DEADLINE

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30


The Senate passed a catchall, end-of-session bill this evening that includes
nearly $400 billion in military and domestic budget appropriations for 1997, $30
billion in savings, major changes to immigration laws and a hodgepodge of other
legislation.

The 84-to-15 Senate vote, only hours before the next budget year began at 12:01
A.M. on Tuesday, means Federal agencies will have the money they need to operate
for the next year, without the shutdowns that interrupted many agencies last
year and won Republicans the enmity of many voters.

Democrats crowed that Republican reluctance to force another impasse had led
them to give way to many of their spending requests.

The House of Representatives had voted 370 to 37 on late Saturday night to
approve the package, known as an omnibus bill, and then adjourned.

The Senate had expected to follow House members out to the campaign trail after
voting on the budget package. But they bogged down today over fights over a
parks and public-lands bill and a bill reauthorizing the Federal Aviation
Administration. [Page A16.]

But the Senate put those squabbles aside temporarily to approve the budget.
While the Republican majority got its way on the overall size of the budget, the
Clinton Administration was able to force Congressional leaders to retreat on
some immigration issues, which were also a part of the bill, and on cuts for
some of the President's favorite programs.

The White House has said President Clinton will sign the bill, and the
Administration wasted little time today in trying to build political capital on
the legislation.

"It's clearly a victory for the President and the priorities that he has been
fighting for four years," Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, told
reporters at a briefing.

Mr. Panetta took the occasion to fire a political broadside at Mr. Clinton's
chief rival for the Presidency, Bob Dole, the Republican candidate and former
Senate majority leader.

Asked if he thought Republicans and the White House would have come to an
agreement as easily if Mr. Dole, who retired from the Senate earlier this year,
were still majority leader, Mr. Panetta replied: "I'll let the American people
make that judgment. It is pretty clear that when Bob Dole did leave, we were
able to make some very successful efforts, working with the new leadership on
the Senate side as well as the House in trying to get minimum wage done, get
Kennedy-Kassebaum done, getting the welfare reform bill done, and now getting
this large appropriations agreement enacted along with immigration reform."

The Republicans fired their own shots in a statement from the Senate Republican
Policy Committee.

Noting that Republicans had cut $53 billion from discretionary spending in the
1996 and 1997 budgets, they accused Mr. Clinton and the Democrats of standing in
the way of even deeper cuts from mandatory spending, which accounts for about
two-thirds of the Federal budget.

"President Clinton and his party in Congress have refused for four years to make
or allow others to make those needed changes that could balance the Federal
budget for the first time in a generation," the Republicans said. "If President
Clinton would agree to allow the Federal budget to be balanced, Congress could
still do it next year."

The bill that passed this evening bundles the last 6 of 13 spending bills for
the 1997 fiscal year, providing $244 billion for the military and about $138
billion for nonmilitary spending.

The total appropriations for 1997 for discretionary and mandatory programs is
$600 billion -- the $244 billion for defense and $356 billion spread among the
13 appropriations bills.

President Clinton has already signed into law five spending bills covering
military construction, agriculture, the District of Columbia, the Congressional
budget and housing and veterans programs. There are two other spending bills on
Mr. Clinton's desk -- for energy and water, and for transportation -- that the
Administration has said he will sign.

But political and policy differences between the Republican majority in Congress
and the Clinton Administration stalled action on the last six spending bills.
That impasse affected the proposed budgets of some of the largest and most
expensive departments and agencies of the Federal Government: Defense; Labor and
Health and Human Services ($71.1 billion); Interior ($12.4 billion); Treasury
and the Postal Service ($11.5 billion); Commerce, Justice and State ($24.5
billion); and foreign operations ($12.1 billion).

After a week of negotiations, Mr. Panetta and the Republican Congressional
leaders -- Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senator Trent Lott, who succeeded Mr. Dole
as the majority leader -- announced on Saturday morning that they had agreed on
a budget deal.

The Republicans refused to give up on their goal of cutting $30 billion from
1997 spending. With the $23 billion that they cut in the 1996 budget, it keeps
them on their schedule to balance the budget by 2002.

But the Republicans yielded to the White House on other issues, and Mr. Panetta
boasted today that he had "some leverage" because of the 1996 budget fight.

"That confrontation, I think, clearly was in the minds of those who were sitting
down at the table," he said. "They did not want to repeat the same mistakes that
had been made."

They agreed to Administration demands for $6.5 billion for various domestic
projects -- $1.1 billion for anti-terrorism programs; $650 million to help fight
wildfires in the West; $400 million for the Hurricane Fran relief effort; $123
million for troop deployment in Saudi Arabia.

That spending is to be offset by $2.9 billion from the sale of broadcast
frequencies, $3.1 billion from two programs that provide protection for deposits
in banks and savings and loans, and $1 billion from military spending.

At the Administration's insistence, the Republicans also dropped some parts of
the immigration bill that would have reduced or denied benefits, like AIDS
services, for legal immigrants. Republicans were also unable to get stricter
conditions imposed for sponsoring legal immigrants.

And the package includes White House-backed legislation that would prohibit gun
ownership or possession for anybody convicted of spousal or child abuse or any
other form of domestic violence.

The bill authorizes a study on adding tracing agents to explosives, a move that
Federal law-enforcement officials have said would help them determine
responsibility for bombings. The legislation would not require explosives
manufacturers to follow the findings of the study.

Meanwhile, the long impasse over legislation on parks and other public lands
continued as the Senate neared adjournment with the bill's prospects still in
doubt. Among other things, the legislation would allow the Federal Government to
help pay for the acquisition of Sterling Forest, an undeveloped tract along the
New York and New Jersey border.

The House overwhelmingly approved the bill on Saturday after stripping away
provisions that the Administration opposed on environmental grounds. But Senator
Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, was holding up Senate action on that
version today, seeking to restore some of the contested provisions.

Any changes in the House version would only further complicate the prospects of
passage so late in the session, and Senator Murkowski was under considerable
pressure to drop his objections so that uncontroversial provisions favored by
lawmakers from dozens of other states could be approved.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Following are some highlights of the fiscal 1997 spending bill the
Senate passed last night. The new fiscal year begins today.

COMMERCE -- The National Institute of Standards and Technology will receive $543
million, about $77 million less than the current level but $75 million more than
originally passed in the House. Most of the increase is for high-technology
programs.

MILITARY -- A total of $244 billion will be allotted for military programs, $9.4
billion more than requested by President Clinton and $1.9 billion more than in
1996 budget year. The amount includes $44 billion for weapons procurement, to
speed purchase of anti-missile systems, $800 million for two attack submarines
and other major systems. It also continues financing for military operations in
Bosnia and southern Iraq.

EDUCATION -- There is $28.8 billion total for programs, $3.6 billion more than
in 1996. That money includes $7.6 billion for college student aid, a $1.3
billion increase from fiscal 1996. There is also an appropriation of $262
million, or 40 percent more than last year's $188 million, for bilingual and
immigrant education programs.

BANKING -- The insurance fund that guarantees deposits at savings and loans
would be replenished with a one-time levy on the industry plus a hefty
contribution by commercial banks to help pay off bonds floated for the thrift
bailout. In return, banks got numerous small items of regulatory relief but no
new powers.

LABOR -- Of a total of $8.7 billion, $463 million, or a 24 percent increase in
financing over last year, has been agreed upon to finance the Community Service
Employment Program for Older Americans, which provides part-time employment for
underemployed, low-income people ages 55 and older.

LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION -- The agency is to receive an additional $5 million,
or a total of $283 million, to provide lawyers and legal assistance for the
poor. But it maintains the restrictions on the use of agency money, prohibiting
abortion litigation, representation of illegal immigrants, lobbying and bringing
class-action suits.

HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES -- Of $187.4 billion for the 1997 fiscal year, the
National Institutes of Health received a 7 percent increase to $12.7 billion;
Head Start got an increase of $412 million, to $4 billion.

LAW ENFORCEMENT -- The Justice Department got $16.4 billion, an increase of $1.7
billion. And $396 million would be used to build Federal prisons, $100 million
more than President Clinton's had sought. The Drug Enforcement Administration is
to get $1 billion, more than President Clinton had sought or Congress initially
had approved.

IMMIGRATION -- Financing for the Immigration and Naturalization Service would
rise to $3.1 billion, or $500 million more than last year.

NATIONAL PARKS -- Interior Department programs received $6.18 billion, or $22
million less than in fiscal year 1996, and $421 million less than requested by
President Clinton. The National Park Service would receive $1.4 billion, or $47
million more than current financing. (pg. A22)
Chart: "HIGHLIGHTS: The Senate's Bill for Fiscal '97"

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 3, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Legal Immigrants, a Welfare Reprieve

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2


Congress has given a reprieve to legal immigrants who receive food stamps,
allowing them to stay on the rolls until April 1, and a few months longer in
many cases, despite provisions of the new welfare law.

Some states, including New York and Virginia, had already told some immigrants
that they would no longer receive food stamps because of the law. But efforts to
carry out the restrictions caused much confusion, as officials in various states
set different deadlines.

By extending the deadline at least to April 1, Congress tried to clear up the
confusion. The dispensation for immigrants was in an omnibus spending bill that
President Clinton signed on Monday. White House officials insisted on the
change, and Republicans did not oppose it.

John L. Hilley, the chief White House lobbyist, said today: "We feel really,
really good about this provision. We are grateful that members of Congress, on a
bipartisan basis, did the right thing."

When he signed the welfare bill on Aug. 22, Mr. Clinton said the cuts in
benefits for legal immigrants were "far too deep" and said he would urge
Congress to "change what is wrong." Mr. Hilley said the extra time would give
the Administration "a chance to rethink some of the provisions on legal
immigrants."

About 1.8 million of the 25 million food stamp recipients are legal immigrants.
The Congressional Budget Office estimates that one million of them will lose
food stamps, while 800,000 will qualify for exemptions, mainly because they are
refugees or have worked in the United States for at least 10 years.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat who voted against the welfare bill,
said that the latest measure, delaying the effect on some immigrants, was just
"a patch over one of many flaws" in the statute.

"It may have occurred to the negotiators that stories about hungry legal
immigrants would play poorly over the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays," said
Mr. Leahy, a longtime defender of nutrition programs. "Having to count this as a
victory for hungry people is an emblem of how misguided the welfare bill is."

Congress's action does nothing to help legal immigrants who file new
applications for food stamps. They will be ineligible, in most cases. But it
does help those already on the rolls, saying they may not be disqualified for
their lack of American citizenship until April. State officials must reassess
the eligibility of all such immigrants between April 1 and Aug. 22, 1997.

The action by Congress follows a nasty political spat between the Clinton
Administration and Gov. Pete Wilson of California. On Sept. 19, Mr. Wilson, a
Republican, issued and then rescinded an order instructing county officials to
cut off food stamps for most legal immigrants starting Sept. 22. The Governor
reversed himself after several prominent California Democrats complained to the
White House and the regional director of the Federal food stamp program told
California that it did not have to comply "until we provide further
clarification."

Sean T. Walsh, press secretary to Governor Wilson, said the mixed signals made
the Federal Government look like "a bunch of buffoons."

About 400,000 legal immigrants receive food stamps in California. Mr. Walsh said
the new law extending the deadline for them "will allow California to make a
smooth transition."

Mr. Wilson has long wanted to restrict benefits for illegal and legal
immigrants, and some Democrats suggested that he was trying to embarrass Mr.
Clinton by cutting benefits for tens of thousands of needy people a few weeks
before the Nov. 5 election.

But Mr. Walsh said it was the White House that was playing politics because it
did not want to anger liberal Democrats who abhor the welfare law and its
restrictions on benefits for immigrants. Some of those Democrats expressed their
concerns to Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, who has been
mentioned as a possible Democratic candidate for governor of California in 1998.

The food stamp program is financed entirely with Federal money and is supposed
to be uniform throughout the country. Benefits average $73 a month per person,
roughly $2.40 a day.

Under the welfare law, noncitizens will generally become ineligible for food
stamps and Supplemental Security Income, but states are allowed to continue
public assistance, Medicaid and social services for those who were in the United
States on Aug. 22. Immigrants may also qualify for benefits if they have worked
in the United States for 10 years, and the children and spouses of such workers
may also qualify.

But the Social Security Administration, which keeps track of work histories,
does not yet have a way to provide large amounts of its data to state and local
officials who need the information to decide if immigrants have worked long
enough to qualify for benefits.

"We expect to have the capability to provide large volumes of data
electronically by the end of the year," said Philip A. Gambino, a Social
Security spokesman.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Seize Control of Immigration Policy Now

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 101 words


To the Editor:

Samuel G. Freedman (Op-Ed, Oct. 8) notes correctly that Congress "relaxed"
immigration quotas in 1965. What he does not mention is that this effect was
unintentional; Congress had promised repeatedly that the new law would not
increase immigration. Legal immigration has tripled since, and immigration
advocates like Mr. Freedman argue that the error is irreversible, since these
new voters will soon be so numerous that they will scare politicians away from
reform. Unless we act quickly, we could lose control of our immigration policy.

JOHN BROCK
New York, Oct. 9, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Under New Law, Nursing Homes Might Reject Legal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1177 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


For the first time, nursing homes are checking the immigration status of
applicants for admission, and they expect to exclude many elderly immigrants who
will become ineligible for Medicaid because of the new welfare law.

Medicaid is unavailable to most immigrants entering the United States after Aug.
22, the date President Clinton signed the welfare bill.

Many nursing home residents have qualified for Medicaid because they received
Supplemental Security Income, a form of cash assistance for the needy aged,
blind and disabled. But the welfare law eliminates Supplemental Security Income
for most legal immigrants, including many already in this country.

While no patient is known to have been rejected to date, Cynthia Rudder,
director of the Nursing Home Community Coalition of New York State, a consumer
group, said she was deeply concerned about what would happen to those who lost
Medicaid coverage. And Linda Keegan, vice president of the American Health Care
Association, representing 11,000 nursing homes, said she shared that concern.
Ms. Rudder said, "These are elderly, chronically ill people who would lose not
only their health care, but also a place to live."

The Government does not have reliable data on the number of immigrants in
nursing homes because the homes had no particular need to collect and update
such information. "Up till now, Medicaid never distinguished between the legal
resident and the citizen," said Lee Partridge, coordinator of the National
Association of State Medicaid Directors.

LuMarie Polivka-West, policy director of the Florida Health Care Association,
said the restrictions could affect 2,880 elderly immigrants in nursing homes in
the Miami area. "Many have been in the United States for some time but will have
difficulty obtaining citizenship because they have Alzheimer's disease or other
forms of dementia," she said.

Martin E. Casper, executive director of Greynolds Park Manor, a 324-bed nursing
home in North Miami Beach, said: "I don't want to put some poor elderly lady or
gentleman in a gurney and wheel them out to the parking lot of my nursing home
and say, 'You must stay there because I'm not being paid.' But noncitizens in
need of skilled nursing-facility care will have a harder time being admitted.
Nursing homes won't take them if there is no source of payment. I'm not going to
admit them. No businessman would."

Gary D. Macomber, executive vice president of the California Association of
Health Facilities, said that 12,000 to 15,000 of the 100,000 nursing home
residents in that state were legal immigrants who had not become citizens. "We
don't know what the State Legislature will do," he said, "but it's our
impression that many of them will eventually lose their coverage. California
health officials said that 200 illegal immigrants in nursing homes would also
lose Medicaid coverage.

In New York, Edward J. Stafford, executive director of the New York State Health
Facilities Association, said: "Nursing homes right now are very hesitant to
admit anyone if they're not sure he or she is a U.S. citizen. Some noncitizens
have been in nursing homes for years, and we've been caring for them without
question. But the new law will put them at risk. If all of a sudden their
Medicaid benefits are cut off, obviously health care facilities can't afford to
provide free care."

Mr. Stafford said nursing homes in New York received an average of $160 a day
for each Medicaid patient.

William J. Pascocello, administrator of the Florence Nightingale Health Center,
a 561-bed nursing home in Manhattan, said: "Significant numbers of immigrants
have never achieved citizenship but have been in this country for years and
years. They could be 80 or 90 years old. Many are women. We have a pretty good
melting pot here -- people from Romania, Russia, El Salvador, the Dominican
Republic, Mexico, Argentina, Peru, Tibet. We have a whole floor of
Chinese-speaking residents. I have no idea how to go about testing their
eligibility. If they worked at all, it was probably in the cash economy of
Chinatown, where there are no records."

Permanent-resident aliens are exempt from the ban on public benefits if they can
prove that they or their spouses or parents have worked in the United States for
10 years.

The welfare law is expected to save the Federal Government $54.6 billion over
six years. The Congressional Budget Office said that 44 percent of that would
come from restricting immigrants' benefits. Congress, obviously anticipating
legal challenges, has justified the restrictions as the best way to achieve "the
compelling governmental interest of assuring that aliens be self-reliant in
accordance with national immigration policy."

Lawmakers were especially concerned about the increase in noncitizens on
Supplemental Security Income, a number that more than doubled from 1989 to last
year, rising to 785,000 from 370,000. The Government plans to tell them in
February and March that they will be cut off.

The Federal Government and the states share the cost of Medicaid. Bruce M.
Bullen, the Medicaid director in Massachusetts, said of immigrants that "states
may face the prospect of having to pick up, at state expense, the cost of their
care."

While the general intent of Congress is clear, the actual provisions dealing
with immigrants are complex and ambiguous. Most noncitizens will be
automatically barred from food stamps and the Supplemental Security Income
program, but states have some discretion in deciding whether to grant or deny
Medicaid to noncitizens who were in the United States before Aug. 22.

In a letter to state officials this week, Judith D. Moore, acting director of
the Medicaid Bureau at the Federal Department of Health and Human Services, said
immigrants arriving here on or after Aug. 22 were generally ineligible for
Medicaid for at least five years.

And, she said, before terminating Medicaid for those already on the rolls,
states must perform "a redetermination of eligibility" to see if they are
entitled to Medicaid for any other reason.

Prof. Sara Rosenbaum, director of the Center for Health Policy Research at
George Washington University, said: "In many states, it is unlikely that there
would be any alternative basis of Medicaid eligibility. When elderly and
disabled adults lose S.S.I., they may have no other way to qualify for
Medicaid."

Professor Rosenbaum said it was unrealistic for Congress to assume it could
change welfare radically without affecting Medicaid. "You can't end welfare as
we know it without ending Medicaid as we know it," she said. "Medicaid lives and
breathes on welfare. It's a creature of the underlying welfare programs."

Amy S. Fleishman, chief operating officer of the Hebrew Home of Greater
Washington, a 558-bed nursing home in Rockville, Md., said she had no idea who
would pay for 26 residents, most of them Russians, who are not citizens. State
officials have promised to continue Medicaid for immigrant children but have not
made a commitment for elderly immigrants, she said.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 21, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Running From The Law

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 17;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 715 words

DATELINE: WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind.


Forty years ago, at the height of the Red Scare, conservatives in Congress
pressed for laws to strip Federal courts of power to hear cases involving
Communist charges. They were angry at decisions that gave a degree of fairness
to Americans investigated and punished for suspect beliefs and associations.

Some of the court-stripping bills passed the House, and in 1958 they almost got
through the Senate. But in the end, even in that angry time, we rejected the
idea of denying unpopular people the right to their day in court.

This year is different. Congress has passed, and President Clinton signed into
law, bills denying all kinds of people their day in court. There has been a
flood of court-stripping legislation unlike anything in memory.

The new immigration law has many such provisions. One, particularly harsh, takes
away the rights of thousands of aliens who may be entitled to legalize their
situation under a 1986 statute giving amnesty to illegal aliens.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service adopted practices that unlawfully
excluded many aliens from that amnesty. The Supreme Court held that anyone who
could prove he was deterred from applying by the illegal I.N.S. practices could
file after the deadline. Cases are pending that involve at least 75,000 and
perhaps as many as 300,000 people who could still qualify for amnesty. The new
law throws them all out of court.

Another provision of the immigration act says that no court may review an
Attorney General's decision to exclude someone from this country because he has
engaged in terrorist activity. No one wants terrorists here. But officials make
mistakes in their findings. That is why a central premise of the American system
of government has been that we do not give any official unfettered discretion
over the lives of individuals. We make the official explain his reasoning in
court.

Another piece of legislation restricting the process of law is called the Prison
Litigation Reform Act. Passed last April, it undermines legal measures to
correct prison conditions so horrifying that Federal courts have found them
unconstitutional.

In the District of Columbia's prisons, for example, sexual assaults by guards on
female prisoners were commonplace. It took a court order to stop the rape and
harassment. In Pennsylvania, hundreds of inmates in a prison were infected with
tuberculosis when the authorities failed to take elementary health measures.
Again a court stepped in.

Most of the lawsuits challenging such conditions have been settled by consent
decrees. Higher authorities, when confronted with the facts of brutalities in
prison, do not want to defend them.

But the new law puts disabling restrictions on consent decrees. It says that
officials cannot agree to them unless they admit that they violated
constitutional rights -- which would open them to personal damage suits. It
limits consent decrees to two years. And there are many other obstructions to
legal action against prison brutality.

The reason given for the legislation was that prisoners file frivolous lawsuits.
Yes, they do. But judges have no trouble dismissing frivolous cases. The real
reason was surely that officials want to have a free hand in prisons, even when
some brutality results.

Those are just a few examples of court-stripping provisions that have become law
this year. They have in common a terrible theme: An individual may have been
treated unlawfully, but we'll prevent him from doing anything about it.

Why now? What reasons can there be for the sudden re-emergence of a legislative
technique that had seemed to be thoroughly discredited?

In part it was the Republican sweep of 1994. Just as the radical right in
Congress tried to undo environmental protection, so it moved against civil
liberties. But while President Clinton fought against the gutting of
environmental laws, he offered little or no resistance on civil liberties.
Neither did his Attorney General, Janet Reno.

There has been almost no public attention to the court-stripping measures. Few
people were even aware of them. The press hardly covered them. And so, in
silence, Congress and the President have set a dangerous precedent, weakening
our tradition of holding officials accountable in the courts.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 11, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Rest Is Silence

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Francisco Lucas Rodriguez-Roman grew up in Cuba detesting Fidel Castro's
Communist system. A college graduate and teacher, he went into the merchant
marine with the hope that some day it would give him a way out. After a few
years he had his chance, jumped ship and sought asylum in the United States.

What has happened to him says important things about our legal system. It is a
story with a happy ending -- up to a point.

An immigration judge found that Mr. Rodriguez had fled because of his political
beliefs and would face terrible consequences if sent back to Cuba.  He would
probably be arrested for illegally leaving the country, for desertion and for
treason, and would suffer "harsh, if not fatal" punishment.

Nevertheless, the immigration judge rejected the application for asylum. He
reasoned that Mr. Rodriguez would be punished by the Castro regime not "for his
beliefs, but for committing crimes against the socialist state of Cuba." Other
countries punish "desertion" as a crime, he said, citing the case of Pvt. Eddie
Slovik -- who was executed for deserting the U.S. Army in World War II.

Mr. Rodriguez took his case to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
There, by chance, it was heard by a panel of three judges including one usually
characterized as liberal, Stephen Reinhardt, and one as conservative, Alex
Kozinski.

The opinion of the court, announced Sept. 30, was by Judge Reinhardt. He
described as "Kafkaesque" the immigration judge's reasoning that Mr. Rodriguez
would merely be punished for ordinary crimes if returned to Cuba. There could be
no valid comparison, he said, between Mr. Rodriguez's politically motivated
escape and a soldier's desertion in wartime.

The court cited other cases, in its own and other circuits, holding that the
prospect of harsh punishment for the crime of leaving a country may entitle a
person to asylum. It granted Mr. Rodriguez's plea to withhold deportation and
sent his case back to the Attorney General for consideration of a formal grant
of asylum.

Judge Kozinski wrote a concurring opinion that reflected his experience growing
up in Communist Romania. He came to this country from there in 1962.

"What happened in this case at the administrative level is chilling," he said.
"Communist countries are known for their brutality in stemming emigration."

Where our immigration authorities went wrong, he said, was "in accepting the
Newspeak used by the Cuban Government to camouflage its atrocities. Rather than
admit that it must cling to its own citizens by brute force, the Cuban
Government adopts the fairy tale that its citizens, with the exception of a few
'traitors' and 'deserters,' are happy to live under communism. . . .

"This is not a general indictment of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service," Judge Kozinski added, "an agency toward which I feel respect and
gratitude. . . . But agencies are run by people, and people make mistakes."

That is why it is important to have independent courts review administrative
decisions, Judge Kozinski said -- especially decisions of this kind, which "can
mean the difference between freedom and oppression and, quite possibly, life and
death."

Judge Kozinski's point about the importance of judicial review drew a further
opinion from Judge Reinhardt and the third member of the panel, Judge Michael D.
Hawkins. "We wholeheartedly agree," they wrote. Without that check, "grave
injustices could take place."

The assurance that official orders are subject to review by independent courts
is central to the American vision of "a government of laws, and not of men." In
the Rodriguez case it received powerful support, across the judicial spectrum.
But there is a bitter irony in the case.

Because his plea was heard by independent judges, Francisco Rodriguez-Roman will
not be sent back to tyranny. Others will not be so fortunate in the future. For
Congress, in the immigration bill just enacted, made the decisions of
immigration judges in asylum cases final. There will be no review by an
independent court.

The sponsor of that harsh new asylum provision, Representative Lamar Smith of
Texas, called it "common sense." The only people who need fear it, he said, "are
those who might wish to abuse our immigration loopholes." Fidel Castro or George
Orwell could not have put it better.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 14, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 75 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis (column, Nov. 11) is wrong when he contends that the new
immigration reform law bars judicial review of decisions by immigration judges
on applications for asylum. Section 306 of the law specifies that such decisions
are reviewable and may be reversed if "manifestly contrary to law and an abuse
of discretion."

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Chairman, Subcommittee on
Immigration and Claims
Washington, Nov. 12, 1996

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Law Loosens a Safety Net

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 12;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 326 words


To the Editor:

Representative Lamar Smith's Nov. 14 letter supplies welcome assurance that
Congress did not intend the new immigration law to foreclose judicial review in
all asylum cases. But the new law does insulate from judicial review many asylum
denials and other important decisions of administrative officials.

Our immigration laws go on for pages listing the acts that render even long-term
legal immigrants deportable. They range from serious crimes to trivial
transgressions, like the failure to report address changes on time. United
States law has always given immigration officials a limited discretion to spare
long-term lawful permanent residents as well as others who can prove extreme
hardship to citizen relatives or who have other special equities.

But those decisions are made by human beings, and human beings are fallible.
Every immigration practitioner can relate instances in which officials have
mistakenly found applicants ineligible for discretionary relief. In the past,
the courts have provided a safety net.

Not anymore. Under the new law, the courts have been stripped of their power to
review some of the most crucial decisions that immigration officials make.

The elderly immigrant who came lawfully to the United States as a child but who
failed to report an address change on time could be deported because an official
erroneously decided that the person did not qualify for relief. No court would
have the power to correct the error.

Only a tiny proportion of actual denials are brought to court. But the courts
have averted many a tragedy and have provided guidance for future cases.
Moreover, the prospect of judicial review has furnished an incentive for
administrators to do their work carefully. When the human stakes are this great,
our laws should demand no less.

STEPHEN H. LEGOMSKY
St. Louis, Nov. 14, 1996

The writer is a professor of international law at Washington University.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 19, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Jury Gets Immigration Case

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;Page 1;Column 1;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 89 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Deliberations began yesterday in the trial of the third-ranking immigration
official in New Jersey, who is charged with falsifying documents that enabled
aliens to enter the country illegally. Prosecutors said John F. Lonergan, a
supervisor in the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Newark office,
accepted gifts from immigration brokers in return for helping their clients
enter the country. But the defense said the case was based mainly on allegations
by an informant who has served time for perjury.   TERRY PRISTIN

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Official Is Found Guilty

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Nov. 19


A Federal jury convicted the third-ranking immigration official in New Jersey
today on charges that he helped aliens enter the United States illegally and
accepted lavish gifts in return.

The official, John F. Lonergan, 49, was indicted by a Federal grand jury in July
on charges of falsifying documents that allowed aliens to enter the country. The
indictment accused Mr. Lonergan, a senior official in the Newark office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, of scheming with a document broker --
who helps foreigners through the complicated immigration process -- to make
false statements on official forms. The statements allowed aliens who had
already spent time in the United States to re-enter after traveling abroad.

Mr. Lonergan was convicted on five counts of conspiracy, bribery, making false
statements to an agent, fraudulently obtaining entry documents and assisting two
Iraqis to enter the United States illegally. He was acquitted of a sixth charge,
a variation on the bribery charge.

Mr. Lonergan faces a maximum sentence of 35 years. He has been free on $20,000
bail since his arrest on July 2.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 9, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Taking In the Sites;
Immigrants' Shortcuts To Essential Information

BYLINE: By JACQUELINE SAVAIANO

SECTION: Section D;  Page 7;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 657 words


Despite recent anti-immigration laws and sentiment, legal newcomers can more
quickly and easily negotiate the roadblocks. Some World Wide Web sites prepare
the user for various bureaucratic immigration processes. In addition, there are
sites run by ethnic groups with leads on jobs, recreation, schooling, local
clubs and legal issues.

To bone up on how to enter America, work or become a citizen, a first step would
be to explore four no-frills sites: those maintained by the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the State Department, the American
Immigration Center and Immigration Lawyers on the Web. These are efficient,
cheap alternatives to being kept on hold by the I.N.S. or to racking up phone
bills looking for immigration lawyers.

The State Department page provides a series of links under the "Visa" heading
offering information on the legal requirements for various types of visas, from
those available to family members of American citizens to those for specialized
workers. Texts of recent revisions of basic immigration laws are also available
through hyperlinks from this page.

The key link on the I.N.S. home page is Frequently Asked Questions, with
sublinks like citizenship, green cards and residency. Under Asylum, there are
details on timing, forms and where to submit them.

The Immigration Service site outlines processes only. For forms or assistance,
tap into the sites of the American Immigration Center and Immigration Lawyers on
the Web. Under Immigrant Document Preparation, the for-profit American
Immigration Center site instructs how to prepare documents from citizenship to
replacement of a lost green card, and offers to type and file to the I.N.S. for
a fee.

For free forms, click on What's New at the Immigration Lawyers on the Web home
page. Forms will be mailed within two days.

James Acoba, a Los Angeles immigration lawyer, raises some red flags about these
sites. Some information could be inaccurate because of changes in the laws, he
said. In addition, there are disclaimers that the content is not legal advice.
And, he said, see if the information source is regulated. The bottom line when
going through the immigration process? "Find a good lawyer," Mr. Acoba said,
noting the Law Firms section on the Immigration Lawyers site. To move through
the Searchable Lawyer Data Base, type in the area of interest (visa, let's say),
language (Spanish) and location (New York City), and specific names pop up.
Credentials can be partly reviewed.

Immigrants can use the growing number of Internet search engines for sites by
ethnic groups devoted to the particular cultural and legal needs of new
Americans.

A page that went up in September, for example, the Jewish Federation of Greater
Los Angeles site, reads like a yellow pages, only faster and better, because the
listings zero in on community organizations -- food banks, loan associations,
employment services, synagogues, schools.

The Greater Jewish center site can be reached through all browsers. Many others
require either Microsoft's Internet Explorer or the Netscape Navigator.

Latino Net -- in English only for now -- falls short of its intended national
scope. Employment and events listings for Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico are
still under construction. Working links include News This Week (articles on
Latino issues, including immigration, voting and business, broken down by state
and region, and Education (scholarships and internships).

There are many Asian- American sites, some university-based, like the Asian
American Resources page at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which
organizes links to everything from Asian-language videos to clubs to media
outlets and businesses. The Asian American Network, with several links to
Taiwan-related sites, has information useful to entrepreneurs who often travel
and work in both regions during the years-long immigration process.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "WHERE TO GO"

IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE
http://www.usdoj.gov/ins/index.html

AMERICAN IMMIGRATION CENTER, http://www.us-immigration.com

IMMIGRATION LAWYERS ON THE WEB, http://www.ilw.com

ASIAN AMERICAN NETWORK, http://www.aan.net

ASIAN AMERICAN RESOURCES
http://www.edu:8001/afs/athena.mit.edu/user/i/r/rie/www/aar.html

LATINO NET, http://member.aol.com/Inet03/latinonet/Inwelcome.html

COUNCIL OF JEWISH FEDERATIONS, http://www.jewishfedna.org

U.S. STATE DEPARTMENT, http://travel.state.gov/visa services.html

JEWISH FEDERATION OF GREATER LOS ANGELES, http://www.jewishla.org

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 23, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A Crucial Test for Immigrants to Retain Aid

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1274 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Dec. 22


At age 82, blind in one eye, asthmatic and determined, Rosa Milyvaskaya, from
Belarus, hobbled on her cane into the room for a meeting with her citizenship
teacher.

"I must study," said Mrs. Milyvaskaya, speaking through a translator. "I want to
be an American citizen."

Her teacher, Inna Brusilovskaya, a 72-year-old Ukrainian immigrant who recently
became an American citizen, held the frail hand of her student. "We will
prepare," she told a visitor. "She must do it."

At an age when they thought they had long since put school behind them, Mrs.
Milyvaskaya and dozens of other aging Russian Jewish and Asian immigrants with
little or no English in her low-income community here are staying up nights
worrying and cramming for the most important test of their lives: the one to
become American citizens.

For them and for tens of thousands of other legal immigrants across the country,
the pressure is enormous. With changes in the Federal welfare law, if they fail
the citizenship test they will no longer automatically be entitled to the
Government money that most of them need to live.

With some exceptions, the new law bans legal immigrants of any age from
receiving Federal Supplemental Security Income and food stamps. The
Congressional Budget Office has estimated that nationwide as many as 500,000
legal immigrants could lose their supplemental benefits.

In Boston, the news of the changes has passed from senior center to senior
center. The government-subsidized, nonsectarian Jewish Community Housing for the
Elderly in the Brighton neighborhood -- where Mrs. Milyvaskaya is one of 900
tenants in three brick apartment buildings -- has mobilized to try to insure
that no one fails.

Mrs. Brusilovskaya and a handful of other tenants who are citizens -- Naakh
Vysoky, a former doctor from Ukraine, and his wife, Klara, a former teacher of
German, and Wendy Wang, who was an accountant in China -- formed a volunteer
teaching corps in September.

Seven days a week, their students grapple with English and with the basics of
American history and civics -- the Bill of Rights, the duties of Congress and
the Supreme Court, names of the 13 original states -- which they must master to
become citizens. The examination includes 20 multiple choice questions selected
from a possible 150, an oral interview and writing out two sentences dictated in
English.

Becoming a citizen, from application to swearing-in, usually takes about six
months, although with the rush of immigrants seeking citizenship to keep their
benefits, the process is taking longer in some areas.

Nowhere is that rush more evident than here, where everyone, it seems, is now a
student.

"They have high blood pressure," said Mr. Vysoky, 75, who makes home-study
visits to those who are disabled or ill or simply too weak to leave their
apartments. "They have headaches. But they keep working. We have to help them."

Mr. Vysoky approached the housing unit's management last fall. "He said: 'Tell
me about this law. People are terrified,' " said Ellen Feingold, the president
of Jewish Community Housing for the Elderly. The staff held a series of meetings
in the auditorium, in Russian and Chinese, to explain the new law and to tell
the tenants that they would do everything they could to help them.

Most of the immigrant residents receive about $500 a month in S.S.I. payments --
money that they learned they will lose if they do not become citizens.

At first not everyone wanted to study. "They were very angry," Mr. Vysoky said.
"They said, 'Why do you bother me?' I had to explain to them: 'This situation is
very serious. You have to be educated.'

"A lot of people were in depression. They're now more calm."

The Russians arrived in America as refugees, many more than a decade ago, when
the cold war was still being waged. Fleeing Communism and anti-Semitism in what
was then the Soviet Union, they were welcomed through the pipeline that the
Government had opened for humanitarian reasons. But now the immigrants must cope
with the reality that laws do change.

It is a confusing time. "We were happy that America wanted us," said Marianna
Krayzman, a 74-year-old former doctor from Kiev, speaking through a translator.
"Now we don't know what to expect."

Still, no one talks of going back. "A big thank you to the country that gives us
everything," Mrs. Milyvaskaya said, placing her hand over her heart as she burst
into English the other day. "I am happy to live in U.S. It is a dream to be an
American citizen."

To that end, Mrs. Brusilovskaya was drilling a class the other day in the 150
multiple-choice questions.

What is the Bill of Rights? Who was the President during the Civil War? How many
senators are there from each state? Where in North America were the 13 original
American colonies?

"We eat, sleep and breathe these questions," Mrs. Brusilovskaya said.

Seated around a conference table, Ida Kantor, 82, Leya Gertash, 83, Abraham
Krayzman, 78, and their eight classmates struggled to memorize the questions and
the answers in halting English.

Only those who are over 50 and have been here more than 15 years are allowed to
take the test in their native language.

Mr. Krayzman said: "We study 25 hours a day. We respect America. We want to live
in this country."

And, he added, there was another reason that he and his fellow immigrants are
working so hard: "We want to eat."

Mrs. Brusilovskaya, a pediatrician when she lived in Ukraine, taught herself
English, driven in part by her desire that she not be a burden to her son,
Michael, an electronics engineer who lives in a nearby suburb. "He works so
hard," she said. "He is the American dream."

She passed the citizenship test in October. "They said, 'You are O.K.,' and gave
me a document to sign," she said. "I said, 'God bless America.' I was so happy."

Now, like Mr. Vysoky, she devotes herself to her students as she once did to her
patients. She writes out long lists of possible questions and answers in Russian
and English, makes up sample tests each week and is always available for private
instruction.

Most of their students are former doctors, engineers and teachers. As difficult
as the test may be for them, it is even more daunting for many others who may
have never learned to read and write in their own language.

One of the stars of her class is frail Mrs. Milyvaskaya, a former bookkeeper,
who lived just downwind of Chernobyl when the nuclear reactor there caught fire.
She passed the written part of the exam last month. "Thanks to my teacher," she
said, blowing a kiss to Mrs. Brusilovskaya as they sat together the other day.

Now Mrs. Milyvaskaya is preparing for the oral test. It is not easy. "I cannot
remember what is in my refrigerator," she said. "I have to keep a list of what
is in my refrigerator."

A fading memory is a problem for many. "I can learn the questions," 87-year-old
Gita Burdenko told her teacher, Mr. Vysoky. "But then 10, 15 minutes later I
forget everything."

They were working at Mrs. Burdenko's small kitchen table, with its red-and-white
checkered tablecloth and on the wall the framed picture of her thoroughly
American, grandson Alex, who speaks little Russian. Mrs. Burdenko, who uses a
walker and has had surgery for ulcers, is not well enough to attend class.

Mr. Vysoky, a professorial presence in his gray pin-striped suit and glasses,
reassured his student that they would go over the questions again and again. He
would accompany her to the test, as he does all his students.

"She will pass the exam," Mr. Vyskoky said. "We have no choice. She has to pass
the exam."


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Changes in the welfare law mean legal immigrants will no longer
be entitled to benefits unless they become citizens. In Boston, Inna
Brusilovskaya teaches Rosa Milyvaskaya the material to pass the citizenship
exam. (Evan Richman for The New York Times)

Chart: "FOR EXAMPLE: The Questions of Citizenship"

Many elderly immigrants in Massachusetts, concerned over recent Federal
legislation reducing welfare benefits to legal immigrants, are looking to become
full citizens. Chart lists some sample study questions from the test they must
pass to do so. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 25, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Refugees in Dentention Find They Are in Legal Limbo

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 428 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 24


Immigration officials have begun enforcing a Dec. 6 cutoff date after which all
Cuban refugees who arrive in this country illegally, regardless of where they
are picked up, are subject to being returned to Cuba.

That means freedom for some Cuban refugees and uncertainty for others.

Since the Immigration and Naturalization Service issued a directive setting the
cutoff date, immigration officials have released 82 Cuban refugees who were
detained in the United States before Dec. 6. Those Cubans are being allowed to
seek political asylum, as most Cuban refugees could do until last year.

But those who have been detained since Dec. 6 are in legal limbo.

"If the Cuban Government accepts their return, they will be subject to removal,"
Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for the immigration service in Miami, said today.
"It's no different than it's ever been."

In May 1995, the United States changed its policy after a wave of Cubans arrived
by raft. The Clinton Administration decided to return those picked up at sea who
could not demonstrate a credible fear of persecution in Cuba.

Those who made it to the United States could not be returned because the United
States and Cuba have not been able to agree on details of their repatriation. In
talks on Dec. 4 and 5, the Castro Government was asked to permit the monitoring
of the returned Cubans to guard against abuse, an Administration official said.
Cuba seemed to take an open-minded position, neither accepting nor rejecting the
American initiative, said the official, speaking on condition of anonymity.

In the Miami district, 206 Cubans had been detained as of Dec. 6, but 124 of
them are criminal aliens and therefore not eligible for parole, Mr. Wooley said.
The remaining 82 have been released, a few each day, since Saturday.

Fourteen have been apprehended since Dec. 6.

Like Mr. Wooley, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington also
insisted there had been no policy change. But that did not keep some from
interpreting the cutoff date as a get-tough move against Cuban refugees, even
while the Clinton Administration was freeing some detainees.

"The United States needs to clarify its policy," said Ramon Cernuda, who is
active on human rights issues and works with several groups inside Cuba.

"This present definition of the right to or the favorable consideration to those
who fear persecution is very vague," Mr. Cernuda said. "It can be interpreted to
apply to just about everyone. Fear of persecution is not the same as
imprisonment, not the same as actual reprisals."

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Crisis for Senior Centers

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Home Desk

LENGTH: 271 words


To The Home Section:

We wish to commend the article on the importance of senior centers in the daily
lives of thousands of older New Yorkers ("Centers for Elderly Enter a New Age,"
Dec. 26). However, we must elaborate on one issue.

Senior centers face their gravest crisis this year due to the new welfare reform
law. As of April 1, a minimum of 50,000 elderly legal immigrants in New York
City will receive letters stating that they will lose their Supplemental
Security Income and food stamps if they fail to learn enough English to pass a
citizenship test.

Another 20,000 to 30,000 elderly immigrants will have to endure a process to
determine eligibility for certain exemptions under the same law.

Senior centers are the places seniors will run to for help. The centers will be
expected to absorb this responsibility with no additional resources for such
services as English language and citizenship classes.

Still other centers will be flooded with requests for food from needy seniors
whose nutrition budgets have been reduced over the past several years, including
grandparents raising grandchildren.

Many centers will be overwhelmed. And if senior centers are unable to help these
older persons, who will they turn to?

As long as this law mandates that elderly legal immigrants, no matter their
condition, must either get a job or learn English or both -- just to maintain
basic benefits for their survival -- a human tragedy is looming.

IGAL JELLINEK
Executive Director

BOBBIE SACKMAN
Director of Public Policy
Council of Senior Centers and
Services of New York City Inc.
New York

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 25, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Governors Seek to Restore Immigrant Aid

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1119 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 24


Gov. George E. Pataki of New York and other Republican governors urged Congress
today to restore some of the benefits taken away from legal immigrants under the
new welfare law, signed just six months ago by President Clinton.

The Republican governors' appeal was strongly endorsed by Democratic governors
and by the National Conference of State Legislatures. This groundswell of
concern virtually guarantees that Congress will reopen the bitter debate on
welfare legislation, though there is no assurance that any benefits will be
restored.

Mr. Pataki said that 80,000 immigrants in New York State would lose food stamps
or Supplemental Security Income because of the law. The statute, he said, will
shift $240 million a year in costs from the Federal Government to the state,
because New York will provide assistance through its home relief program to many
people losing Federal benefits.

Republican Congressional leaders have repeatedly said that they did not intend
to make any significant changes in the welfare law this year. But they may be
forced to reconsider in view of concerns now being expressed by governors of
both parties, including influential Republicans like Mr. Pataki, Jim Edgar of
Illinois, George W. Bush of Texas and William F. Weld of Massachusetts.

In an interview tonight, Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida, a Democrat, said he was
delighted to have Republican governors join him in opposing the restrictions on
benefits for legal immigrants. "Better late than never," he said.

Mr. Chiles said Republican governors seemed to ignore the issue in 1995 and
1996, perhaps because they assumed the cuts in benefits would affect only
illegal immigrants.

"We never could get their attention," Mr. Chiles said. "I couldn't understand
it. Where were New York, New Jersey, Texas and California?" Those states have
Republican governors, "all of whom should have a lot more influence in Congress
than I do," Mr. Chiles added.

Top Senate Republicans promised to work with the governors, but refused today to
make any financial commitments. "We don't see a whole lot more money coming from
Uncle Sam," said Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the assistant Republican
leader. "I'm concerned about opening up the bill before the ink is dry."

Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat who led opposition to the
welfare bill on Capitol Hill, said there was some chance, but no guarantee, that
Congress would restore benefits for some legal immigrants. Governor Chiles said,
"It will be very difficult."

The restrictions on benefits for legal immigrants account for more than 40
percent of all the money to be saved under the welfare law: $24 billion of $55
billion over seven years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

When Mr. Clinton signed the welfare bill, he voiced "strong objections" to
denying aid to legal immigrants. Those provisions, he said, "have nothing to do
with the fundamental purpose of welfare reform" and "will shift costs to
states."

The governors' position provides unexpected support for Mr. Clinton, who in his
new budget will ask Congress to restore some benefits for immigrants. The
governors do not yet have an estimate of the cost of their proposal, nor have
they said how Congress should pay for it.

Mr. Pataki, Mr. Edgar and Gov. Lincoln C. Almond of Rhode Island, a Republican,
expressed their concerns at a meeting here today with Trent Lott, the Senate
Republican leader.

Under the welfare law, immigrants are generally ineligible for Federal benefits
like food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, a form of cash assistance for
poor people who are elderly, blind or disabled.

New policy statements drafted for the National Governors' Association, which
meets here on Feb. 1, say that Congress should restore such benefits for some
legal immigrants, particularly those who cannot be expected to work or to become
United States citizens because of their age or physical or mental impairments.

Republican governors, working with Speaker Newt Gingrich, helped write the
welfare bill and lobbied successfully for its passage. "They had a party
position, and they all had to stay with it," said Mr. Moynihan, who tried, with
limited success, to rouse concern in Albany last year.

Another Democrat on Capitol Hill, speaking on the condition that he not be
identified, said: "Republican governors who were clamoring for this bill six
months ago are now urging the repeal or softening of some of its biggest
money-saving provisions. Where were they last summer?"

In a confidential draft of its new policy, the governors' association expresses
concern about the effects of the welfare law on immigrants who were in the
United States on Aug. 22, but who cannot meet the citizenship requirements
because of age or disability.

"These individuals should not be barred from Federal Supplemental Security
Income and food stamps," the draft policy says.

In the development of domestic social policy, governors have played an
influential role in recent years, proposing compromises that appeal to both
Congress and the President. The new draft policy on welfare represents a
significant change from the careful neutrality of the governors' last statement,
in February 1996, which neither endorsed nor opposed the restrictions on
benefits for immigrants.

Had the governors spoken out last year, they might have dissuaded Congress from
imposing some of the restrictions on benefits for immigrants. Jerry W. Friedman,
Assistant Secretary of Social and Health Services in Washington State, said:
"Most of the welfare reform debate focused on work and employment and training
opportunities. Denying services to legal immigrants was just not part of the
mainstream debate."

Likewise, Gary K. Weeks, director of the Oregon Department of Human Resources,
said: "The pressure to move a welfare bill through Congress as quickly as
possible caused us not to look at the impact and consequences of these
provisions as deeply as we might otherwise have."

But now, said Gary J. Stangler, director of the Missouri Department of Social
Services, "the reality has begun to set in" as governors realize that they will
lose large amounts of Federal aid for immigrants.

In addition, state officials have discovered that they must check the
citizenship status of many people seeking or receiving benefits, and they see
this requirement as a major new administrative burden.

"Whether you have one noncitizen in your caseload or a million, you must use the
same procedures to identify noncitizens," said Elaine M. Ryan, director of
government affairs at the American Public Welfare Association, which advises
states how to comply with the new law.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. George E. Pataki of New York arriving yesterday for a
Capitol Hill news conference at which he and other Republican governors urged
Congress to restore some welfare aid taken away from legal immigrants.
(Associated Press)(pg. 8)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 30, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Whitman Plans $2 Million to Help Immigrants Become Citizens

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 644 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 29


New Jersey would spend $2 million a year to help poor legal immigrants who are
elderly or disabled become United States citizens under Gov. Christine Todd
Whitman's new budget proposal, a move that might protect them from losing
benefits under the new Federal welfare law.

The plan is the newest component of Governor Whitman's proposal to overhaul New
Jersey's welfare system and bring the state into compliance with the Federal
welfare law adopted last year. The Federal Government will no longer provide
benefits for legal immigrants under its new law.

And many states, including New Jersey, are reluctant to pick up the cost of
those benefits, which include food stamps and Supplemental Security Income.

A citizenship program would help New Jersey avoid that extra cost because once
legal immigrants became citizens, they would be eligible for the Federal
benefits.

"It's to the financial advantage of both the immigrants and the state to achieve
naturalization," said William Waldman, the State Commissioner of Human Services,
who said that most of the eligible immigrants live in Essex, Hudson and Passaic
Counties. "So we're really mounting a campaign to help them out."

Although much of Governor Whitman's welfare plan mirrors the Federal
legislation, New Jersey and many other states have softened the provisions
concerning legal immigrants in their own proposals. Gov. George E. Pataki has
said that New York will provide assistance through its home relief program to
many people losing benefits. If the New Jersey legislation is adopted, the state
will continue providing cash benefits to the 15,000 legal immigrants who already
receive them in New Jersey and Medicaid benefits to 50,000.

Under the Federal law, most legal immigrants here and around the nation will no
longer receive food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, a change that is
supposed to save the Federal Government $24 billion over seven years.

But the citizenship program announced today could help the state's most fragile
legal immigrants become citizens quickly, state officials said, so they could
start receiving the Federal benefits again. Roughly 22,000 legal immigrants in
New Jersey receive food stamps from the Federal Government, state officials
said.

Under New Jersey's welfare proposal, legal immigrants who arrived here before
last August, when the Federal welfare law was adopted, will still be eligible
for cash benefits and Medicaid, all of which will be paid by the state. But
those who arrived after the law was passed will not be eligible for these
benefits, Mr. Waldman said.

Jack Tweedie, a welfare policy analyst for the National Conference of State
Legislators in Denver, said New Jersey's stance on legal immigrants is not
unique. Of 41 states that have submitted welfare plans to the United States
Department of Health and Human Services, only four have not extended family
assistance benefits to legal immigrants, Mr. Tweedie said. Those states --
Kentucky, Louisiana, Wyoming and Oklahoma -- all have tiny immigrant
populations, he added.

The $2 million for citizenship efforts would be distributed through the New
Jersey Immigration Policy Network, a coalition of private charities that provide
programs for immigrants, state officials said.

Any organization wanting to provide services through the plan would have to pay
for half of the total cost, with state money covering the other half. The state
would not pay more than $325 for each immigrant participating.

The money would initially help more than 5,000 elderly or disabled immigrants
pay for English, history and civics classes, which anyone applying for United
States citizenship is required to take. It would also help pay for the legal
services immigrants need to apply for citizenship, interpreters and
transportation to citizenship classes and immigration offices.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 5, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Costs

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 171 words


To the Editor:

As an immigrant, I agree with A. M. Rosenthal (column, Jan. 31) that last year's
welfare bill treats taxpaying legal immigrants unfairly. It adds insult to the
injury caused by taxation without representation, and deserves to be changed in
this regard, as President Clinton has acknowledged.

But Mr. Rosenthal goes too far in his defense of current immigration policy.
Under current policy, most immigrants are not admitted based on their "talent
and muscle" or their "longing" for assimilation. As a result, current
immigration patterns pose special problems for American society, including
disproportionate poverty and dependence on state benefits among some groups.

Rather than considering the costs as well as the benefits of immigration, Mr.
Rosenthal sentimentally celebrates immigration and labels his opponents
"anti-immigrants." The late Barbara Jordan, whose commission proposed changes of
the kind he opposes, would bristle at that charge.

FRANK LECHNER
Atlanta, Jan. 31, 1997

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

CUNY's New Offering: Quick Guide to Citizenship

BYLINE: By KAREN W. ARENSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 842 words


In the face of plans to cut government benefits for legal immigrants, the City
University of New York will try to help thousands of its immigrant students
become citizens.

Like many other universities, CUNY has long offered classes intended to help
immigrants in their citizenship applications, like English as a second language
and basic American history. But for the first time, the system is reaching out
to students directly to help them win citizenship.

In doing so, CUNY joins a growing parade of civic groups and city and state
officials that have pledged to help legal immigrants since Congress voted last
summer to deny them food stamps, cash payments under Federal Supplemental
Security Income for the needy, aged, blind or disabled, and other Federal
benefits. The Federal Government has not yet specified all the programs that
will be affected.

"We're starting to feel a great sense of urgency," said CUNY's Chancellor, W.
Ann Reynolds. "Almost half of our freshmen are foreign-born, and they are legal.
With the change in Federal policies, it is even more important that people
become citizens quickly."

About 12 percent of the immigrant students at CUNY receive some kind of public
assistance, CUNY said. Under the new Federal welfare act, they stand to lose
those benefits, which officials said could make it hard for them to remain in
college.

Through its new program, called Citizenship Now, CUNY plans to train students
and faculty and staff members on each campus to help immigrants with the
application process, to distribute packets that students can fill out to apply
for citizenship and to hold special workshops to help them complete their
applications.

It will conduct an all-day session next week to train the campus advisers, and
plans the first workshop at City College late this month.

"This is great," said Maria Gamarra, a second-year student in psychology at City
College who moved to New York from Peru five years ago with her family. "A lot
of things are going against immigrants now, and there were rumors that they were
going to take financial aid away from green-card holders. That's scary. It's
safer to be a citizen."

Ms. Gamarra, who is 18 and hopes to become a clinical psychologist, said her
parents had been on the verge of seeking a lawyer to help them seek
naturalization, but that would have cost a lot of money.

"Here, they will help me," she said, "and it will be free."

Prof. Allan Wernick, who will head the program, emphasized that the new program
is aimed specifically at helping students who already have permanent-resident
status. To qualify, he said, an applicant must be a permanent resident who has
lived in this country for five years (three if married to and living with a
United States citizen), shows a command of English and basic civics, and
demonstrates good moral character.

He said CUNY will give students a package with nearly everything they need to
apply for citizenship, and will bring someone to take photos and fingerprints
when he visits each campus.

Several advocates for immigrants said yesterday that while public universities
-- and especially community colleges -- often have many immigrant students, they
were not aware of other universities that had naturalization programs like
CUNY's. But they said they welcomed the university's involvement.

"Any expansion of citizenship services is good news," said Margie McHugh,
executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition.

Rick Swartz, a Washington lawyer and immigration advocate, called it "a pretty
natural fit for higher education to be caught up in this."

In California, some community colleges and school districts have established
citizenship centers in recent years to help immigrants, who take English and
citizenship courses, usually through their adult education programs.

CUNY has always attracted large numbers of immigrants eager for an education.
About 47 percent of its 26,000 freshmen are foreign-born and CUNY predicts that
by the year 2000, it will be half. The university is not certain how many
students will participate in its citizenship project, but it is preparing 3,000
packets.

"This is a beginning, but I anticipate we will be doing substantially more,"
said Professor Wernick. An immigration lawyer and professor of public
administration and paralegal studies at Hostos Community College in the South
Bronx, he has run a center for the rights of women and immigrants at Hostos that
has helped a couple hundred students seek citizenship each year.

"But we've been doing this by the seat of the pants," he said, noting that this
will be the first university-wide effort to help students.

The idea for the program was born last fall during a voter-registration drive,
when many immigrant students said they wished that they could register and vote,
too.

In New York, the processing time for applicants who meet citizenship
requirements has been about six months, he said. But immigration experts say a
flood of new applicants has lengthened the wait.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Almost half the freshmen at City University are foreign-born,
like Maria Gamarra, 18, at City College, who is from Peru. CUNY is trying to
help immigrants become citizens, so Federal benefits will not be threatened.
(Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Legal Immigrants to Get Letters on Welfare Cut

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 925 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5


The Clinton Administration began sending letters to one million legal immigrants
today telling them that they might soon lose welfare benefits because they were
not citizens.

The letters went out even as President Clinton prepared to ask a skeptical
Congress for more money to continue benefits for some of the immigrants
scheduled to lose aid under the new welfare law.

In his State of the Union Message on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton urged Congress to
restore health and disability benefits for noncitizens. "To do otherwise is
simply unworthy of a great nation of immigrants," he declared.

The deadline for mailing the letters is March 31, but Administration officials
said they intended to send the notices over the next eight weeks.

The benefits, under the Supplemental Security Income program, average $410 a
month. The recipients all have very low incomes. Some are elderly; many are
disabled. Some live in nursing homes. Some have resided in the United States for
years but have not become citizens.

Each letter starts with this admonition: "Important notice. You may lose your
S.S.I."

It goes on to say that the new welfare law, signed by Mr. Clinton on Aug. 22,
allows Supplemental Security Income benefits only for citizens and certain
noncitizens, including refugees, military veterans, active-duty members of the
armed forces and people who have worked in the United States for at least 10
years.

More than 320,000 letters are being sent to noncitizens in California. The next
biggest batch, more than 120,000, is going to New York State, with Florida and
Texas also getting large numbers.

The letters invite immigrants to notify any Social Security office if they
believe that they qualify for benefits under one of the exceptions. The
Congressional Budget Office estimates that 500,000 immigrants will eventually be
cut from the rolls after all appeals are reviewed.

The savings in this program alone account for nearly one-fourth of all the
savings expected under the new welfare law: $13.3 billion of $54.6 billion over
seven years.

In his 1998 budget, to be issued on Thursday, Mr. Clinton will propose new
spending to soften the effects of the welfare law on poor people and immigrants.
It appears that the proposals would restore 40 percent of all the money saved.

Yvette S. Jackson, deputy administrator of the Federal Food and Consumer
Service, said many legal immigrants would also lose food stamps from April 1 to
Aug. 22. Decisions will be made by state officials, who run the program under
Federal rules.

Budget documents show that Mr. Clinton will ask Congress to restore Supplemental
Security Income benefits and Medicaid for more than 250,000 legal immigrants who
become disabled after entering the United States.

"The nation should protect legal immigrants and their families -- people
admitted as permanent members of the American community -- when they suffer
accidents or crippling illnesses that prevent them from earning a living," the
budget says. "Similarly, the nation should provide S.S.I. to legal immigrant
children if they become disabled."

Republicans in Congress promised to weigh the President's request carefully but
said they were unlikely to approve it.

Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee, said: "The ink isn't even dry on the welfare reform package. We
ought to see how it's working before we open the doors to spend a lot more
taxpayers' money on aliens."

Another Republican member of the committee, Representative Jim McCrery of
Louisiana, was asked to assess the outlook for restoring benefits to immigrants.

"I don't think the outlook is very bright for that this year," Mr.  McCrery said
in an interview. "Members of Congress and members of the public think we ought
to give the welfare reform law a chance to work before we start dismantling it."

Administration officials said they hoped that the President's proposals would be
accepted as part of a bipartisan agreement on the budget. But liberal Democrats
outside the Administration said they were unsure whether the President would
fight for the proposals.

Budget documents show that Mr. Clinton will also offer these proposals:

*The Transportation Department would provide $100 million next year to help pay
travel costs for welfare recipients so they could get jobs.

*The Government would offer new tax credits to employers who hire long-term
welfare recipients.

*Refugees would be allowed to receive welfare, food stamps and other Government
benefits for their first seven years in the United States. Under the new law,
such payments end after five years.

*New restrictions on food stamps for able-bodied adults would be relaxed. The
Government would not terminate their food stamp benefits unless they refused to
take jobs offered to them.

Under the new law, people 18 to 50 years old with no dependents may, in general,
receive food stamps for only three months in any 36-month period unless they are
working or taking part in a work program. Robert Greenstein, the director of the
Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, called the idea "one of the most
Draconian provisions in the history of the food stamp program" because it
terminates benefits for people who seek work but cannot find it.

In his new budget, Mr. Clinton requests money to subsidize jobs for 400,000 food
stamp recipients. He asks Congress to amend the welfare law so that able-bodied
adults without dependents could receive food stamps for six months a year
without working.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "LEDGER -- In Danger: Benefits"
The Clinton Administration is notifying legal immigrants receiving Supplemental
Security Income that they may lose the benefit, averaging $410 a month.
Three-quarters of those affected are concentrated in just four states; here are
the top 10.

1. California 391,620
2. New York 154,257
3. Florida 102,741
4. Texas 84,597
5. Illinois 34,246
6. Massachusetts 32,358
7. New Jersey 32,076
8. Pennsylvania 20,146
9. Washington 17,635
10. Georgia 15,942

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 8, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

A Window for Chinese Refugees

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 463 words


While politics and time march on, 55 Chinese refugees from the freighter Golden
Venture remain in legal limbo after more than three years in Federal detention.
A new provision in the Federal immigration law, approved by Congress and
President Clinton last fall, relaxes the legal standard used in considering
asylum for Chinese refugees. For statutory and humanitarian reasons, the
immigration authorities should review the asylum applications of the Golden
Venture passengers under the new standard and parole those who are not a threat
to public safety or likely to flee.

Of the 286 immigrants who arrived on the freighter in June 1993, more than a
third have been released or resettled in other countries and 99 have been
deported back to China. The rest have been in jail waiting for action on their
asylum applications. The sick and frightened passengers of the tramp freighter
had each paid their smugglers thousands of dollars for the four-month voyage
that began in the South China Sea. When the ship ran aground off Queens, 10 died
trying to swim to shore.

The immigrants sought asylum on the grounds that the Chinese Government had
subjected them to forced abortions, sterilizations and persecution for defying
its one-child-per-couple policy. The Bush Administration was relatively generous
in granting asylum to individuals escaping China's population-control measures.
The Clinton Administration has been less hospitable to that claim, fearing that
leniency would cause thousands more Chinese to come to these shores illegally.

That fear was understandable given the Haitian refugee crisis at the time. But
the Haitian emergency has abated, and there is little evidence of new
transoceanic smuggling of Chinese immigrants. In the meantime, granting asylum
to those in danger of physical harm from China's population-control methods has
been championed by anti-abortion and human rights forces in Congress.

Tucked into the new immigration law is a provision that makes resistance to
forced abortion or sterilization a political opinion and thus grounds for
asylum. Previously, refugees would have to show not only that they had opposed
the Chinese policy but had been singled out for persecution.

The new standard should make the claims of some of the Golden Venture immigrants
easier to prove. But to prevent Chinese refugees from flooding into the country,
Congress also limited the number of immigrants who could make such a claim to
1,000 a year. Putting a quota on asylum cases is unprecedented, and hard to
justify in principle. Nonetheless, it is a pragmatic approach to the difficult
act of balancing humanitarian aims against immigration policy. The status of the
Golden Venture immigrants should be re-evaluated in light of that compromise.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrants From Stranded Ship Are to Be Released

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words


The Clinton Administration decided yesterday to release all 53 remaining illegal
Chinese immigrants who have been detained by Federal immigration authorities
since the freighter Golden Venture ran aground off Queens three years and eight
months ago.

The men and women will be freed during the next three weeks if they pass
background checks to insure that they have no criminal records. They will be
under Federal supervision while their lengthy legal battles continue. Most have
asked for asylum in the United States on the ground that they were persecuted
for resisting the Chinese Government's population control policies.

The decision to release the passengers marks a sharp change in policy for the
Clinton Administration, which had taken the position that smuggled immigrants,
with few exceptions, should be detained until their claims were resolved, as a
deterrent to smuggling gangs.

But a White House official said President Clinton felt that their continued
incarceration no longer served any useful purpose. Congress passed a law last
year that, when it goes into effect on April 1, is expected to speed the
deportation of immigrants who try to enter the country illegally, providing a
sufficient deterrent to smugglers, said the official, who spoke on condition
that his name not be used.

The decision to free the Golden Venture detainees, most of whom are being held
at York County Prison in York, Pa., was greeted with jubilation by the lawyers
and volunteers who have worked on their behalf for years and developed a close
personal connection with the men and women behind bars.

"I'm shaking and trembling and crying," said Cindy Lobach, a volunteer who has
attended most of the 182 weekly candlelight vigils held at the prison.. "I'm
jumping up and down."

John Burgess, a lawyer in San Francisco who represents three women and two men
from the Golden Venture being detained in Bakersfield, Calif., said, "Finally. I
felt they had become political prisoners of the United States after almost four
years. It's an overdue act of mercy and justice."

Lawyers who represent the detainees said an article in The New York Times on
Feb. 3 and the intervention of a powerful politician brought the issue to a
turning point.

For months, the Administration had been considering whether to release the
remaining Golden Venture passengers. The immigrants' requests for asylum had
taken far longer to resolve than anyone expected. Then, last September, Congress
passed a law that made resistance to China's coercive population control
policies a ground for political asylum.

Immigration courts that had routinely denied such claims will now have to reopen
many of the Golden Venture cases in light of the new law, further prolonging the
immigrants' detention by as much as a year or more, officials said.

The news article, on the front page of The Times, focused on the continuing
detention of the Golden Venture detainees and the policy debate over the asylum
issues raised by their cases.

The next evening, as President Clinton left the lectern where he had delivered
his State of the Union message and walked through the applauding Congressmen, he
paused to chat briefly with Representative Bill Goodling, a Republican who
represents York, Pa., and who is also chairman of the House Education Committee.

"I said, 'Mr. President, you still have 38 Golden Venture Chinese in my York
County prison," Mr. Goodling said he told the President. "He told me, 'Yes, that
makes me angry. I just read about it in The New York Times.' "

On Wednesday, Representative Goodling visited Mr. Clinton at the White House for
a 40-minute one-on-one talk about education. Mr. Goodling said he again brought
up the Golden Venture cases. And he gave Mr. Clinton some of the artwork the
York detainees had fashioned during their years behind bars: an eagle made of
hundreds of tiny pieces of folded paper and a papier-mache tree.

"The President said, 'They're beautiful,' " Mr. Goodling said. "I said, 'They've
had four years to sit in prison and do that.' "

Yesterday afternoon, the President called the Congressman to say that he had
decided to release the immigrants. Mr. Goodling, asked whether he thought his
position as chairman of the House Education Committee had influenced Mr.
Clinton's decision, laughed heartily and said, "It's because he felt strongly
that an injustice had been done."

The White House official said the decision to release the Golden Venture
detainees was reached by the Administration, not unilaterally by the President.
"Obviously, the President favored the decision and that is a heavy vote," he
said. "but I don't want to characterize it as the President making a decision
over anyone's head."

The official said the decision had taken a long time because of "a lively
debate" within the Administration about whether releasing the smuggled
immigrants would encourage smugglers.

"Bureaucratic decisions take a long time to make," he said. "You've got to get
views and convince many agencies."

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service issued a press release
after the President telephoned Mr. Goodling yesterday, saying it had decided to
release the detainees "following discussions within the Administration."

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the agency, said the immigration
service had not yet decided whether the individuals who were released would be
required to post bond or how often they would have to report to the immigration
authorities.

"It's too early to expect us to have worked all that out yet," he said.

The Golden Venture, an aging freighter, ran aground on a sandbar off the
Rockaway Peninsula on June 3, 1993. Ten of its 286 passengers drowned in the
frigid, pounding surf that drizzly night. A few swam ashore and escaped, but
most were caught.

In the years since that night, 99 were sent back to China, more than a third
were released on various grounds or resettled in Latin American Countries, and
the rest remained in detention.

They arrived at a time when the Clinton Administration was embroiled in one
crisis involving illegal boat people -- Haitians trying to reach America in
rickety craft -- and feared Chinese immigrant smuggling was on the rise.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Golden Venture, a freighter trying to smuggle Chinese
refugees into this country, after it ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula in
Queens in June 1993. Many passengers were deported, but 53 are still being
detained. (Paul J. DeMaria) (pg. 28)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Enough Is Enough

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words


For 10 years now the United States has been trying to deport eight Palestinian
activists who live in California. The anniversary of their original arrest
occurred last month, and it should have been marked as setting a record for
stubborn wrongheadedness on the part of the United States Government.

The eight are supporters of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a
group that has carried out terrorist activities. But they have not themselves
committed or advocated terrorism -- a fact attested to by Judge William Webster
when he was director of the F.B.I.

When the case began, the Government charged that the eight were affiliated with
a group that "advocates world communism." That was a ground for deportation
under the McCarran-Walter Immigration Act. But the provision was held
unconstitutional, and in 1990 Congress repealed it.

Then the Immigration and Naturalization Service moved to deport the two
permanent residents among the eight for providing material support to a
terrorist organization, the P.F.L.P. (The other six were charged with technical
violations of their immigration status.)

Lawyers for the eight challenged the proceedings as selective prosecution,
because the I.N.S. has not tried to deport supporters of many non-Palestinian
groups that have committed terrorist acts, such as the Nicaraguan contras.

Federal District Judge Stephen Wilson issued injunctions against the deportation
proceedings. He found that the eight had carried out peaceful activities such as
raising humanitarian aid and selling newspapers -- activities protected by the
First Amendment -- and had indeed been selectively targeted.

That decision was upheld by a unanimous panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit. It held that non-citizens in this country have the same right
to free speech and association under the First Amendment as do citizens. The
court condemned the idea of guilt by association and said the eight could be
deported only on proof that they intended to assist illegal actions by the
P.F.L.P.

The Government did not try to take that ruling to the Supreme Court. Instead it
went back before Judge Wilson with 10,000 pages of what it asserted was evidence
that the eight intended to further P.F.L.P. terrorism.

The Government's "evidence" was in good part the product of F.B.I. surveillance
of the eight. It showed that they had attended political meetings, sold
magazines and the like. It also included an F.B.I. document urging that one of
the eight, Khader Hamide, be targeted because he showed "great leadership
ability" and his removal would "severely hamper" P.F.L.P. activity in southern
California.

After reading the 10,000 pages, Judge Wilson rejected the Government's claim. He
said the F.B.I. surveillance had found only peaceful activities protected by the
First Amendment.

Last month Government lawyers made a new argument, based on the restrictive
Immigration Act passed by Congress last year. They said a section of the act
required Judge Wilson to dismiss his injunctions and let the deportation cases
go ahead. The section allows judicial review only of a final order of
deportation, barring earlier lawsuits to stop illegal actions by the Immigration
Service.

Judge Wilson held that the restrictions in the 1996 law could not,
constitutionally, be applied in this case. The promise that there would be
judicial review at the end of years of proceedings was "a fiction," he said,
because a court could not then develop the facts on selective targeting of
individuals for their political views.

The Government's behavior in this case has outraged just about everyone who has
dealt with it. Last year Judge Wilson, who was appointed to the bench by
President Reagan, said he was disturbed by a Government lawyer's argument that
when the Government has a compelling interest, it "can do pretty much what it
wants to do."

The P.F.L.P. is not a sympathetic cause, to me or to most Americans. But our
constitutional freedom depends on not allowing the Government to break the rules
when it moves against unpopular individuals or interests. It is time for
Attorney General Janet Reno to end this outrageous case. Enough is enough.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 22, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Seeking Deportation Of Rebel Turned Informer

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 835 words


Nearly seven years after American officials secretly resettled a former
Salvadoran guerrilla commander in the United States and paid him thousands of
dollars for his services as an informant, the Clinton Administration is seeking
to have the man deported as a terrorist.

In a letter filed in immigration court this week to oppose a request for
political asylum by the former rebel, Pedro Antonio Andrade, a senior State
Department official said Mr. Andrade played "a critical, responsible role" in
the guerrillas' decision to stage a 1985 attack in San Salvador in which six
Americans were killed.

"We believe that Mr. Andrade was a senior member and leader of an organization
that frequently engaged in terrorism," the official, William M. Bartlett, wrote
to an immigration judge in Newark.

After fighting for years to overthrow American-backed Governments in El
Salvador, conspiring with the guerrillas who carried out the 1985 assault on a
group of United States marines, and then switching sides after his capture in
1990 to become an asset paid by the Central Intelligence Agency, Mr. Andrade is
now effectively a man without a country.

To qualify for refuge in the United States, Mr. Andrade must prove that there is
a well-founded fear he would be persecuted in El Salvador for his political
views or his membership "in a particular social group."

In immigration court proceedings that began on Wednesday, Mr. Andrade and his
lawyers argue that he could expect to be killed by vengeful former confederates
if he returned home. Before and during El Salvador's 12-year civil war, the
insurgents were believed to have killed scores of guerrillas who were judged to
have betrayed the cause.

A Salvadoran with wide contacts among the former rebels, Leonel Gomez, testified
on Wednesday that the rebels believed that the information Mr. Andrade had
provided to the Salvadoran security forces had led to the capture, torture or
disappearance of perhaps 200 guerrillas. American intelligence officials have
confirmed that Mr. Andrade led the Salvadoran military to the largest rebel arms
cache ever captured.

Officials in Washington said lawyers for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service will argue in part that Mr. Andrade should not receive asylum because he
was once a member of a group -- the leftist Salvadoran insurgency -- that
engaged in terrorism. The lawyers have also begun to argue that Mr. Andrade's
fears, however well-founded, have nothing to do with his political opinions or
his membership in any group.

"Ratting out your comrades does not fall under those grounds," one Justice
Department official said.

Officials said the Clinton Administration decided to seek Mr. Andrade's
deportation after lengthy investigations into the circumstances of his arrival
in the United States.

The inquiries found that although no laws were broken, Mr. Andrade was granted a
special visa to join his wife and children in the United States in 1990 despite
strong objections from lawyers at the Justice Department and the C.I.A.

Those officials concluded that there was not enough evidence to prosecute Mr.
Andrade. But they found that there was considerable information indicating that
he planned the 1985 attack in which four American marines, two American
businessmen and seven Latin Americans were killed in San Salvador.

The American diplomats who worked to gain Mr. Andrade's admission into the
United States have said in interviews that they did so in part because they
thought that the intelligence evidence against him was inconclusive. The
diplomats have also said they thought that the United States Government had to
live up to the bargain they had struck with Mr. Andrade at the urging of C.I.A.
officials in El Salvador. Almost from the moment of his capture, Mr. Andrade
said he would cooperate with the Government only if he and his family were
guaranteed safe passage to the United States. The C.I.A. officials endorsed that
deal, the diplomats contended, but later denied to investigators that they had
played any role in getting Mr. Andrade a visa.

Senators Richard C. Shelby of Alabama and Michael DeWine of Ohio, two
Republicans who have followed the case on behalf of the relatives of the slain
marines, have insisted in letters to President Clinton and other Administration
officials that whatever the rationale for bringing Mr. Andrade into the United
States at the time, it is no longer valid.

"This is one injustice that cries out that business as usual within our
government and your office be stopped," wrote Mr. Shelby, who is chairman of the
Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.

The former diplomat whose handling of Mr. Andrade's case at the United States
Embassy in San Salvador was most directly criticized in the investigations,
Richard J. Chidester, said he remained unconvinced by the political uproar.

"The worst thing I can imagine now," Mr. Chidester said in an interview, "is
Pedro Andrade going back to El Salvador and being killed."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 25, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Vast Negligence Reported In Granting of Citizenship

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24


The Clinton Administration allowed about 180,000 immigrants to become American
citizens before checks for criminal records had been completed, two House
Republicans said today.

In a drive that Republicans say was motivated by election-year politics, 1.3
million legal immigrants applied to become citizens from August 1995 to
September 1996. The Justice Department briefed the legislators on early results
of an audit the department ordered last year, which is now trying to determine
how many of the 180,000 unchecked immigrants had convictions for felonies like
murder or rape that would have disqualified them.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has said it rejected 18 percent of
the more than one million applicants in background checks last year. Those
rejected included people with criminal convictions. So in theory several
thousand convicted felons could have been among the 180,000 who were naturalized
without proper screening.

Of the remaining immigrant applications checked, the Justice Department has told
Congress that 71,557 people with arrest records became citizens, as well. Of
that total, 10,800 were arrested for felonies; if further checking finds that
some were convicted of felonies, they may be disqualified from citizenship, said
Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman. The remaining 60,757 were
found to have been arrested for administrative violations or misdemeanors that
would not disqualify an applicant for citizenship.

Republican lawmakers have said the Administration disregarded procedural
safeguards to meet its goal of naturalizing 1.3 million people in time to vote
in November.

"In its unprecedented push to rush through a million new citizens, potential
voters all, the I.N.S. may have allowed dangerous criminals on to our streets,"
said Representative Dennis Hastert, the Illinois Republican who heads the
Government Reform and Oversight subcommittee investigating the immigration
service's handling of the matter.

The immigration service has denied the accusations, saying its Citizenship USA
program had tried to deal with a surge in applications that had tripled from
342,000 in 1992.

Agency officials today cautioned against drawing too many conclusions from what
they said were preliminary audit figures, but they pledged to take away the
citizenship of anyone who did not deserve it.

"In any cases we find where someone was wrongly naturalized, we'll revoke that
citizenship," said Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the immigration agency.

That may be easier said than done. In the 1995 fiscal year, the latest year with
available figures, the agency revoked the citizenship of 20 people in procedures
that typically took months to complete. If the citizenship of hundreds or
thousands of people need to be revoked, that could pose an administrative
nightmare.

The immigration service acknowledged last fall that tens of thousands of
immigrants became citizens before the requisite checks were completed, including
30,000 in New York City.

But the numbers released today by two House Republicans far surpassed the
estimates that even the Administration's harshest critics had made.

"It's worse than I expected," said Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas
Republican who heads the Immigration Subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee. "This is a complete outrage and a travesty of what should be a
completely honest, straightforward and nonpolitical process."

The panels led by Mr. Hastert and Mr. Smith plan a hearing on March 5 to
investigate the problem.

Those figures were reported by Copley News Service today.

In response to the Congressional criticism in the fall, the immigration service
took steps intended to correct the problem. In December, the agency announced
that citizenship would not be granted until the Federal Bureau of Investigation
had completed an applicant's fingerprint check. In the past, the bureau had 60
days to complete the task, a deadline that was extended to 120 days in June. If
the F.B.I. had not returned the fingerprints within that time, the immigration
service assumed the applicant had no problems and was cleared to become a
citizen.

But in the last several months, employees of the immigration service have
complained that the system was badly flawed. A clerk in Los Angeles reported
that the fingerprint cards of 4,000 to 6,000 citizenship applicants had been
thrown in the garbage. The clerk's superviser denied her accusation.

As a result of the criticisms, the Justice Department ordered the immigration
service to review the more than one million applications processed since the
citizenship program started. KPMG Peat Marwick, the accounting firm, along with
the inspector general of the Justice Department and the General Accounting
Office, were directed to oversee the review.

The Assistant Attorney General for administration, Stephen R. Colgate, is
supervising the review and has briefed the Congressional committees two times,
Justice Department officials said.

Of the 180,000 cases with insufficient background verifications, fingerprint
checks were never completed on 113,126 because the forms were improperly
completed or the prints were smudged. In 66,398 cases, the immigration service
has found no record that it had ever asked the F.B.I. to check the applicants'
backgrounds.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 3, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Lawmakers to Discuss Budget

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 87 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


Helping legal immigrants become citizens, establishing drug courts in four
counties and providing health care for uninsured children are among the many
options state legislators will consider this week as they begin budget
negotiations.

Their review of Gov. Christine Todd Whitman's proposed $16.4 billion budget
starts Wednesday with a joint hearing of the Assembly and Senate Appropriations
Committees. The Governor must sign the Legislature's version of the budget
before the new fiscal year begins on July 1.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Admits 168 Errors In Bestowing Of Citizenship

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 4


Attorney General Janet Reno said today that the Clinton Administration awarded
citizenship last year to at least 168 immigrants who had been convicted of
felonies that should have disqualified them.

But that number could grow by several hundred or thousands in coming weeks once
a Justice Department audit is completed, Administration officials said.

The figures Ms. Reno gave a House panel today result from a review of 10,800
people who were arrested for felonies but were granted citizenship anyway
between August 1995 and September 1996. Auditors have reviewed 9,500 of the
10,800 cases. While the 168 wrongly naturalized immigrants represent fewer than
2 percent of the felony arrests, they are eight times the number of people whose
citizenship is normally revoked in any given year.

Auditors are also reviewing the records of an additional 180,000 immigrants who
became citizens before the checks for criminal records were completed.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said it rejected 18 percent of the
more than one million applicants in background checks last year. Those rejected
included people with criminal convictions. So in theory, several thousand
convicted felons could have been among the 180,000 who were naturalized without
proper screening.

In a drive that Republicans say was motivated by election-year politics, 1.3
million legal immigrants applied to become citizens between August 1995 and
September 1996.

Republican lawmakers today accused Ms. Reno and Doris M. Meissner, the
Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, of participating in a
voter-drive sham.

"You waived all standards to get them to vote in November!" said Representative
Harold Rogers, a Kentucky Republican who heads the House Appropriations
subcommittee on commerce, justice, state and the judiciary. The panel controls
financing for the immigration service, which is in the Justice Department.

But Mrs. Meissner firmly denied the accusations. "That's not what occurred," she
said. The Commissioner said that program was developed in 1995 to deal with a
surge in applications, to more than one million in the 1995 fiscal year from
543,000 the year before. "We were responding to consumer demand," Mrs. Meissner
said. "There was not a rush to make them citizens."

Mrs. Meissner also denied accusations that members of Vice President Al Gore's
reinventing government initiative improperly influenced the immigration agency's
standards or accelerated citizenship claims to meet the November election
deadline.

But the Commissioner acknowledged that the immigration agency had failed to
correct a flaw in the citizenship process that a Justice Department inspector
general report implicitly identified three years ago.

Since 1982, the immigration service had sent an applicant's fingerprint to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to check for any criminal record. If the F.B.I.
did not reply within 60 days, the I.N.S. assumed the immigrant had not run afoul
of the law and could become a citizen.

That system worked well so long as the volume of applicants was manageable. But
when the demand for citizenship suddenly surged among legal immigrants, partly
because of the anti-immigrant Proposition 187 in California and partly because
many immigrants granted amnesty in 1986 became eligible, the I.N.S. and F.B.I.
were unprepared.

By last summer, the immigration service realized that the F.B.I. was sending
back criminal records on immigrants much later than the usual 60-day time frame.
But by then, the immigrants had already been granted citizenship.

To help deal with the problem, the agency last June extended the fingerprint
deadline to 120 days. But that did not solve the problem. "It was management by
exception rather than 100 percent assurance," Mrs. Meissner said.

Indeed, a Justice Department inspector general report issued in February 1994
underscored the importance of providing adjudicators with complete background
portfolios before approving a citizenship application.

Last November, among reports that thousands of applicants were going unchecked,
the I.N.S. announced that no one would become a citizen until the F.B.I.
reported back one way or another.

Mrs. Meissner said today that "at the working level," officials at both agencies
were aware that the 60-day deadline had become hopelessly overwhelmed. "But the
failing was either the I.N.S. or the F.B.I. didn't grasp at the senior
management level what difficulties it would pose," Mrs. Meissner said.

Attorney General Reno said the continuing audit, the hiring of a consultant and
other expenses would cost up to $10 million.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
Doris Meissner, stood behind Attorney General Janet Reno yesterday to answer a
question from the House Appropriations Committee. (Amy Toensing for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

180,000 Were Naturalized Without a Full Check on Crimes

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 812 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5


The Immigration and Naturalization Service ignored Congressional auditors two
years ago when they made a recommendation to help prevent criminals from
becoming American citizens, and lawmakers said today that as a result 180,000
immigrants were naturalized last year without complete background checks.

Moreover, the immigration service only last week put in place a system to insure
that citizenship applicants' fingerprints are actually theirs. The Justice
Department inspector general warned three years ago that the old system was
vulnerable to criminal aliens' substituting someone else's fingerprints on their
applications for citizenship.

"These things take time," Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the service, said in
explaining the delay.

The disclosures came at the second House hearing in two days on flaws in the
Clinton Administration's citizenship program and cast doubt on whether hundreds
or perhaps thousands of immigrants, including convicted murderers, were wrongly
naturalized in the past year.

The Justice Department ordered an audit of the 1.1 million people who were
granted citizenship last year, including the 180,000 with incomplete background
checks. The review is to be finished by late May.

Republicans sharply criticized Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization today, asserting she had failed to heed the red
flags and had left the citizenship program a shambles at a time when record
numbers of immigrants were seeking to swear allegiance to the United States.

"You knew the problems were likely to be serious, you knew there were huge
numbers expected, you had constructive notice of the problem," Representative
Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who heads the House Judiciary's subcommittee
on immigration, told Mrs. Meissner.

"Either there was deception or negligence, and either is inexcusable," Mr. Smith
said.

Mrs. Meissner, sounding more contrite than she did on Tuesday before the House
panel that controls her agency's financing, said there was "no effort to
willfully mislead" Congress. Her agency took precautions, she said, but "the
solutions clearly weren't up to the problems."

Fingerprints submitted by immigrants applying for citizenship are sent to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine whether they belong to a convicted
criminal. Since 1982, the immigration service has presumed that if the bureau
does not turn up a criminal record in 60 days, the applicant can become a
citizen.

This system worked reasonably well as long as the volume of applications was
manageable. But when the numbers of applications jumped to more than one million
in the fiscal year 1996 from 543,000 in the previous year, the bureau was
swamped.  Before long, the immigration service was granting citizenship to
thousands of immigrants before their background checks were completed.

Mrs. Meissner has acknowledged that she never told her counterparts at the
F.B.I. to anticipate the increase that the immigration service had expected for
more than a year.

Auditors from the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress,
warned the immigration service about its policy of presuming that applicants had
no criminal history unless it heard otherwise. In a December 1994 report,
auditors recommended that the service get from the F.B.I. "all its record and
fingerprint checks, including those aliens who do not have criminal history
records" and provide that information to immigration adjudicators before
deciding an applicant's case.

The service agreed with the finding, but then never acted on it..

"We didn't have any evidence the problem was ever fixed," Laurie E. Ekstrand, an
associate director for administration of justice at the accounting office, told
lawmakers today.

In the face of growing public outrage over mounting backlogs, the agency finally
announced last November that it would not grant citizenship to anyone until the
F.B.I. sent results back.

But even if the bureau did check the fingerprints, there was no assurance that
the fingerprints belonged to the applicant.

"Most applicants complete the fingerprint cards at privately owned photography
shops," the Justice Department inspector general said in a report in February
1994.

"There are no effective controls to prevent individuals intent on hiding their
criminal records from having someone else complete the fingerprint cards at
these shops and then submitting the prints as their own," the report concluded.

Once again, the immigration service agreed that the problem existed and that the
proposed solution was a proper one. But it was only last Saturday that a new
system took effect that requires those who issue the fingerprint cards to
register with and receive training from the immigration service. The service
will also inspect the companies it certifies.



LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Backlog Threatens Immigrants With Benefits Loss

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER  By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan DeskSection A;Page 1;Column
3;Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words


The backlog in processing citizenship applications has grown so large that many
immigrants will almost certainly lose their welfare benefits because they cannot
get citizenship credentials before an August deadline, Federal immigration
officials say.

The slowdown in approving the applications began late last year. Officials said
then that they hoped it would be temporary, but so far it has persisted. And in
recent months, the number of immigrants applying to become citizens has grown,
greatly increasing the number of people in the pipeline.

The longer wait for citizenship could not have happened at a worse time,
advocates for immigrants say. Elderly and disabled people who are not citizens
are, with some exceptions, scheduled to lose their benefits in August and
September as a result of a welfare law adopted last year.
 David Rosenberg, who heads the citizenship program at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said that once an application is filed, the
naturalization process now takes nine months or longer in New York City, Los
Angeles and Miami, an increase from five or six months last year.

The Social Security Administration last month began notifying 544,000 aged and
disabled immigrants -- 86,000 in New York City -- that they will lose their
benefits in five or six months if they have not been naturalized by then.

"I'm very scared," said Salvador De Leon, a 76-year old retired carpenter from
the Dominican Republic who lives alone in a rented room in Washington Heights
and receives Supplemental Security Income. "I can't work because I have a weak
heart and S.S.I. is my only income."

Federal officials say three factors have slowed the processing of citizenship
applications: a computer system relying on obsolete software, a large increase
in the volume of applicants, and more stringent, time-consuming procedures for
criminal background checks.
 The panicky rush to naturalize, visible in New York City centers for the
elderly where immigrants are rolling to citizenship classes in wheelchairs and
filling out applications with trembling hands, has helped drive the number of
citizenship seekers to a record high in recent months. From October to December,
the number of people applying for citizenship rose 55 percent nationally and 96
percent in New York City compared with the same period the year before.
Immigration officials expect 1.8 million people to apply this year.

In New York, the state, the city and the philanthropist George Soros's nonprofit
Emma Lazarus Fund are planning to put up a total of $4 million to help
immigrants apply for naturalization this year.

But the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella association of more than 100
groups that serve immigrants, estimates that it would cost $17 million, or $200
a person, just to provide citizenship classes and other help to the old and
disabled people expected to have their benefits cut off in New York City.

Those who lose Federal Supplemental Security Income and food stamps, typically
worth $600 to $650 a month in New York, could then apply for about $350 a month
from a welfare program financed by the state and city. But there is now a 45-day
waiting period before an applicant can qualify for aid, a delay that advocates
say would leave thousands of immigrants with no income for at least a month and
a half.

Social workers, doctors and others who assist this vulnerable population of
immigrants say they are worried not only that the immigrants will temporarily
lose benefits that pay for rent and food until they can be naturalized, but also
that the very old will be too anxious and forgetful to learn enough English and
American civics to pass the citizenship test.

Enriqueta Echeverria, a 78-year-old widow from Ecuador who lives in Washington
Heights, in Manhattan, admits she is very nervous about taking the test. She was
confident as she named the colors of the American flag but grew flustered when
asked to name the introduction to the United States Constitution.

"The Supreme Court?" she tentatively asked, knowing she was wrong. (It's known
as the Preamble.) "I study every morning, but sometimes I forget."

Mr. Rosenberg, of the immigration service, said that citizenship would not be a
solution for many immigrants. Some will not be eligible because they have not
been legal residents for five years. Others will fail the test or become
citizens too late to avoid losing their federal benefits temporarily.

"We're trying to lower expectations," he said. "There are a lot of people who
won't qualify, and logistically it's going to be hard for people who are not
already in the process to become citizens before the deadlines."

This week, the immigration service was harshly questioned by Republican
Congressmen at several hearings about the 180,000 immigrants who were
naturalized without undergoing criminal background checks. The Congressmen said
the immigrants were made citizens as part of a the Clinton Administration's
politically motivated push to generate voters for the November election, while
immigration officials contended that the failure to perform the background
checks was the result of a flawed system swamped with record numbers of cases.

Whatever the reasons for the problem, the solution imposed in December -- that
the immigration service must receive a written clearance for each citizenship
applicant from the Federal Bureau of Investigation before the oath is
administered -- has significantly slowed the nationwide naturalization process.

In June, 187,281 people were naturalized nationally, 43,138 of them in New York
City. In December, the number of people naturalized plummeted to 42,281
nationally, and 7,291 in New York.

Not surprisingly, the number of immigrants waiting in line to become citizens
has grown to about one million, from 700,000 last year.

"For the last few months, we have been particularly slow," Mr. Rosenberg of the
immigration service said. "If you look ahead at the current low rates of
production, it's very scary. We had a couple of districts that swore in almost
no one."

But Mr. Rosenberg said he believed the pace would pick up as computer problems
are fixed and the new process for criminal background checks becomes
established.

The 15-year-old computer software that serves the New York district was built to
handle a fraction of the volume of citizenship cases and is written in a
language that is now "completely obsolete," Mr. Rosenberg said. Just a handful
of people even know how to write in the language the computer understands.

"They keep telling us it's just about fixed," he said.

Advocates for immigrants say they fear that the computer system will continue to
malfunction. And they also worry that the immigration service is being overly
optimistic about how quickly it can gear back up, especially as it starts
working with a growing number of old and disabled people who will take more time
to process.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Backlog Threatens Immigrants With Benefits Loss

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words


The backlog in processing citizenship applications has grown so large that many
immigrants will almost certainly lose their welfare benefits because they cannot
get citizenship credentials before an August deadline, Federal immigration
officials say.

The slowdown in approving the applications began late last year. Officials said
then that they hoped it would be temporary, but so far it has persisted. And in
recent months, the number of immigrants applying to become citizens has grown,
greatly increasing the number of people in the pipeline.

The longer wait for citizenship could not have happened at a worse time,
advocates for immigrants say. Elderly and disabled people who are not citizens
are, with some exceptions, scheduled to lose their benefits in August and
September as a result of a welfare law adopted last year.
 David Rosenberg, who heads the citizenship program at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said that once an application is filed, the
naturalization process now takes nine months or longer in New York City, Los
Angeles and Miami, an increase from five or six months last year.

The Social Security Administration last month began notifying 544,000 aged and
disabled immigrants -- 86,000 in New York City -- that they will lose their
benefits in five or six months if they have not been naturalized by then.

"I'm very scared," said Salvador De Leon, a 76-year old retired carpenter from
the Dominican Republic who lives alone in a rented room in Washington Heights
and receives Supplemental Security Income. "I can't work because I have a weak
heart and S.S.I. is my only income."

Federal officials say three factors have slowed the processing of citizenship
applications: a computer system relying on obsolete software, a large increase
in the volume of applicants, and more stringent, time-consuming procedures for
criminal background checks.
 The panicky rush to naturalize, visible in New York City centers for the
elderly where immigrants are rolling to citizenship classes in wheelchairs and
filling out applications with trembling hands, has helped drive the number of
citizenship seekers to a record high in recent months. From October to December,
the number of people applying for citizenship rose 55 percent nationally and 96
percent in New York City compared with the same period the year before.
Immigration officials expect 1.8 million people to apply this year.

In New York, the state, the city and the philanthropist George Soros's nonprofit
Emma Lazarus Fund are planning to put up a total of $4 million to help
immigrants apply for naturalization this year.

But the New York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella association of more than 100
groups that serve immigrants, estimates that it would cost $17 million, or $200
a person, just to provide citizenship classes and other help to the old and
disabled people expected to have their benefits cut off in New York City.

Those who lose Federal Supplemental Security Income and food stamps, typically
worth $600 to $650 a month in New York, could then apply for about $350 a month
from a welfare program financed by the state and city. But there is now a 45-day
waiting period before an applicant can qualify for aid, a delay that advocates
say would leave thousands of immigrants with no income for at least a month and
a half.

Social workers, doctors and others who assist this vulnerable population of
immigrants say they are worried not only that the immigrants will temporarily
lose benefits that pay for rent and food until they can be naturalized, but also
that the very old will be too anxious and forgetful to learn enough English and
American civics to pass the citizenship test.

Enriqueta Echeverria, a 78-year-old widow from Ecuador who lives in Washington
Heights, in Manhattan, admits she is very nervous about taking the test. She was
confident as she named the colors of the American flag but grew flustered when
asked to name the introduction to the United States Constitution.

"The Supreme Court?" she tentatively asked, knowing she was wrong. (It's known
as the Preamble.) "I study every morning, but sometimes I forget."

Mr. Rosenberg, of the immigration service, said that citizenship would not be a
solution for many immigrants. Some will not be eligible because they have not
been legal residents for five years. Others will fail the test or become
citizens too late to avoid losing their federal benefits temporarily.

"We're trying to lower expectations," he said. "There are a lot of people who
won't qualify, and logistically it's going to be hard for people who are not
already in the process to become citizens before the deadlines."

This week, the immigration service was harshly questioned by Republican
Congressmen at several hearings about the 180,000 immigrants who were
naturalized without undergoing criminal background checks. The Congressmen said
the immigrants were made citizens as part of a the Clinton Administration's
politically motivated push to generate voters for the November election, while
immigration officials contended that the failure to perform the background
checks was the result of a flawed system swamped with record numbers of cases.

Whatever the reasons for the problem, the solution imposed in December -- that
the immigration service must receive a written clearance for each citizenship
applicant from the Federal Bureau of Investigation before the oath is
administered -- has significantly slowed the nationwide naturalization process.

In June, 187,281 people were naturalized nationally, 43,138 of them in New York
City. In December, the number of people naturalized plummeted to 42,281
nationally, and 7,291 in New York.

Not surprisingly, the number of immigrants waiting in line to become citizens
has grown to about one million, from 700,000 last year.

"For the last few months, we have been particularly slow," Mr. Rosenberg of the
immigration service said. "If you look ahead at the current low rates of
production, it's very scary. We had a couple of districts that swore in almost
no one."

But Mr. Rosenberg said he believed the pace would pick up as computer problems
are fixed and the new process for criminal background checks becomes
established.

The 15-year-old computer software that serves the New York district was built to
handle a fraction of the volume of citizenship cases and is written in a
language that is now "completely obsolete," Mr. Rosenberg said. Just a handful
of people even know how to write in the language the computer understands.

"They keep telling us it's just about fixed," he said.

Advocates for immigrants say they fear that the computer system will continue to
malfunction. And they also worry that the immigration service is being overly
optimistic about how quickly it can gear back up, especially as it starts
working with a growing number of old and disabled people who will take more time
to process.


LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 7, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 130 words



To the Editor:

Contrary to Anthony Lewis's Feb. 28 column criticizing the new immigration law,
only aliens who are "aggravated felons," those convicted of the most serious
crimes, are barred from seeking relief from deportation. They should not be
entitled to clog the Federal courts.

Also, those claiming asylum at the border must only establish a significant
possibility that their claim will ultimately be granted to gain access to the
full asylum process. That includes the right to review by a judge outside the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The overwhelming bipartisan vote in support of the new law speaks for itself.

(Rep.) LAMAR SMITH
Washington, Feb. 28, 1997

The writer is chairman of the House Immigration and Claims Subcommittee.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 12, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New York Wins An Extension On Food Stamps For Immigrants

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 621 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, March 11


Tens of thousands of legal immigrants in New York State who faced the loss of
food stamps next month under the new Federal welfare law will get a reprieve of
almost five months, the Pataki administration announced today.

State officials said they had sought and received a waiver from the Clinton
Administration allowing local governments to continue the benefits through Aug.
22.

Since food stamps are paid for by the Federal Government, the extension, which
affects 150,000 to 250,000 immigrants in New York State, will cost the state
nothing.

Aides to Gov. George E. Pataki said he was extending the benefits in the hope
that Congress and President Clinton would decide in the interim to soften some
of the harsher aspects of the welfare law enacted last year, particularly
provisions affecting legal immigrants.

But many advocates for the poor said they did not expect Congress to change the
law significantly.

State officials said the extension would also give immigrants more time to apply
for an exemption that could allow some to keep their benefits permanently.

Although they support many provisions of the new welfare law, both Mr. Pataki
and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani have argued that it unfairly penalizes legal
immigrants. Most of those affected live in New York City, and a spokesman for
the Mayor today praised the state's move to extend the benefits.

Advocates for immigrants also hailed the Governor's decision, saying they
expected that most, if not all, counties would take advantage of the Governor's
policy and extend benefits through Aug. 22.

A total of 2.1 million people in New York State receive food stamps.

Under the Federal welfare law, most legal immigrants who had been receiving food
stamps and other welfare benefits were to lose those benefits by April 1.

But the law exempts a few classes of immigrants, including refugees, people on
active military duty and people who could prove that they had worked in the
United States for a total of 10 years or more.

The Governor's aides said that extending benefits into August -- the longest
extension allowed under the Federal law -- would give people additional time to
gather documents needed to prove their eligibility for those exemptions.
Advocates have estimated that perhaps 10 percent to 20 percent of immigrants
could qualify for an exemption.

The aides noted that the extension would be especially helpful to people who
were trying to collect records showing that they had worked for 10 years.

"He's doing this to allow people as much time as possible to get their
documentation together to show they should continue to be eligible," said
Terrance McGrath, a spokesman for the state's Department of Social Services. "We
wanted to give people the longest time possible under Federal law."

Tony Coles, senior adviser to Mayor Giuliani, said the city would definitely
take advantage of the extension. "This is a good thing to do and we will be part
of it," he said.

Liz Krueger, associate director of the Community Food Resource Center, a
nonprofit advocacy group, said that the average allocation of food stamps to a
family of three was $240 a month. "Over five months, that's an additional
$1,200," she said. "When you are talking about families that have incomes below
the poverty level and many of whom are facing reductions in other benefits, I'll
take the $1,200."

But while she praised Mr. Pataki's action, Ms. Krueger noted that it would not
cost the state anything. "It's no skin off his budget to keep immigrants on food
stamps as long as possible," she said. "It's another way he can show he cares
and is trying to do right by immigrants in without having to put a dollar on the
table."


LOAD-DATE: March 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Says Mental Impairment Might Be a Bar to Citizenship

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1438 words


Under new Federal rules announced yesterday, legal immigrants who cannot
knowingly take an oath of allegiance to the United States because they are
disabled by Alzheimer's disease, severe retardation or other mental impairments
will be unable to become citizens.

A 1994 law exempted seriously disabled immigrants from English proficiency and
civics requirements, but the rules announced yesterday made clear that these
same immigrants will not be exempted from taking the citizenship oath.

The rules come after Congress passed a separate welfare law last year that
denies welfare benefits to elderly and disabled legal immigrants who are not
citizens. The two laws together mean that the most severely mentally handicapped
immigrants will lose Federal welfare benefits in five or six months because they
cannot become citizens.

In seven states -- Texas, Alabama, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Wyoming and
Delaware -- elderly and disabled legal immigrants who have not become citizens
by the deadline will also have their Medicaid benefits cut off unless those
states change their laws, Federal officials said.

Federal officials say they do not know how many of the disabled legal immigrants
now receiving benefits are mentally incompetent.

The Social Security Administration is now in the process of notifying 544,000
elderly and disabled immigrants -- 86,000 of them in New York City -- that they
will lose their Supplemental Security Income if they have not become naturalized
citizens by a deadline that takes effect in August for some, September for
others.

News of the new rules yesterday sent a shudder of fear through the relatives of
the severely mentally impaired.

"So they have to be able to take the oath?" said Helene Calderon, whose
81-year-old grandmother, Fredesvinda Marmol, a Dominican immigrant living in
Washington Heights, has Alzheimer's and cannot remember her own name. "Oh, my
God."

President Clinton has proposed restoring S.S.I. benefits to legal immigrants who
became disabled after entering the United States, but his proposal is part of
budget negotiations with Congress that will go on for months.

Republican leaders have opposed benefits to legal noncitizen immigrants, who
they believe have abused the system, using it as a substitute pension system and
a way for immigrants to avoid supporting elderly relatives they brought into the
country.

Representative Clay Shaw, a Republican from South Florida who was the chief
sponsor of the welfare law and is chairman of the human resources subcommittee
of the House Ways and Means Committee, said yesterday that proposals to restore
benefits are simply too costly. He said he favors a two- or three-year block
grant to states to help elderly and disabled immigrants who lose their Federal
benefits.

His spokeswoman, Donna Boyer, acknowledged: "It would be a Band-Aid approach. It
would not permanently help the people who didn't become citizens."

But Representative Shaw said he is confident that the number of very severely
mentally incompetent people will shrink over the years of the block grant
"simply because of natural attrition."

"The death rate will see that that population shrinks in those two to three
years. There will be some left but it will be much smaller, and if necessary,
we'll revisit the issue then. We're not going to see people pushed out of
nursing homes onto the sidewalk with no one to care for them."

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service announced the new
rules, which go into effect today, almost two and a half years after Congress
passed a law to exempt mentally and physically disabled legal immigrants seeking
citizenship from requirements that they prove their English proficiency and
knowledge of American civics.

The rules released yesterday spell out who qualifies for the exemptions (those
whose disabilities make them unable to demonstrate an understanding of English
or civics), which doctors can certify a person's disability (doctors licensed in
the United States who have experience diagnosing such impairments), and the
immigration service's right to ask for a second opinion from another doctor if
it doubts the claim.

The immigration service has estimated that 300,000 people may apply for the
exemption from the English and civics tests.

Despite the waivers for the English and civics tests, immigration officials said
they decided they could not waive the oath of citizenship for those too mentally
impaired to understand they are taking it.

"The oath is a thorny legal issue," said Terrance O'Reilly, acting assistant
commissioner for naturalization. "The way the naturalization section is written,
each person has to take the oath. There was no wiggle room."

The immigration service will try to be flexible about ways that immigrants can
show they understand they are becoming citizens and forswearing allegiance to
their homelands. If they can communicate only by nodding their heads or blinking
their eyes, that would be acceptable, officials said.

Naturalization examiners will decide whether an applicant can knowingly take the
oath. The examiners are not required to have college degrees, though immigration
officials say most have them.

They receive 14 weeks of training at an academy in Georgia to qualify for the
task. Immigrants whose applications are denied can reapply or file an appeal to
the immigration service.

Advocates for disabled immigrants say the immigration service has taken such a
long time to issue the regulations that many immigrants who are ultimately able
to become citizens because of the new waivers of the English and civics tests
will not be able to do so before the deadline for losing their benefits.

They will be joining a general stampede to citizenship at a time when the
immigration service's processing of citizenship applications has slowed because
of the huge volume, an obsolete computer system and more stringent procedures
for criminal background checks. There are now about a million people in line to
become citizens, and the wait has grown to nine months or more, immigration
officials say.

"These regulations are too little, too late," said Representative Ileana
Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican from Miami who is herself a naturalized citizen.
"This bill was passed in October 1994 and it's taken the I.N.S. two and a half
years to come out with regulations. We've had thousands of constituents twisting
in the wind in that time."

Mr. O'Reilly, of the immigration service, said that he wishes the rules could
have been prepared more quickly but that immigration officials had to engage in
time-consuming consultations with several federal agencies, as well as advocates
for the immigrants.

"It would have been nice if they had come out sooner, but this is the
Government," he said. "We have so many bases we have to touch."

As to whether the immigration service will be able to process the applications
of the disabled before the benefits cutoff deadline, Mr. O'Reilly said, "The
I.N.S. will adjudicate the cases as fairly as possible and will try to complete
as many as we can by August, but there are no guarantees, of course."

For the families of mentally incompetent immigrants who are likely to lose their
benefits, the new rules are a frightening jolt.

Luz Gross, an 88-year-old widow from the Dominican Republic, is one of those
with severe Alzheimer's. She lives alone in an apartment in Washington Heights,
a tiny, stooped woman whose lips are sunken and whose home attendant had neatly
brushed her hair into a ponytail and painted her nails on a recent day. Mrs.
Gross receives $570 a month from Supplemental Security Income.

With help from her social worker, Patricia Hernandez-Kenis, who works at a
geriatric clinic that is part of Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital, Mrs. Gross
applied for citizenship last month, but it seems unlikely she will qualify.

Asked when she was born, Mrs. Gross said, "When I came to the United States, I
wasn't born." Asked if she wanted to become a citizen, she began talking about
her childhood when she lived close to the sea in Santo Domingo.

Mrs. Gross's only child, Felix, is 72 himself, retired and living on $10,320 a
year from Social Security and a small union pension he earned after working for
18 years as a building handyman in Manhattan. He visits his mother every day,
repairing whatever breaks in her apartment and watching television with her.

But he said he cannot afford to support her. And there is no room for her to
live in his small one-bedroom apartment.

"I feel in denial," he said. "I can't believe this is happening."

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fredesvinda Marmol, 81, an immigrant with Alzheimer's disease.
New rules could prevent her from becoming a naturalized citizen. (Librado
Romero/The New York Times) (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 57 words


"It's a situation of complete and utter chaos and confusion among immigrant
communities, immigration lawyers who don't know what advice to give, and among
the I.N.S. personnel who have to administer the law."

JEANNE A. BUTTERFIELD, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, on the immigration laws. [B2]

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Pushes Plan To Change Welfare Law

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 783 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


Faced with the impending cutoff of Federal benefits for 200,000 legal immigrants
in New York City, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani came here today to lobby Senate
Republicans for a change in the new welfare law that would minimize the effect
on immigrants already in the country.

The Mayor met with his on-and-off rival, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York,
who said he agreed with Mr. Giuliani on the need for a "grandfather" provision
that would allow legal immigrants already in the United States to retain the
right to receive food stamps and Supplemental Security Income, which provides
benefits to the elderly and disabled. Under the current law, legal immigrants
who are not citizens will lose these benefits on Aug. 22.

The two officials also spoke to Senator Trent Lott, the Republican majority
leader, whom they described as noncommittal but willing to consider the idea.

A telephone message to Mr. Lott seeking comment was not returned.

Mr. Giuliani and other like-minded governors and mayors face an uphill battle in
persuading Congress to consider such a major change to the welfare law, which
was signed by President Clinton last fall. Not only are many conservative
legislators opposed to the idea but the proposal also could cost more than $2
billion a year and would complicate budget negotiations now taking place. The
removal of benefits from immigrants represents about 44 percent of the $54.6
billion savings in the welfare law.

Senator D'Amato, who voted for the welfare bill, said that passage of a
grandfather provision would be "tough," because of the budgetary impact, but
that he was more optimistic that the Aug. 22 date could be delayed by as much as
a year to cushion the impact on immigrants, and on the cities and states likely
to pick up much of the cost. The four states most affected by the cutoff are New
York, California, Florida and Texas.

In a speech to an immigration conference today, Mayor Giuliani asserted that
preserving basic benefits for immigrants who pay taxes represents the most
elemental level of governmental fairness.

"You don't treat people unfairly like that," he said in an address to the Center
for Migration Studies at Georgetown University, which presented him an award for
his pro-immigration positions. "A government that does that changes the nature
of the kind of government that it is. If you're going to let people in and
charge them the full rates you charge anyone else, then if they have
difficulties, as some percentage of them will have because human life is not
perfect, then they should be treated in exactly the same way."

City officials say there are about 75,000 legal immigrants in New York City now
receiving S.S.I. benefits, and an additional 135,000 people receiving food
stamps. Because the city and the state are considered obligated under the State
Constitution to pick up the cost of those benefits, the cutoff could cost the
two New York governments about $450 million a year, according to Giuliani
administration estimates.

President Clinton has also urged Congress to restore benefits for legal
immigrants, as have several governors, including George E. Pataki of New York.
But Republican Congressional leaders have been skeptical.

Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr. of Florida, chairman of a key House subcommittee
that controls the issue, said recently that the welfare bill would not be
reopened and that restoring benefits would be too costly. He has proposed a two-
or three-year block grant to states to help elderly or disabled immigrants, but
the solution would be temporary.

Senator D'Amato said a delay in the cutoff -- the Mayor's second choice, after
the grandfather provision -- might allow more immigrants to become citizens,
although many of those affected are too disabled to take the oath. If they are
cut off from benefits, Mr. Giuliani said, it could change the image of America.

"The message would become that America is an unfair place to come to, because it
takes your money and it doesn't treat you fairly," the Mayor said in his speech,
his voice crackling from a cold. "That would be a different kind of America than
the one that built up over 200 years."

The Mayor, joined by Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew, also met with Attorney
General Janet Reno to urge the Justice Department not to overturn a new state
law that gives the Chancellor more power to supervise community school
districts. The department has been investigating whether the school governance
law violates the Federal Voting Rights Act, but the Mayor contended that the act
was not applicable.

Ms. Reno, who also met with Mr. Crew last week, said she would issue her
decision soon, city officials said.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 22, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Says Immigrants Must Apply by Mail

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 481 words


Hundreds of anxious immigrants who hoped to apply for legal status at the
Federal Building in lower Manhattan were instead sent away with a flier
yesterday. It explained how to apply by mail and promised that their
applications would be processed promptly.

For weeks the streets outside the offices of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service have been a de facto campground for immigrants, who lined up in the
middle of the night to make sure they could begin their application process with
an immigration official the next morning. They believed that under a new Federal
immigration law they would be deported unless they applied by April 1.

But immigration officials, who said April 1 is not a deadline, decided to put an
end to the long lines, and declared that the office would be closed for
in-person applications. Immigrants were told to mail applications to a district
office and wait for confirmation of an appointment, which, they were told, they
would receive within two weeks of mailing their application.

"We put this into effect when we noticed lines had effectively doubled in the
last few days," said Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the New York office of the
immigration service.

He said officials had become worried about building security and the possibility
of conflicts with frustrated applicants who managed to find their way into the
building despite announcements that the office had already processed all the
applications it could for the day. "For people's safety, we have to do this,"
Mr. Thorn said.

So by mid-morning yesterday, all that remained outside the Federal Building were
the metal dividers and a canvas tent that had been set up to help create orderly
lines.

Federal officials have insisted that fears of deportations beginning on April 1
are unfounded because the real deadline is Sept. 30. They added that the Clinton
Administration has asked Congress to extend the deadline further.

Federal immigration officials in Washington said the level of confusion over the
impact of the complex new immigration law had varied from city to city, and that
the rush to apply for legal status seemed to be most severe in New York. New
York also was the only city to switch to a strictly mail-in procedure, said Bill
Strassberger, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington.

Despite assurances from immigration officials that the mail-in procedure would
be more efficient, many immigrants were skeptical yesterday.

Lina Florez, 16, said she waited from 3 A.M. to 10 A.M. Thursday morning and was
told to return on Friday, only to be presented with the mail-in option when she
arrived at 6:30 A.M.

"I don't know if they'll finish my application," she said. "I don't think so.
Because what did they do? They made people stand outside. There's too many
immigrants in this country for them to do all their applications in time."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A recent immigrant from South America distributing photograph
and fingerprint information to others outside the Federal Building. (Edward
Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Holds Saudi In Bombing of G.I.'s

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 143 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, March 22


Canada's security agency said today that immigration officials had arrested a
Saudi man who is reportedly a suspect in the bombing in Saudi Arabia in June
that killed 19 United States soldiers and wounded 500 others. In Washington, the
F.B.I. said it wanted to question the individual.

A spokesman for the Canadian agency said the Saudi, Rahim al-Sayegh, had been
arrested under a warrant signed by the Solicitor General and the Immigration
Minister.  The F.B.I. said the Saudi Government had provided "invaluable
assistance leading to the identification and location of al-Sayegh."

Gaetan Blais, an officer at the Canadian Security Intelligence Service, said he
could give no further details, including the age or occupation of Mr. Sayegh. He
said a judge would hear the case in a closed hearing, and could call for Mr.
Sayegh's deportation.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 25, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 24 words


An article on Sunday about immigration fraud misspelled the surname of an
immigration lawyer in Flushing, Queens. He is Robert Belluscio.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 26, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Suit to Contest Cutoff Of U.S. Benefits to Immigrants

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 770 words


Building on his steady national campaign against the immigration provisions of
the new welfare law, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani plans to file suit today -- in an
unusual alliance with liberal legal groups around the country -- charging that
the law's cutoff of Federal benefits to legal immigrants is unconstitutional.

The suit, which the Mayor first announced last September, is the latest of
several moves he has made in the last year to position himself as a national
spokesman for the rights of immigrants. At forums and symposiums in Washington,
Boston and Minneapolis, he has repeatedly delivered strongly worded speeches
praising the value of immigrants to the country's well-being and has put
together a coalition of like-minded celebrities to spread the message.

Although other mayors and governors around the country have complained about the
effects of the new welfare and immigration laws on their budgets, Mr. Giuliani
has been the only prominent official to file suit -- now twice -- against the
laws.

Last October, he sued the Federal Government to block a provision in the laws
that allows city employees to turn in illegal immigrants who seek services like
police protection, hospital care and public education.

Today's suit, to be filed in Federal District Court in Manhattan, charges that
the removal of food stamps and cash benefits for elderly and disabled legal
immigrants who are not citizens violates the due process clause of the Fifth
Amendment to the Constitution. The suit seeks a permanent injunction against the
parts of the new welfare and immigration laws that cut off the benefits.

At the same time, a coalition of public-interest legal organizations in New York
and San Francisco -- including the Legal Aid Society, the Center for
Constitutional Rights and the American Civil Liberties Union of Northern
California -- will file class-action lawsuits in both cities today also
challenging the constitutionality of the laws. Although the suits are separate
from the city's, they are likely to be consolidated.

The Giuliani administration usually finds itself on the opposite side of court
from many of the same organizations it is now working with. The Center for
Constitutional Rights has repeatedly sued the city over such issues as
privatizing city hospitals and removing squatters from city-owned buildings, and
Legal Aid regularly battles it over the treatment of the homeless and other
matters.

In this case, however, all sides found a common purpose.

"When the Mayor's right, the Mayor's right," said Nancy Chang, a senior
litigation lawyer at the Center for Constitutional Rights. "He's taken the right
position on this issue, so we look forward to working with him, and cooperating
with him on the two cases."

The Mayor said almost exactly the same thing: "On this particular issue, we see
eye to eye. This is the right side to be on."

Mr. Giuliani strongly supports the most important elements of the welfare law,
including its workfare requirements and its cutoff of most public assistance
after five years. But in opposing the elimination of benefits for legal
immigrants, the Mayor has found an issue that gives him a prominent national
profile, and also pays large political dividends in a city where immigrants and
their descendants make up a large portion of the electorate.

New York City has about 75,000 elderly and disabled legal immigrants who will
lose their Supplemental Security Income benefits under the law beginning Aug.
22, and 135,000 legal immigrants who will lose their food stamps. Because the
city and the state are obligated under the state Constitution to pick up the
cost of those benefits, the cutoff could cost both New York governments about
$450 million a year in Home Relief payments, according to Giuliani
administration estimates.

That expense, clearly one of the Mayor's other prime motivations in pressing the
case, also forms the basis for the city's standing to sue the Federal
Government, city lawyers said. The suit argues that the Federal law harms the
city, and harms immigrants in a punitive way as a means of trying to prevent
further immigration to this country.

"This was not a regulation of immigration," Mr. Giuliani said in an interview.
"In substance what this really was, was budget balancing. The people that have
been broadly disqualified from benefits will not be removed from the United
States; they will be left in the United States, and therefore they are in
essence becoming obligations of the city and state in which they're left. It's a
way of shifting billions of dollars off the Federal budget."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Sues Government Over Benefits for Immigrants

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 467 words


Joined by an unlikely coalition of legal allies, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani filed
suit yesterday against the Federal Government, seeking to overturn provisions of
the new welfare law that cut off benefits to legal immigrants.

The lawsuit, filed in United States District Court in Manhattan, charges that
the withdrawal of benefits in the law is unconstitutional because it violates
the rights of due process and equal protection protected by the Fifth Amendment.

The 110,000 elderly and disabled legal immigrants in New York City who will lose
their Supplemental Security Income benefits beginning Aug. 22 paid their taxes
and did not violate the law, the lawsuit says, but are now likely to become
"destitute and homeless" unless the city begins paying for their care. About
70,000 immigrants will also lose their food stamps at the same time.

A coalition of legal aid and civil rights groups -- usually on opposite sides
from the Giuliani administration -- filed a separate but similar lawsuit
yesterday in a cooperative effort with the city. That suit, along with another
filed simultaneously in San Francisco, is a class action representing the
noncitizen immigrants who will be cut off.

Several of the groups, including the Legal Aid Society and the Center for
Constitutional Rights, have repeatedly sued the Giuliani administration over the
years on unrelated issues, and both sides joked about the strange alliance at a
news conference yesterday. But they said they saw eye to eye on this issue.

"It is inherently unfair to let people into this country and ask of them what
you ask of anyone else, and then when they become disabled, cut them off," Mr.
Giuliani said.

In its complaint, the city says the purpose of the provision, according to
Congress, was to encourage self-sufficiency among immigrants, and discourage
foreigners from entering the country in search of cash benefits. But applying
that reasoning to legal immigrants already here "makes no sense," the complaint
says, because elderly and disabled people cannot be made self-sufficient by
having their benefits withheld.

The city will be "directly and gravely injured" by the welfare law, because it
will be forced to care for those removed from the rolls, the lawsuit says,
adding: "Providing benefits to those aliens who do apply for local public
assistance will significantly drain the city's treasury."

The city has estimated that cost would be about $420 million a year.

Several of those at the news conference praised the Mayor for making a strong
case for immigration and immigrants' rights nationwide.

"This Mayor has taken the national leadership role on this issue," said the
Legal Aid Society's executive director, Daniel L. Greenberg, a frequent
adversary of the administration. "We thank you."

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani at a news conference yesterday, after
announcing New York's suit to bar a cutoff of aid to legal immigrants.
(Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Criminal Immigrants Have Right to Hearing

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words



To the Editor:

Senator Spencer Abraham's March 24 letter suggesting that criminal immigrants
abuse the system by obtaining discretionary waivers of deportation is absurd.

In the past, lawful permanent residents who were deportable because of criminal
convictions had a right to appear before an immigration judge to seek
discretionary relief. That is the right Senator Abraham is so proud of
abolishing. Such relief was granted only to those with the strongest cases.

Those who were able to win discretionary relief from deportation had to convince
immigration judges that their rehabilitation was real and permanent. Most had
come to the United States as small children and spent nearly their entire lives
here. And, typically, they have American families, with children and sometimes
spouses who are American citizens.

There is no reason for the mean-spirited policy of deporting criminal immigrants
without even considering the equities, including the hardships deportation will
cause for an immigrant's American family. Congress should restore discretionary
waivers of deportation for criminal immigrants.

JAMES M. BOGIN
Albany, March 25, 1997

The writer is managing attorney, Prisoners' Legal Services of New York.

LOAD-DATE: March 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 28, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Links Pro-Iranian Group To Saudi Attack at U.S. Barracks

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1342 words

DATELINE: OTTAWA, March 27


Canadian officials asserted today that last year's bombing of an American
barracks in Saudi Arabia was carried out by a militant Shiite Muslim group with
links to Hezbollah, the pro-Iranian organization based in Lebanon.

The Canadian assertion is contained in a document summarizing evidence in a
deportation case against a Saudi suspected in being involved in the bombing. The
document raised new questions about whether the attack in June, which left 19
Americans dead, was linked to Iran or Syria; both have longstanding ties to
Hezbollah.

The document, assembled by Canada's intelligence and immigration services, gives
the most detailed account to date of the attack, identifying by name the person
they described as the "mastermind" behind the truck bomb, a 5,000-pound device.
A detonator found at the scene, they said, was similiar to that used by the
Lebanese Hezbollah in previous bombings.

In Washington, American officials declined to comment on the Canadian evidence
and its validity, or whether they endorsed the Canadians' conclusions about the
bombers' identity.

The Canadian case appears to endorse the Saudi view that the bombers got crucial
help from outsiders.  American investigators have at times expressed frustration
over their inability to interview Saudi witnesses or suspects in the case.

The Canadian document was disclosed today after a closed-door hearing on the
immigration status of Hani Abd Rahim al-Sayegh, a Saudi arrested last week in
Canada. Immigration officials were presenting evidence to a Federal judge that
Mr. Sayegh was a threat to Canadian society and should not be allowed to remain
in the country.

The Canadian officials' report said Mr. Sayegh played an important role in the
attack, driving one of two cars that accompanied the truck packed with
explosives and left just outside the apartment that housed American servicemen.

According to the Canadian officials, Mr. Sayegh belongs to a group called Saudi
Hezbollah, which received assistance from Lebanese Hezbollah and trained some of
its members in Syria.

Canadian officials said their assertions were based on material provided by the
Canadian Security Intelligence Service and other information provided "in
confidence by Governments or institutions of foreign states."

Citing national security, the Canadians do not refer directly to information
provided by foreign intelligence services. Nor does the document make clear
whether the information was obtained from witnesses, informants or intercepted
telephone conversations, all which are believed to have been used since Mr.
Sayegh entered Canada last August asking for refugee status.

Mr. Sayegh has denied that he was involved in the bombing and has said he was in
Syria at the time. The Government of Iran, through its embassy here, denied any
connection to the bombing or to Mr. Sayegh. In a written statement, the Embassy
insisted that Iran did not have "any involvement in any sort or fashion, with
the bombing incident in Saudi Arabia."

The Canadian officials identifed Saudi Hezbollah as a "radical Shiite movement"
whose leader is currently under arrest in Saudi Arabia. According to the
document, the Saudi group has ties to Lebanon's Hezbollah, or Party of God.

The Canadian document asserted that some Saudi members of the group have been
trained at camps in Bekaa, in Lebanon.

The Canadian document did not identify what nations provide support for the
Lebanese organization. Other experts in international terrorism have noted,
however, that the Lebanese Hezbollah has long received weapons, money and
guidance from Iran.

Larry Johnson, a former official in the State Department's counterterrorism
office, said a group like Saudi Hezbollah could not have detonated a huge truck
bomb without help.

"These guys would not be able to train for or carry out an operation like this
without the training facilitities in Lebanon which are provided by the
governments of Syria and Iran," Mr. Johnson said.

The Canadian documents identified two others who they said were conspirators in
the bombing plot: Ahmed Ibrahim Ahmad al-Mughassil, whom it describes as the
"mastermind," and Jaafar Chueikhat, who it said had died in a Syrian prison cell
after being arrested by Syrian agents.

According to American officials, the United States has tried, without much
success, to persuade Syria to provide more information about Mr. Chueikhat and
his role in the bombing. But the Syrians have angrily insisted that they were
not involved in the attack at all.

Mr. Sayegh was arrested by Canadian Mounties on March 18 at the Queen Mary
convenience store in an Ottawa suburb and has been held at a detention center
here since. The only charges against him in Canada are immigration violations.

But Canadian officials assert that he is a terrorist, belongs to a terrorist
organization and poses a threat to national security, all of which would bar his
entry into Canada as an immigrant or a refuge.

A full hearing has been set for April 28 at Federal Court. If the ruling goes
against Mr. Sayegh, he is likely to be deported. Since he arrived in Canada
after a brief stopover in Boston, officials said that if he is deported, he is
likely to be sent to the United States.

In presenting their case to a federal judge today, Canadian officials disclosed
new details about the bombing.

On the night of June 25, 1996, they said, Mr. Sayegh was behind the wheel of a
car parked in a lot in front of the Al Khobar Towers, an apartment complex in
Dhahran which was home to American troops. When a second car followed by a
5,000-gallon tanker truck approached the parking lot, according to the Canadian
document, Mr. Sayegh flashed the headlights of his car as a signal for the
truck, loaded with 5,000 pounds of explosives, to enter.

The truck was backed up to the fence line in front of the building and left
there. The driver of the truck and another man jumped out and got into the white
getaway car, which sped off, allegedly followed by Mr. Sayegh in the signal car.

Four to six minutes later, the truck bomb exploded, ripping off the front of the
eight-story building and creating a crater 85 feet wide and 35 feet deep.
Nineteen American were killed and 384 people, including Americans, Saudis and
others, were injured.

In interviews this week from the detention center, Mr. Sayegh has said he was
not even in Saudi Arabia on the day of the bombing. He said he came to Canada
because he feared that as a member of the Shiite minority and an avowed opponent
of the Saudi regime, he was likley to be pursued by the Saudi Government in
connection with the bombing.

His lawyer has refused to say whether he can prove his whereabouts on the day of
the bombing.

Mr. Sayegh spent four years in Iran, from 1987 to 1991, for religious studies,
according to a member of an Islamic rights group who had talked to him but
refused to be identified. He said Mr. Sayegh speaks fluent Persian, the language
of Iran.

Canadian officials said that when Mr. Sayegh arrived in Canada, he carried an
International Driving Permit issued by Syria on August 3, 1994. On it, he gave
Damascus as his permanent address.

The Canadian document also said Hezbollah has established itself in Canada.
Taking direction from the Hezbollah leadership in Lebanon, the Canadian group
has built a system here to assist and support terrorists seeking safe haven in
North America, the document contends.

In 1994, the Federal Court supported terrorist allegations brought by
immigration officials against Mohammed Hussein al-Husseini, who ultimately
admitted he belonged to Hezbollah and acknowledged the existence of the
organization in Canada.

Officials conclude that Mr. Sayegh entered Canada to avoid arrest by Saudi
authorities. He is believed to be in a position to support or take part in
terrorist acts in Canada or the United States in reprisal for the Saudi
Government's plan to execute six people believed to have been involved in the
Dhahran bombing.


LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 28, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Federal Judge Rejects U.S. Effort To Deport Former I.R.A. Bomber

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1109 words


A Federal immigration judge in Manhattan yesterday rejected the Government's
effort to deport a former Irish Republican Army bomber who had served 12 years
in prison, saying that his 1975 attack on a police barracks in Northern Ireland
was not a terrorist act.

In refusing to deport the man, Brian Desmond Pearson, 45, now a carpenter in
Pearl River, N.Y., Judge Phillip T. Williams called the attack a "political
offense." Judge Williams wrote that he made the distinction after considering
the nature of the political situation in Northern Ireland at the time, as well
as the "context, mode, target and purpose of the attack."

"The attack was also not out of proportion to the political object sought nor
was it of an atrocious nature," the judge wrote. "Sufficient warnings were given
to avoid personal injuries, and the target of the attack was a legitimate
military target as a combatant in the conflict."

At least six other former I.R.A. members in the United States, including Noel
Gaynor in Bloomfield, N.J., are fighting similar deportation attempts by the
Federal immigration authorities. But Judge Williams emphasized that his ruling
applied to Mr. Pearson's circumstances and should not be considered a general
opinion of other actions by the I.R.A. or other groups.

While the ruling may have political or intellectual weight, it is not binding on
other immigration judges. The Immigration and Naturalization Service may appeal
the ruling to the Immigration Board of Appeals, which sets precedent for the
nation's immigration judges. And either side may appeal a decision by that board
to the Federal courts. After yesterday's ruling, immigration service lawyers
said they had not yet decided whether they would appeal.

But Mr. Pearson's supporters wasted no time organizing a victory party at the
Irish-American Center in Blauvelt, N.Y. Bagpipes played and people sang "God
Bless America" and Irish nationalist songs. Mr. Pearson, who was convicted of
acting as the getaway driver for the 1975 bombing of a Royal Ulster Constabulary
barracks, walked in to applause and gave the crowd of 150 a thumbs-up sign.

"I'm totally excited," Mr. Pearson told the crowd. "We got what we wanted."

Mr. Pearson, who is married to an American and has a 6-year-old daughter, added:
"The judge understood what kind of background I grew up in: one of total
occupation where we were fighting for basic civil rights. It's been proven I'm
no threat to the United States of America. The British lie was exposed today.
Today was the first step in undermining the lie." But he added, "I won't be
totally relieved until the appeal is withdrawn."

In addition to finding that Mr. Pearson could not be deported as a terrorist,
Judge Williams granted him permission to remain in the United States under two
provisions of Federal immigration law. First, Mr. Pearson married a United
States citizen, and his daughter is a citizen. And second, the judge ruled that
Mr. Pearson has a legitimate claim for asylum because of fears of retaliation by
Loyalist paramilitary groups if he returned to Ireland.

"This court needs to look no further than to events of the past two weeks to
determine that violence committed by both parties to the conflict have continued
with unfortunate results," the judge wrote, citing a March 14 shooting by a
Loyalist paramilitary group. "Under these circumstances, any reasonable person
would fear persecution, especially where, as here, the respondent has been
identified as possessing a political opinion in opposition to that held by the
Loyalist paramilitary groups and the Royal Ulster Constabulary."

An official at the British Embassy, who spoke on condition that he not be
identified, said that the matter was one between Mr. Pearson and the United
States, but that none of the former I.R.A. members would have any need to fear
persecution if they returned to Northern Ireland.

Mr. Pearson's case began after he applied to remain in the United States in
1991, based on his marriage.  A review of his status determined that he had
served 12 years in prison for his role in the 1975 bombing. He was also
convicted in Northern Ireland of being an active member of the I.R.A., although
he denied in immigration court that he was ever sworn into the group.

Arguing that Federal immigration law required that Mr. Pearson be deported as a
terrorist and a criminal, officials of the immigration service denied his
application. Mr. Pearson continued to argue his case and also applied for
asylum.

Mr. Pearson's case drew vocal support from local residents and members of
Congress. According to a supporter, Representative Peter T. King, 62 members of
Congress signed a letter urging President Clinton to grant Mr. Pearson asylum
and drop the deportation matter.

Mr. Pearson also became part of a group of former I.R.A. members who moved to
the United States and have sought to remain here rather than face return to
Ireland, Northern Ireland or Britain.

Mr. Pearson's lawyer, Martin Galvin, said Judge Williams's decision was an
application of a succession of rulings that distinguished legitimate political
struggles from criminal acts. He asserted that the judge's ruling should be
applied to similar cases. "I am saying you have to look at these individuals,
examine the morality of their actions," he said. "Simply apply American law."

Supporters of Mr. Pearson said they hoped that the immigration service would let
the ruling stand.

"We are hoping that the Administration will see fit not to spend any more of the
taxpayers' money," said John F. Cawley, chairman of the Brian Pearson Support
Committee. "Brian Pearson is a hard-working member of the community, a family
man. He is not a threat to the national security of this country or any other
country."

In assessing whether Mr. Pearson's action in the bombing constituted a terrorist
act, Judge Williams gave particular emphasis to the fact that the target was a
military barracks used by the Royal Ulster Constabulary and that "government
property, as opposed to the indiscriminate bombing of a civilian populace, was
the target of said attack."

"This court in no way finds that all actions committed by the I.R.A. are
political offenses, or should be considered legitimate political violence,"
Judge Williams wrote. "The preponderance of the evidence suggests that the
I.R.A. has committed various acts of violence which have resulted in the
unfortunate loss of life and injury to numerous unarmed, innocent civilians, and
which by the definitions set forth by Congress, and applied by this court, would
clearly and rightly be considered terrorist."

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Desmond Pearson, a former I.R.A. bomber, celebrated
yesterday with his daughter, Siobhan, and his wife, Doris, at a party in
Blauvelt, N.Y., after a Federal judge blocked an effort to deport him. (Joyce
Dopkeen/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Immigration Officer in Hong Kong Investigated for Corruption

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 305 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 5


The top United States immigration officer in Hong Kong has been suspended and
placed under investigation less than a year after his predecessor was caught
smuggling forged passports into the colony, a United States official said today.

The immigration officer, James DeBates, acting chief of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service here, was put on administrative leave with pay pending an
inquiry by the agency, an American Consulate spokeswoman said.

The Washington Post reported today that the Hong Kong police had arrested Mr.
DeBates's wife, Heddy, on visa-fraud charges linked to the smuggling of Chinese
migrants into the United States.

Mr. DeBates, who has been with the immigration service for 21 years, was
questioned by Hong Kong anti-corruption officials last month but was released
because of his diplomatic status, The Post reported.

Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption said that it was handling
the case alongside the United States Justice Department, and that investigators
were focusing on allegations of corruption and abuse of authority by Mr. and
Mrs. DeBates. The investigation is being conducted with the full knowledge and
cooperation of the American Consulate, a statement read.

The Hong Kong police said they had no information on Mr. DeBates or his wife, an
American citizen of Chinese origin.

Mr. DeBates's predecessor, Jerry Wolf Stuchiner, is serving a
three-and-a-half-year sentence in a Hong Kong prison for smuggling forged
Honduran passports into the colony.

When he was arrested at the Hong Kong airport in July, the authorities here said
he was part of an international network that sold Honduran passports to citizens
of China, Taiwan and Macau, enabling them to travel to and settle in the United
States. The fake documents sold for as much as $50,000.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 15, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Young Art Helps Give Immigrants A New Face

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 599 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 14


Congress has not treated legal immigrants kindly in the last year, slashing
their public benefits and toughening deportation rules.

But on Tuesday, two dozen of the nation's youngest immigrants -- most them
living in New York City -- will celebrate their lives and dreams in their newly
adopted country with a 10-day exhibit of their art in the rotunda of the Cannon
House Office Building here.

The exhibit, organized by the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, aims to give
immigrants a new image that is vastly different from the images of scofflaws and
welfare collectors that some legislators have promoted. The children come from
India, Vietnam and the countries of the former Soviet Union; many of them are
Jewish.

That new image is embodied by Marina Raynes, 13, who moved from Russia to
Brooklyn five years ago with her family. Marina's poster shows a brightly
colored dove, an olive branch in its beak, flying over the Manhattan skyline
with two skyscrapers drawn in the shape of menorahs.

"In Russia, there was a lot of anti-Semitism," said Marina, who looked like any
American teen-ager as she walked through the Cannon building's rotunda today in
spiffy black sneakers and flashed a smile through braces. "But here, people
aren't afraid to show that they are Jewish, and that feels great."

Leah Koss, 7, fled the war-torn former Soviet republic of Georgia four years ago
with her family, and now lives in the Bronx. In Leah's pen and watercolor
poster, the Empire State Building is bending down to shake hands with her
mother, father and 3-year-old brother, Ronnie. "I don't remember much about
Georgia," said Leah, a brown-haired wisp of a girl. "Here, kids are happy."

More than 150,000 immigrant children come to the United States legally every
year, roughly 15 to 20 percent of the annual total of legal immigrants,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The art exhibit, along with a rally today to support restoration of benefits to
legal immigrants and a Senate hearing on Tuesday to laud the entrepreneurial
spirit of immigrants, is part of a broad counterattack by immigrant-rights
supporters against the immigration and welfare bills that Congress passed last
year.

"In this anti-immigrant mood, the significance of this is to demonstrate the
spirit of the newest Americans," said Martin A. Wenick, executive vice president
of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society.

The artwork was selected from the society's poster contests for young emigres in
1995 and 1996. The exhibit, which was recently on display at the Lower East Side
Tenement Museum Gallery in Manhattan, will run through April 25.

Many of the pieces use bright, uplifting images of children, families and the
Statue of Liberty.

Kseniya Tuchinskaya, 8, moved from the former Soviet republic of Moldova to San
Francisco in August 1993. In her poster, children of several races are standing,
smiling, under an umbrella that is the United States flag. "I was thinking about
all the children of the world under one umbrella," Kseniya said.  "America
represents that umbrella. It's a very good, safe place where you can do what you
want to do."

Boris Rapoport, 14, left another former Soviet republic, Kazakstan, with his
family in 1994, and now lives in Rochester. A young man is sitting under a tree
in Boris's poster. Blooming in the tree's foliage are a Statue of Liberty, a
computer, a school building, a car and a Star of David. "Here there's freedom,"
Boris explained. "You can get a good education, you can practice Judaism, you
can make friends and there's peace."

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Washington exhibit of art by young immigrants is part of a
larger effort to rally support for legal immigrants. Leah Koss, 7, and her
mother, Valerie, traveled from the Bronx to see Leah's poster. (Erik
Freeland/Matrix, for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 19, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Procedures Are Criticized

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 18


A set of sweeping safeguards issued late last year to prevent some immigrants
with criminal records from becoming citizens have been largely ignored by the
agency that was supposed to carry them out, auditors hired by the Government
said today.

Of the 23 Immigration and Naturalization Service offices the auditors visited
recently, only 8 were complying to any extent with the new procedures, the
accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick found in its interim review.

"We cannot provide assurance that I.N.S. is not continuing to incorrectly
naturalize aliens with disqualifying conditions," the review concluded.

Both the F.B.I. background checks required under the safeguards and the
auditors' review were started last November, after Republicans said complained
that the Clinton Administration had rushed to naturalize thousands of immigrants
in time to vote in the election and had granted citizenship to unqualified
foreigners.

In some of the offices surveyed, which account for about 85 percent of the
citizenship applications, auditors discovered that three different versions of
the new policies had been issued to immigration offices nationwide. Some offices
had no record of training clerks on the new procedures. And many clerks
apparently ignored new checklists and improperly filled out fingerprint forms
and sent the forms to the wrong address.

As confusion swirled in the field offices, auditors found that senior agency
officials in Washington failed to follow up on policies deemed important enough
to draw Attorney General Janet Reno's attention over the last few months.

The auditors' grim report so angered Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, that she called the directors of the agency's 33
field offices to Washington earlier this week for two days of stormy meetings.

Mrs. Meissner also ordered remedial training for 200 immigration clerks and
adjudicators at a Federal law-enforcement academy in Glynco, Ga. The workers
will teach others back in their home offices.

The Commissioner said she would soon send Congress a plan to reorganize the
agency with the aim of strengthening its field operations and improving
communications between its headquarters and the field.

The review is "extremely troubling," Mrs. Meissner said in a statement. "We must
be able to assure the American public that the I.N.S. is doing everything
possible to improve the integrity of the nation's naturalization process."

The Peat Marwick auditors have found that of 10,800 immigrants who had been
charged felonies, the Administration awarded citizenship last year to at least
168 whose convictions should have disqualified them.  The auditors are now
reviewing the records of an additional 180,000 immigrants who became citizens
last year before completion of checks for criminal backgrounds.

Lawmakers, who had been assured in recent months by immigration and Justice
Department officials that the citizenship problems were now under control,
reacted today with alarm and dismay to the Peat Marwick review.

"This confirms our worst fears," said Representative Harold Rogers, the Kentucky
Republican who heads the subcommittee that finances the immigration agency.

"From this review, it's clear that I.N.S. is not following its new procedures
and there is even confusion within I.N.S. as to what the procedures are," Mr.
Rogers said.

The main aim of the new policies the Justice Department issued last November is
to insure that immigrants are not granted citizenship until the F.B.I. conducts
criminal background checks.

Previously, the bureau had 60 days to check an applicant's fingerprints, a
deadline that was extended to 120 days last June. If the F.B.I. had not returned
a file in that time, the immigration service assumed that the applicant had been
cleared to become a citizen.

As the number of applicants surged to over one million in fiscal 1996 from
543,000 two years earlier, the F.B.I. fell behind in its fingerprint checks. But
the immigration service kept swearing in citizens, unaware that dozens of
unqualified people were among them.

The new procedures are supposed to prevent such errors, and Peat Marwick
concluded that the guidelines themselves were sound.

But auditors, during visits to the immigration offices in February and March,
found that the clerks and records employees had only a vague understanding of
the new rules or failed to follow them completely.

The review concluded that this failure stemmed in part from poor follow-up. "If
a sense of urgency regarding" the new policies "was communicated from I.N.S.
headquarters, it became diminished as it worked its way down the chain of
command," the review said.

Even when clerks filled out the forms correctly, they often mistakenly sent them
to an F.B.I. office in Washington instead of a processing center in Clarksburg,
W.Va.

The review also calls into question the supervision of businesses certified by
the agency to take applicants' fingerprints and fill out their forms but did not
review the quality of the fingerprints themselves.

Of the 23 offices visited, auditors said only one, in Boston, fully complied
with the new rules. Seven others were "marginally compliant." These included a
large service center in Lincoln, Neb.; district offices in Dallas and Omaha, and
three special naturalization offices in California and one in Garden City, L.I.
The remaining 15 offices were not complying with the new rules, the auditors
found.

Some district directors reacted angrily to the Peat Marwick review, contending
that the auditors exaggerated the problems in their report.

"We're not talking about gross negligence here," said one district director who
spoke on the condition of anonymity. "These are procedural steps. This isn't
fatal to the process."

The field directors and their bosses will soon get a second chance. The review
announced today was an interim report. The firm intends to conduct a formal
audit of offices' compliance beginning on May 12.


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 19, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Central Americans Feel Sting Of New U.S. Immigration Law

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1781 words

DATELINE: INTIPUCA, El Salvador


At the height of the civil war here, as the United States was spending billions
of dollars to prop up El Salvador's military, hundreds of people from this small
town fled the violence that engulfed their country and made their way to
Washington. They took jobs at hotels and construction sites or as household help
for members of the United States Congress.

Now, as a result of a new American immigration law that went into effect April
1, many of them, like hundreds of thousands of other Central Americans who
sought refuge in the United States in the 1980's, are being told they must
return to the land of their birth. For poor countries still struggling to
recover from civil wars, the prospect of suddenly having to accommodate those
returnees -- and having to do without the money they send home -- has caused
consternation.

"This is the worst danger we have faced since the war ended" five years ago,
said Domitila Velazquez de Blanco, 53. Three of her children are among those who
ended up in Washington, including a daughter she says is a cook and housekeeper
for a United States Senator.

"Everyone here counts on the money their relatives send back from the United
States, and if they deport all of them, as they say they are going to do, we
will be left with nothing," she said.

Many of those who fled the conflict here have now lived in the United States for
up to 15 years, and have children born there. They include applicants for
political asylum, those seeking permanent residency by other means and some who
still live clandestinely after entering the country illegally or overstaying
their visas.

Because the United States armed and financed the army whose brutality sent them
into exile, few Salvadorans were able to obtain the refugee status granted to
Cubans, Vietnamese, Kuwaitis and other nationalities at various times. The new
law regards many of them simply as targets for deportation.

Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua also found themselves pulled into the
East-West conflict that was played out on battlefields in Central America, and
are greatly affected by the new measure too. But because of the severity of the
fighting here and the resulting economic devastation it inflicted, El Salvador
has the largest contingent in the United States, an estimated one million
people, at least one-third of whom are subject to the new law.

As a result of the refugee outflow, money sent home by Salvadorans living abroad
is now the largest single source of income for this country of 5.8 million
people, accounting for 12 percent of the gross national product. According to
official figures published by the Central Reserve Bank, remittances last year
totaled more than $1.25 billion, a sum larger than El Salvador's combined
exports.

"This is a problem that profoundly worries us, and I have talked with President
Clinton about it on several occasions," President Armando Calderon Sol said in a
recent interview at the Presidential Palace in San Salvador when asked about the
new law. "Mr. Clinton is a man with a high degree of sensitivity to human
problems, and he has asked us to remain calm and understanding and assured us
that there will not be mass deportations."

Mr. Clinton is to meet with the presidents of five Central American countries on
May 8 and 9 in Costa Rica, and the topic is sure to be broached again there.
Already, Central American foreign ministers have flown to Washington to meet
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright and plead with her to take steps to
lessen the measure's impact.

On April 10, the Immigration and Naturalization Service issued a statement
promising a "hold on deportations through September 30" for a category of
immigrant that applies to many Salvadorans. The announcement was being made, the
agency said, "because confusion about this assurance appears to have arisen in
Central America and among the U.S. immigrant community."

But in what was interpreted here as an indication that any reprieve would be
temporary, the statement also cautioned that "this does not mean the law, or any
of its provisions, has been or will be suspended for any specific nation or
group of people." The immigration service's "enforcement priorities remain the
same under the new law," the statement also said.

Even before the statement was issued, officials throughout Central America had
been skeptical of assurances that no systematic deportations would take place.
As Eduardo Stein, Guatemala's Foreign Minister, said in an interview, "All the
indications that we have encountered point to the contrary, and that is what
alarms us."

Guatemala's civil war came to an end last Dec. 29, after 36 years of fighting
between an American-armed military and leftist guerrillas that killed more than
100,000 people and forced a million more into exile or out of their homes. A
peace accord brokered by the United Nations requires the Guatemalan Government
to carry out sweeping agrarian, social and educational reforms, a process that
is expected to cost more than $2.5 billion.

"We have our hands full," Mr. Stein said. "We have serious problems of displaced
people, refugees in camps in Mexico, and 3,000 guerrillas who are disarming. If
they suddenly send back 65,000 people from the United States, for us that
creates very grave concerns."

Unlike the estimated 2.7 million Mexicans who are in the United States
illegally, many, if not most, Central Americans say they are refugees who fled
the civil wars that racked the region for a generation. During a conflict that
lasted from 1979 until 1992, more than 70,000 people were killed in El Salvador,
most of them by the American-backed army and the death squads it in turn
supported, and hundreds of thousands more were displaced.

"The war forced many people here to flee to the United States," explained
Amilcar Morales, 60, who says his household of eight people could not survive
without the $200 that his brother and children in the United States send back
each month. "They were unjustly accused of being guerrillas when they were not,
and they had to leave to save their lives."

Once they reached American soil, though, Salvadorans found the Reagan
Administration unwilling to grant them political asylum. To continue providing
the Salvadoran Government and military with aid that, at its peak, exceeded $1
billion a year, the State Department had to certify to Congress that human
rights were being respected in El Salvador, and the claims of refugees seeking
political asylum contradicted that assurance.

Facing deportation as "economic refugees," Salvadoran and Guatemalan asylum
seekers in 1985 filed a class action suit, winning a settlement with the
immigration service five years later. That agreement allowed them to continue
living and working in the United States while their claims were being heard, and
together with legislation passed in 1991 raised hopes among them that, even if
they were denied asylum, they would eventually qualify for permanent residency.

But the new immigration law makes it far more difficult for Central American
refugees to win such rights. Much of the time they have accrued in the United
States does not count toward eligibility for permanent residency, there is an
annual worldwide numerical cap of 4,000 on the number of "suspensions of
deportation" that can be granted, and hardship to immigrants is no longer a
consideration.

"When these people should have won asylum, they were denied it for all the wrong
reasons," said Lisa Reiner, a lawyer who works at Central American Legal
Assistance, an immigrant rights group in Brooklyn. "Now the floor moves again,
and they are being told they can't even apply for suspension of deportation,
which once more makes them victims of poorly applied immigration laws."

Many here contend that the United States is merely reaping what it sowed, and
that it has a moral debt to repay to this country. In an editorial, the
conservative newspaper Diario de Hoy argued that "it should not be forgotten
that the problem of illegal immigrants derives from the interference of the
United States in our region."

In towns like this, the principal concern is with the material, rather than
moral, consequences of the law. Thanks largely to money emigrants have sent back
from the United States, this highlands town of 16,000 people has several
two-story houses, private bus service to the provincial capital and other
amenities not often found in the Salvadoran countryside.

"Every improvement you see here is a result of money that has come from the
United States," said Lazaro Guardado, 66, who has four children living in the
Washington area. "People who used to own just a little horse now have four-wheel
drives, and people who lived in little wooden shacks now have houses made of
brick, and all because of the remittances."

Studies done by Salvadoran sociologists indicate that the poorest families are
most dependent on money sent from the United States. Sitting in front of the
wooden hut that is her home, Petronila Ramirez said that without the $130 sent
each month by two grandchildren working in Virginia, her family would not be
able to afford school fees for her 14-year-old granddaughter, Digna, and would
have to cut back significantly on purchases of food.

But the difficulties of those who have come to depend on money from the United
States would not be the only problem the country would confront, said Robert
Rivera Campos, an economist at the Salvadoran Foundation for Social and Economic
Development, a private research institute in San Salvador. El Salvador would
also have to accommodate a 6 percent increase in population almost overnight,
with all the social strains that implies.

The country already suffers a significant shortage of housing, schools,
hospitals and jobs, all of which would be worsened by large-scale deportations
from the United States.

"We simply do not have the capacity to absorb everyone all at once," President
Calderon Sol said.

The Salvadoran currency, whose exchange rate has held steady since the end of
the war, would also collapse, diplomats and economists here predicted. The
United States has pressured Mr. Calderon Sol to open up the Salvadoran economy,
but foreign investment and trade have not grown as rapidly as hoped.

"The colon would sink like a stone, the balance-of-payments deficit would
balloon and inflation would rise quickly, undoing much of the effort this
country has made to put its house in order," one Latin American diplomat here
warned. "And the ultimate result, obviously, would simply be to encourage more
people to immigrate to the United States for lack of opportunity here."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new United States law forcing many immigrants to return home
is expected to hurt villages like Intipuca, El Salvador. Petronila Ramirez said
her family would suffer without the wages of relatives working in Virginia.
(Enamorado Rutilio for The New York Times)(pg. 6)

Map/Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: Targets for Deportation" shows the number of illegal
immigrants in the United States Central American countries. (Source: U.S.
Immigration and Naturalization Service)(pg. 6)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CONFUSED BY LAW, NURSING HOMES BAR LEGAL IMMIGRANTS

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1693 words


As the health care industry braces for Federal cuts that will leave thousands of
immigrants without Medicaid this fall, nursing homes have begun to mistakenly
deny admission to some elderly and sickly legal immigrants who will not lose
their health coverage.

Bewildered by the new Federal welfare law and fearful that immigrants will
default on their bills, some health care centers in New York and around the
country are now requiring prospective patients to produce citizenship papers
instead of residency papers upon admission, hospital and nursing home
administrators say.

And while New York State health officials acknowledge that a small group of
immigrants will lose Medicaid as Federal restrictions go into effect later this
year, they warn that the new practice unfairly denies care to the vast majority
who will keep that coverage.

But as health care administrators peer into the wrinkled faces of their elderly
applicants and struggle to interpret the law, some have found it easier to
refuse all legal immigrants -- like those with green cards but not citizenship
-- than to figure out who will keep and who will lose benefits.

"It's heartbreaking, but we're all too terrified to admit anybody who is not a
citizen," said Sheryl Geminder, the director of admissions at the Sephardic Home
for the Aged in Brooklyn, which now rejects all legal immigrants who need
long-term care. "A green card was the ticket in six months ago, but now our
attorneys are warning us not to take any chances."

The confusion is the unintended consequence of the changes in the Federal
welfare laws, which allow states to continue Medicaid, which covers nursing home
costs, to some legal immigrants while denying coverage to others.

New York, along with at least 35 other states, plans to continue benefits to
poor legal immigrants who entered the country before last Aug. 22, when
President Clinton signed the welfare bill. But those who have arrived since then
will generally find themselves ineligible for Medicaid coverage for five years.

No one knows how many eligible immigrants have been turned away from care
centers and retirement homes, but health care officials in New York said that
dozens had been rejected in the last month.

And administrators at public hospitals in Miami and Los Angeles, who are also
reporting their first cases, fear the problem will balloon if the law is not
clarified, stranding immigrants in hospital beds needed by acute-care patients.

Already, legal immigrants too sickly to bathe and too senile to recognize their
children are beginning to languish in hospitals. And families who can no longer
care for ailing relatives now find themselves overwhelmed with few options.

"If this continues, what will we do with these people?" asked Carol Burger, an
administrator at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens as she searched for a place
for an 83-year-old legal immigrant from Romania, one of about 20 patients
rejected by nursing homes for lack of citizenship. "Where are they going to go?"

Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Republican of Florida and the chief sponsor
of the new welfare law, called the situation "worrisome" and said he had never
intended to deny care to eligible immigrants.

By law, nursing homes may refuse patients who cannot pay their bills. But Mr.
Shaw said he doubted that elderly care centers that receive Federal funds, in
the form of Medicaid payments, had the right to turn away legal immigrants who
were eligible for care. "There's no question that it's discrimination," he said.

Mr. Shaw said that care centers needed better guidance from state and Federal
health officials and that his Congressional committee would provide it if others
did not. "I can understand their confusion," he said of the nursing homes. "But
obviously, some elderly people have fallen through the cracks."

Paralyzed by a stroke that left empty spaces in her memory, Raisa Kinker, a
74-year-old legal immigrant from Ukraine, spent one month at Huntington Hospital
on Long Island, rejected by one nursing home after another, until a Brooklyn
rehabilitation center took her in.

Withered by the stomach cancer that has left him marooned at Elmhurst Hospital
Center for two months, Luis Bejarano, 74 and a legal immigrant from Colombia,
has been told not to even hope for a nursing home bed, although he, too, will
keep his Medicaid coverage.

And more than 30 legal immigrants from China, many of them too crippled to walk
or brush their thinning hair, recently found themselves stranded with families
who could not care for them when a Staten Island retirement home rejected their
pleas for placement this month.

"These families come all the way from Chinatown and beg us to take their elderly
relatives, and I've got to look in their eyes and tell them no," said Cindy
Miner, the case manager at the Staten Island home, the Anna Erika Home for
Adults and Assisted Living Programs, which caters to elderly Asian patients.

"We've taken these people into our country, and now when they need help, we have
to turn them away," she said. "It's a horrible feeling. We'd love to take
everyone, but it's just too much of a risk."

The confusion over eligibility stems, in part, from the Federal Government's
distinction between "qualified" immigrants, who will keep benefits, and
"nonqualified" immigrants, who will lose them.

In New York State, virtually all legal immigrants, those who arrived before Aug.
22, are considered qualified. Under Federal rules, those noncitizens who will
keep Medicaid include legal permanent residents, refugees and seekers of asylum.
Even the estimated 87,000 legal immigrants expected to lose Supplemental
Security Income benefits -- the Federal cash payments accepted by retirement
homes -- will receive state funds to cover their stay, state health officials
say.

The S.S.I. recipients' Medicaid status will be re-evaluated, but state officials
say the coverage will continue unless the recipients are no longer poor or
disabled.

Although the State Legislature has not yet voted these provisions into law,
politicians in both parties say Republican Gov. George E. Pataki and Democratic
lawmakers are in agreement on the issue.

"They should not be turning away this group on the basis that they will be
losing Medicaid eligibility, because that will not happen," said Frances
Tarlton, a spokeswoman for the State Department of Health.

But a group of about 16,000 immigrants, considered "present under color of law,"
who have been granted temporary residency and receive Government services, are
expected to lose both Medicaid insurance and cash benefits beginning in August.

And legal immigrants who arrived on or after Aug. 22 of last year -- a group
that will increase over time -- will be ineligible for Medicaid.

State officials said they had tried to make the distinctions clear. But health
care administrators for the elderly are still frantically seeking guidance,
calling local politicians, thumbing through trade newsletters and tapping into
Government sites on the World Wide Web.

"I'm getting calls from nursing homes and they're saying, 'I have a legal
immigrant here. What do I do?' " said Scott Sandford, director of regulatory
affairs for the New York State Health Facilities Association, a trade group that
represents 290 nursing homes.

"We have been telling our members, 'You have to be really careful about someone
who is not a citizen,' " Mr. Sandford said. "We assume that Governor Pataki's
proposal is going to pass, but we can guarantee nothing. It's a real risk."

The perceived risk varies from institution to institution. The Cabrini Center
for Nursing and Rehabilitation, a 240-bed complex in Manhattan still accepts
legal immigrants. Menorah Home and Hospital for the Aged and Infirm, a 253-bed
center in Brooklyn, on the other hand, has turned several away.

"Some homes are being extra careful," said James E. Piazzola, the director of
social work at the Los Angeles County-University of Southern California Medical
Center, which saw its first legal immigrants rejected from nursing homes six
weeks ago. "Rumors are flying everywhere."

Plans to ease the new welfare law's impact have been bandied about for weeks.
President Clinton wants to restore most benefits to elderly immigrants.
Republicans in Congress want to give some states money to help them manage the
transition. And Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City has filed suit to
keep the Federal cuts from going into effect.

But while the proposals fly, hospital administrators say some legal immigrants
are already suffering. And they fear that the situation will only get worse as
the summer deadline for cuts in benefits approaches.

"As we get closer to August, more and more of the facilities are going to refuse
them," said Jill Lenney, the administrator of social work at Jackson Memorial
Hospital in Miami. "They're going to be occupying acute-care beds, and patients
who need those beds will be spending more time in the emergency room."

Without clear guidance, nursing homes and retirement homes currently refusing
legal immigrants have no reason to change their new policies, advocates for
nursing home patients say.

"There are obviously people who need care, who are not going to be able to get
it," said Cynthia Rudder, the director of the Nursing Home Community Coalition
of New York State, which advocates on behalf of nursing home residents. "They're
in limbo until the state makes some determination."

In a tiny apartment in Brooklyn, a 75-year-old legal immigrant from Ukraine
lives in that limbo. Rejected from the Sephardic Home for lack of citizenship,
Villy Vaysman lies in bed, unable to move, his body mostly deadened by
Parkinson's disease.

He is too heavy for his 76-year-old wife, Irina, to carry to the bathtub. So
every morning, she washes him bit by bit, rolling him from one side to another,
praying all the while that some nursing home will take him in.

"I don't have the strength to take care of a paralyzed man," she said as she
wept last week. "I don't want to think that they won't take him. I don't know
what we'll do."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Raisa Kinker, 74, who was paralyzed by a stroke, was visited by
her granddaughter Renata during a month's stay at Huntington Hospital. (Vic
DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. 38)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 20, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Trying To Smooth Mexico Path For Clinton

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 665 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, April 19


As far as Mexico is concerned, President Clinton's knee injury could not have
come at a better time.

Mr. Clinton had been scheduled to travel to Mexico early this month for his
first visit as President. But after a fall that ripped his tendon and restricted
his movements, the trip was postponed to May 5-7.

After the President first booked the trip early this year, something like a
volcanic eruption of mistrust and hostility toward the United States took place
in Mexico, bringing relations to their lowest point in years.

The United States Congress's annual evaluation of Mexico's progress in the drug
war, a tougher American immigration law that went into effect on April 1 and the
handling in Washington of several simmering trade disputes all grated on
Mexicans' sensitivities. The outcry spread from the Mexican Congress to
opposition parties, labor unions, private business and people on the street.

It suddenly looked as if President Clinton's trip might bring anti-American
street protests, frosty meetings with Mexican officials and perhaps even
increased security risks. Senior officials from both Governments were quietly
relieved when the visit was postponed.

Now top Clinton Administration officials have begun a campaign to try to assuage
suspicions and rebuild ties in advance of President Clinton's arrival. Gen.
Barry McCaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, and
Doris Meissner, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, came
this week and Thomas F. McLarty, the President's special envoy for the Americas,
arrives on Sunday.

In a strategy worked out with the Mexican Government, the American officials are
making a series of public appearances to convey a message to ordinary Mexicans
that President Clinton is a friend of their country.

Mr. McLarty said in an interview that he would try to convince "not only the
Government but the Mexican people of our genuine respect."

"It's a joint offensive to try to set up the President's visit in the right
light," said an American official familiar with the discussions between the two
Governments.

The United States officials have gone out of their way to say what Mexicans want
to hear. General McCaffrey emphasized that the United States must take some of
the blame in the expansion of the international drug trade because of the $50
billion spent there each year to buy illegal drugs.

Despite mounting friction at the border, Commissioner Meissner praised
immigration cooperation between the two countries as "the most mature,
constructive and fruitful that it has ever been" and stressed that the new law
will bring no mass deportations from the United States.

The debate in the United States Congress in February and March over whether to
certify Mexico as an ally in the drug war was particularly bruising to
sentiments here. It fueled the arguments of Mexican nationalists that the United
States has no business passing judgment on the anti-narcotics efforts of other
countries and only uses the drug war to intrude in Mexico's domestic affairs.

"The extremely heated and sometimes offensive comments in the Congress and from
some D.E.A. officials really just soured things," Foreign Minister Angel Gurria
said in an interview, referring to the United States Drug Enforcement
Administration. "There was a mood here at all levels that there had been
aggravation and offense."

To the surprise of American and Mexican officials, a ruckus was raised when the
immigration law went into effect, with provisions that make it easier for the
United States to deport immigrants who enter illegally and more difficult for
illegal immigrants in the United States to receive government benefits.

Both sides acknowledged that President Clinton's visit will not be the one they
imagined.

"Originally we would have chosen to just breeze through," Mr. Gurria said. "Now
we will have to use the opportunity to make some very strong points about these
issues."


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Governor Orders a Clarification on Medicaid

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 494 words


Hoping to stop nursing homes from mistakenly turning away legal immigrants
needing care, Gov. George E. Pataki directed his staff yesterday to send letters
to all the state's nursing homes to make it clear that most immigrants will not
lose Medicaid coverage.

Confused by the new Federal welfare law that will terminate the benefits of
thousands of noncitizens, some nursing homes had begun to improperly deny
admission to legal immigrants eligible for care, fearing they would default on
their bills.

"The Governor is concerned that seniors and those families be assured access to
nursing home care," Dr. Barbara A. DeBuono, the Commissioner of Health, said in
an interview yesterday.

"The number of people potentially losing their benefits is very small," she
said. "We don't want them to use this as an excuse to deny people deserving home
care."

Officials said Mr. Pataki's order was issued in response to an article on Sunday
in The New York Times, which reported that some health care centers had begun to
turn away dozens of sickly and elderly legal immigrants, leaving them to
languish in hospitals and with families who could no longer care for them.

In fact, state health officials say that virtually all of the state's legal
immigrants, those who arrived before Aug. 22 of last year, will keep Medicaid,
which covers nursing home costs. Only a small group of people, including those
granted temporary residency and those who arrived after Aug. 22, are expected to
lose Medicaid coverage.

The letters, which were being drafted yesterday, will be sent out to health care
centers this week, Dr. DeBuono said. "We will have the guidelines that nursing
homes are specifically to use," she said.

Several congressmen had expressed concern about the issue yesterday afternoon,
including Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, the Republican from New York, and
Representative E. Clay Shaw, a Republican from Florida and the chief sponsor of
the Federal welfare law.

"We need a clarification with respect to that," Mr. D'Amato said of the changes
in Medicaid eligibility, "and I would hope we would be able to get one so that
question can be answered and we will not have a situation where people are being
turned away when they need not be turned away." He said he planned to seek
further clarification of the law.

Mr. Shaw said he intended to hold Congressional hearings to weigh the impact of
welfare reform on elderly immigrants. "We're going to have to watch this whole
thing to see who gets hurt by it."

Advocates for the elderly applauded the efforts to clarify the issue to insure
that legal immigrants receive the care they need.

"Nursing homes now will have no reason to refuse people who in fact will have a
source of payment," said Cynthia Rudder, director of the Nursing Home Community
Coalition of New York States, which lobbies on behalf of nursing home patients.
"I'm really pleased they're going to clear up the entire confusion."


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pressing To Deport Man Tied to I.R.A.

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 260 words


Immigration officials said yesterday that they would appeal a judge's verdict
allowing a former member of the Irish Republican Army who now lives in Rockland
County to remain in the United States despite his role in a 1975 attack on a
police barracks in Northern Ireland.

In a decision on March 27, an immigration judge, Phillip T. Williams, found that
the 1975 act was not a terrorist offense according to United States law. Using a
detailed analysis set out in immigration laws, Judge Williams ruled that the
attack should not subject the man, Brian Desmond Pearson, to deportation. He
found that the attack was a political offense on a military target and not of
"an atrocious nature."

Mr. Pearson, who served 12 years in prison for the attack, moved to the United
States in 1988 and married a United States citizen. Now a carpenter living in
Rockland County, Mr. Pearson also has a 6-year-old daughter who is a United
States citizen. His efforts to remain in the country have been supported by a
number of political and religious leaders.

In filing their appeal, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
challenged Judge Williams's analysis. The service disputed the characterization
of the attack as a political offense and the finding that Mr. Pearson had not
been a terrorist. The I.N.S. also denied that Mr. Pearson would face persecution
if he were returned to Northern Ireland.

"The administration's last-minute decision to appeal is legally, politically and
morally wrong," Martin Galvin, Mr. Pearson's lawyer, said.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 1, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Jordan to Let Terror Suspect Held in U.S. Into Kingdom

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 799 words


Jordan announced yesterday that Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook, the Hamas political
leader who has been jailed in Manhattan for 22 months on shadowy accusations of
terrorism and immigration violations, would be allowed to enter the kingdom.

The decision could bring a rapid end to a case that has proved embarrassing to
the United States and Israel as they maneuvered to keep Mr. Marzook in prison,
but backed away from charging him with complicity in a series of violent
attacks.

American and Israeli officials implied yesterday that Mr. Abu Marzook would go
to Jordan. But he has been embroiled in the intricacies of United States
immigration law and it is unclear whether he will be freed immediately. Under
the law, the Immigration and Naturalization Service had been expected to start a
process known as exclusion, which would allow it to detain Mr. Abu Marzook
indefinitely while building a case against him.

Federal prosecutors have said previously that although Mr. Abu Marzook had asked
to leave the country, he would not be allowed to leave without either contesting
or confessing to the activities that led to his detention in the first place.

But diplomatic intervention could override those proceedings. "We had
consultations with a number of parties including Jordan about where hewould go
and it emerged he would go there," said an American official, speaking on
condition of anonymity.

United States officials have repeatedly expressed annoyance that Israel dropped
its extradition request for Mr. Abu Marzook in April, undermining the grounds
for his detention.

"Once Israel made the decision to suspend the extradition, we were in a
difficult position," the official said.

Mr. Abu Marzook's lawyer, Michael Kennedy, did not return phone calls yesterday.
The immigration agency refused to comment on whether it would now block Mr. Abu
Marzook from leaving the country or any other details of the case.

Although United States officials had long hinted that Jordan was the likely
country to take Mr. Abu Marzook, the kingdom had kept silent on whether it would
accept him.

Mr. Abu Marzook, 46, a Palestinian businessman, was expelled from Jordan and
later detained at Kennedy International Airport in July 1995 because his name
appeared on an American watch list for those engaged in terrorism. He has said
repeatedly that he was only involved in raising money for Hamas charitable
activities and had nothing to do with the violent militants who have carried out
attacks against Israel.

He stunned the United States and Israel in January by announcing that he would
not fight the extradition request, preferring a trial in Israel to endless
detention in Manhattan. Mr. Abu Marzook has been a legal resident of the United
States since 1982.

Much of the immigration case against him hinges on whether the judge recognizes
his status as a legal resident with a green card. With it, Mr. Abu Marzook can
contest his detention much as a citizen could. If his residency is deemed
suspect, he can disappear into jail for years without legal recourse.

"There is a basic international human rights law precept that anyone has the
right to leave any country, including one's own," said Arthur C. Helton, who
teaches immigration law at New York University. "But unadmitted aliens in
exclusion proceedings do not have constitutional protection."

But if Mr. Abu Marzook is treated as a resident, the Government would have to
show cause why he should not be allowed to leave for Jordan.

"They would have to show that he presents a national security risk or a danger
to the community upon release," Mr. Helton said.

In making the announcement that Mr. Abu Marzook was welcome in Jordan,
Information Minister Samir Mutawae said that King Hussein had made the decision
on humanitarian grounds. The minister said Mr. Abu Marzook would be allowed to
enter Jordan without conditions, but would be expected to obey the laws there.

Jordanian officials would not say what prompted the announcement. The Jordanian
Government had previously kept its distance from Hamas and tried to muzzle its
statements against the Israel-Palestinian peace accord.

But the Hamas-Jordanian relationship improved in March after officials in the
Palestinian Authority criticized King Hussein for making a condolence visit to
Israel after a Jordanian soldier shot dead seven Israeli schoolgirls.

Israel, which said it dropped its extradition case because a trial could disrupt
peace negotiations, welcomed the idea of Mr. Abu Marzook's going to Jordan.
"From our point of view, it is not a bad solution," said an Israeli official in
Washington, speaking on condition of anonymity. "They know us, they cooperate
with us and King Hussein knows how to deal with these people."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 2, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Federal Official Goes to Jail

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 121 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


A former high-ranking immigration official, who was convicted in November of
accepting bribes in exchange for falsifying documents, was placed into custody
Wednesday, four weeks ahead of schedule, after the authorities said he failed to
abide by the terms of his house arrest. John F. Lonergan, 50, of Belmar, was
supposed to leave home only to go to work or visit his lawyer and was being
monitored through an electronic bracelet. But he violated those restrictions
twice this week, Jeffrey D. Smith, an assistant United States attorney, said.
Mr. Lonergan, the former deputy assistant director of the Federal Immigration
and Naturalization Service office in Newark, was scheduled to begin a 42-month
sentence on May 27.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 2, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Backlog in Naturalization Process Is Worsening, Agency Says

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 776 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 1


As record numbers of immigrants seek citizenship to avoid losing benefits, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service is falling behind schedule with a growing
backlog that will worsen until safeguards are in place to prevent criminals from
becoming citizens, Justice Department officials say.

It now takes 10 months or longer in New York City, Los Angeles and Miami to
become a citizen once an application is filed, up from five or six months a year
ago.

But Justice Department officials say the backlog will grow as the immigration
service slows its pace to install a set of corrective steps that were scheduled
to take effect five months ago, but were largely ignored by most of the
service's field offices.

The officials declined to say how large the backlog might grow, but independent
experts said it could increase by several months.

Consequently, many more immigrants than initially estimated will lose their
welfare benefits because they will not be naturalized before the August deadline
set under the new welfare law.

"The backlog is climbing, the waiting time is increasing and the application
numbers continue to mushroom," Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of
Immigration and Naturalization, told a subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee on Wednesday. "We're working to correct the difficulties."

Mrs. Meissner said in an interview that "there is no sign of a slowdown" in the
number of citizenship applications.

The number is expected to reach 1.8 million this year, compared with 1.2 million
last year, but the Commissioner said that the backlog might not rise as quickly
as some officials feared.

The immigration service is caught between trying to fix a program that last year
granted citizenship to 180,000 immigrants without proper background checks, and
swearing in tens of thousands of law-abiding immigrants with minimal delay.

The task is like trying to fix a moving freight train.

Justice Department and immigration officials say they are slowing down the
naturalization process -- and temporarily falling behind their goal to process
all applicants within six months -- to insure that the integrity of the program
is sound for the long term.

"We're focused on getting the procedure working the way it ought to work," Mrs.
Meissner said.

But lawmakers complained at the hearing of the House Judiciary Committee's
Subcommittee on Immigration that the new safeguards were slowing the I.N.S.'s
citizenship activities to a crawl.

"This is not an excuse to slow down to barely a trickle the processing of
naturalization applications," said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Florida
Republican who fled Cuba in 1960 and became a United States citizen in 1972.

The immigration service warned of a pending backlog last November when it issued
new rules to prevent naturalizing criminals. But I.N.S. officials insisted that
it would be only temporary.

The most important change was for the Federal Bureau of Investigation to check
an applicant's criminal record before the immigration service awarded
citizenship.

"Checks and balances don't come free," said Stephen R. Colgate, Assistant
Attorney General for administration.

But an independent review last month found that only one of 23 immigration field
offices that the auditors visited had fully complied with the new rules. So the
immigration service is now losing precious time in months of new training and
reviews.

Mrs. Meissner ordered crash training for 200 adjudicators and clerks in field
offices, and directed supervisors to review the paperwork of successful
applicants.

A senior Justice Department troubleshooter, Robert Bratt, and a former
Comptroller General, Charles A. Bowsher, were dispatched to help straighten out
the program.

Even so, the challenges outside the immigration service are daunting. When the
F.B.I. moved its fingerprinting review operation to Clarksburg, W. Va., from
Washington last fall, more than 1,000 employees opted not to make the move.

That left the F.B.I. short-handed. So far, the bureau has received from the
immigration service, one of its largest customers, nearly 1.4 million
fingerprint cards for criminal background checks, a pace that is 35 percent
ahead of last year's total.

It now takes the F.B.I. about 50 days to check a citizenship applicant's
fingerprints, up from 19 days a year ago, said Dennis G. Kurre, a deputy
assistant director at the bureau.

The F.B.I. plans to hire 1,100 new fingerprint examiners and other clerks, but
it will be late next year before they are all trained and on the job.

An automated system is not scheduled to be fully operating until 1999.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Rule Barring Citizenship Irks a Cuban Virtuoso

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 3


Since defecting from Cuba in 1990, the jazz trumpeter Arturo Sandoval has built
a stellar career in the United States, winning three Grammy Awards, soloing at
events like the Academy Awards and rubbing shoulders with President Clinton.

On Thursday Mr. Sandoval performed for Mr. Clinton for the fourth time, at a
Democratic Party fund-raiser in Washington, just weeks after the Immigration and
Naturalization Service denied his application for citizenship.

In doing so, the agency applied a provision of the Immigration and Nationality
Act of 1952 that forbids naturalization to anyone who, within the previous 10
years, "has been a member of or affiliated with the Communist Party or any other
totalitarian party."

Mr. Sandoval, 47, said he joined Cuba's Communist Party three months before he
defected so that he could take his wife and his 20-year-old son with him on tour
in Europe and the family could "escape."

The rejection of Mr. Sandoval's application has brought an uproar from his
colleagues and from the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. His
supporters have sent faxes and letters to the White House vouching for Mr.
Sandoval's anti-Castro credentials and his moral character. Some immigration
experts said the rule had become obsolete in a post-cold-war world.

"Just what are we trying to protect ourselves against by barring this hapless
individual from citizenship?" asked Arthur C. Helton, a law professor at New
York University who directs migration programs for the Open Society Institute, a
research and advocacy organization in New York.

Even a spokesman for the immigration service sounded a little embarrassed when
asked about the case, saying, "We're honored to have Mr. Sandoval as a legal
permanent resident of the United States, and we are considering his appeal."

Mr. Sandoval is appealing to the immigration service on the grounds that his
Communist Party affiliation was not voluntary and was based on fear of
persecution for his family.

His wife, Marianela, has been granted citizenship and the application of his
son, Arturo Jr., is pending. Mr. Sandoval, who lives in Miami Springs with his
family and has taught music for six years at Florida International University,
came to this country in July 1990 after he defected in Greece while on tour with
Dizzy Gillespie, who called the State Department on his behalf.

"It's absurd," Mr. Sandoval said of the agency's decision. "Why let me in then?
Why let me shake hands with Presidents? Why let me teach in universities? It's
all so contradictory."

Mr. Sandoval, who said he had been labeled "pro-Yankee" in his own country for
his embrace of jazz, theorizes that a "Castrista" within the Federal agency or
"a frustrated person" envious of his success is bent on causing him harm.

Indeed, Mr. Sandoval, a specialist in jazz and Latin music described by critics
as "prodigious" and a "virtuoso" has found nothing but opportunity in his
adopted country. Since arriving, his agent said, Mr. Sandoval has recorded seven
albums, performed at inaugural balls and Super Bowls and toured in 50 countries.

At the gala on Thursday night, he shook hands and had his picture taken with the
President but did not have a chance to talk to him. If he had done so, Mr.
Sandoval said, he would have told Mr. Clinton, "I'm loyal to this country and I
feel offended because I'm convinced I don't deserve this treatment."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 6, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Proposes That New York Help Immigrants Become Citizens

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1005 words


In a reflection of the rising political and economic influence of immigrants in
New York City, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani will call this week for the creation of
a city agency to recruit and assist legal immigrants who want to become
citizens.

Mr. Giuliani's aides said yesterday that the Mayor would propose spending $12
million to set up six offices around the city to help immigrants at every stage
of the naturalization process, from filling out forms to preparing for
citizenship tests to negotiating the complicated bureaucracy of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. The money will be included in the budget plan he
will make public on Thursday.

The Mayor said he would discuss the program in a speech on immigration policy to
the American Jewish Committee in Washington on Wednesday. It is the latest in a
series of speeches Mr. Giuliani has given on the topic ever since Congress
passed a welfare bill last year to severely restrict benefits to immigrants
living in the United States.

Mr. Giuliani warned that the cut in Federal money could be expensive to New
York, because the city would be forced to make up for the lost aid.  Mr.
Giuliani said yesterday that New York would be spared some of those costs
because of a deal reached last weekend between President Clinton and Republicans
restoring some of the cuts, and that his citizenship program would save the city
more money by helping as many as 60,000 immigrants in New York City become
citizens by the end of 1998.

Though unusual, the city's plan is not unique. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman
proposed spending $2 million to help some poor immigrants in New Jersey become
citizens, and similar efforts have been started in California and Florida. But
national immigration advocates said Mr. Giuliani's plan appeared to be the most
ambitious effort by a local government to assist immigrants, and was
particularly striking at a time when many Republicans have been associated with
anti-immigration policies.

That Mr. Giuliani decided to provide money for the program, and highlight it at
the start of a week that traditionally has been marked with leaks about budget
proposals, is the latest indication of the extent to which immigrants have
become part of the political and economic culture of New York.

It is also the latest effort by Mr. Giuliani to stake out pro-immigration
policies as a central part of his political identity, distancing himself from
Republican policies and appealing to the rising number of naturalized citizens
who will be eligible to vote this November, when Mr. Giuliani is up for
re-election. In recent months, Mr. Giuliani has lobbied Republicans in
Washington, filed lawsuits against the Federal Government and formed a coalition
of well-known Americans to extol the virtues of immigration.

Frank Sharry, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an
immigration advocacy group in Washington, said: "When he started speaking out on
this, a lot of people were sort of scratching their heads and saying, 'What the
hell is he doing? Is he going to become a Democrat?' I think in many respects
he's emerged as one of the leading champions on immigration."

Mr. Giuliani described his efforts as "a matter of fairness."

"If people are allowed into this country legally," the Mayor said, "and they are
expected to pay taxes at the same level as everyone else, they should be treated
the same way as everybody else. The only way we can absolutely assure that in
the future is to make them citizens."

But there is clearly a budgetary motive in the Mayor's proposal. City officials
say that under the welfare law pushed through Congress by Republicans last year,
at least 150,000 immigrants in New York City would have lost food stamps and
disability payments. That would have forced New York City to spend $76 million
to replace cash benefits for those losing disability money in the fiscal year
starting July 1.

The agreement struck by Mr. Clinton and Republicans to eliminate some of those
cuts, however, means that city officials are now recalculating both the cost of
the Federal welfare revisions and how the new program will work. Mr. Giuliani
said one effect is that his program will seek to help immigrants beyond those in
danger of losing their benefits, and his aides emphasized that they viewed the
office as a permanent addition to the city government.

City officials estimated that 1.2 million of the city's 7.3 million residents
were legal immigrants.

The money for the program, $11.8 million, will be included in Mr. Giuliani's
1997-98 executive budget, which he will present to the City Council on Thursday.

The city would hire 100 people, who would work out of offices in the Bronx,
Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens. City Hall officials said immigrants would be
recruited by mail and at-home visits.

Mr. Giuliani's aides likened the workers to social service caseworkers. They
said that in addition to helping immigrants fill out forms, the workers might
refer them to lawyers or helping them be fingerprinted, among other things.

The new agency would be in the Department of Youth and Community Development.

If the office is successful, it seems certain to create new problems for the
I.N.S., which already has backlogs up to 10 months in its New York City office.
Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project of the National
office of the American Civil Liberties Union, praised the New York plan, but
said it demonstrated the deficiencies of Federal policy.

"It's unfortunate that the I.N.S. has made the process unnecessarily cumbersome
and difficult so cities have to step in and help," he said.

Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the I.N.S., said the agency welcomed
Mr. Giuliani's plan. "The reality of the situation is we are the biggest
supporters of citizenship there is," he said. "We are delighted that individuals
who have not actively pursued citizenship are doing so.

"Granted, it does present a significant challenge for us."


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Urges Speedup in Naturalization of Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7


At a time when Republicans in Congress are regularly questioning the integrity
of the naturalization process, New York's Mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, yet again
struck a very different note from his Republican brethren today.

In a speech to the American Jewish Committee here, Mr. Giuliani hailed the value
of citizenship, called for an infusion of staff at the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to hasten the naturalization of more than a million
waiting immigrants and advocated his new plan to create a $12 million city
agency to assist citizenship seekers.

He pointedly made no mention of faulty fingerprinting procedures or botched
criminal background checks of legal immigrants seeking citizenship. Instead, he
attacked as "un-American" a Republican-sponsored welfare law, passed last year,
that denies food stamps and other benefits to legal immigrants. They pay taxes
just like citizens, he said, and are entitled to help if they are sick or down
on their luck.

Mr. Giuliani, who opposed the cutoff of benefits to legal immigrants from the
start, said the welfare law told immigrants, "We'll keep your money, but we
won't give you benefits."

He also said that the political climate on Federal aid to legal immigrants had
begun to change, in large part because state and local officials had realized
that the Government was shifting a huge financial burden for the care of
disabled and impoverished immigrants to them. Evidence of that shift has become
clear only in the last week, he added.

"I feel that we have at last gotten the attention of Washington and people in
other parts of the country," Mr. Giuliani said.

House and Senate budget negotiators have agreed to restore benefits to disabled
immigrants in the next fiscal year, which begins Oct. 1. Mr. Giuliani said New
York City now believed that most of the elderly and disabled immigrants there
who were expected to lose their Supplemental Security Income benefits in August
and September would retain them under the new agreement.

"That's 40,000 or 50,000 of the most vulnerable people in the city of New York,"
he said.

And yesterday, the Senate overwhelmingly adopted a measure proposed by Senator
Alfonse M. D'Amato, Republican of New York, to delay the cutoff of Supplemental
Security Income benefits to both the elderly and disabled until Sept. 30,
bridging the gap to the next fiscal year. The House has not yet taken up the
proposal. Such a delay would also give immigrants a month or two more to
complete the backlogged citizenship process, Mr. Giuliani said. Immigrants who
become citizens will be able to keep their benefits.

National advocates for immigrants in the audience yesterday said the Mayor's
emotional, wide-ranging speech on immigration, delivered without notes, only
consolidated his position as one of the nation's leading champions of
immigrants. As he has in the past, Mr. Giuliani even had kind words for illegal
immigrants, who he said often work hard and pay taxes just like legal immigrants
and citizens.

His decision to focus on the importance of helping immigrants become citizens,
rather than on the flaws in the immigration service's management of the process,
was typical of his leadership on the issue, the immigrant advocates said.

Several times yesterday, Mr. Giuliani said the immigration service needed more
resources to handle the surge in citizenship applications, which has grown to an
estimated 1.8 million this year from 1.2 million in 1996.

The Mayor this week proposed creating a new city office staffed by 100
caseworkers who would help immigrants through the citizenship process,
especially focusing on those facing the loss of Federal benefits. But since it
now takes up to a year to become a citizen because of a backlog of applicants,
unless the immigration service hires more workers, the length of time it takes
to become a citizen will be even longer.

The Mayor's efforts to help more people apply are likely to actually increase
the backlog.

When an advocate in the audience asked what could be done to ease the
bottleneck, Mr. Giuliani called for a concerted lobbying effort.

"You've got to put pressure on the President and the Justice Department and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to increase the number of people and
resources to bring people through the citizenship process quickly," he said.

Immigration officials said yesterday that they were developing a proposal for
more resources, which would have to be submitted to Congress for approval.
"Obviously, when faced with a 50 percent increase in our workload in citizenship
applications, we'll need to improve our infrastructure," said Eric Andrus, a
spokesman for the immigration service. "We welcome the Mayor's own citizenship
initiative."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 10, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Citing Security, U.S. Jails Iraqis It Used in Plot

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1163 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 9


A group of Iraqis who worked with the Central Intelligence Agency in a failed
attempt to undermine Saddam Hussein and were offered refuge by the United States
Government are now in jail in California, facing expulsion from this country.

The proceedings against them are cloaked in secrecy, but court documents and
interviews show that at least 13 refugees stand accused by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service of being "a danger to the security of the United States."

Government officials and lawyers for the accused said the charges stem from the
Federal Bureau of Investigation's suspicions that some or all of the men may be
Iraqi spies or potential terrorists. The men are seeking political asylum in the
United States, but if accusations are upheld by immigration judges, they could
be deported, possibly to Iraq.

In telephone interviews from jail, four of the men insisted they had been
falsely accused and were victims of family infighting among the resistance
groups, not secret agents for Saddam Hussein. The Iraqis in custody in
California include defectors from the Iraqi military who joined the
C.I.A.-backed resistance groups, the Iraqi National Accord and the Iraqi
National Congress. They fled their country with their families after the secret
operation collapsed in disaster last year.

Ali Yasin Mohammed Karim, who said he was a 35-year-old doctor of radiology who
worked with the Iraqi National Congress, said in a telephone interview from a
Los Angeles County jail in Lancaster, Calif., that his incarceration was "a
mystery to me."

"We came to this land legally, on account of the U.S. Government, and they put
us inside of a jail," he said. "We worked with people more important than the
I.N.S. -- with the C.I.A. I am a doctor of radiology, not a radioactive
substance. I have a death penalty against me from Saddam Hussein. So I think it
is not possible that I am his agent. Where is the law? I came here legally. I
did nothing wrong."

The court records available in the case do not reflect the specific basis for
the charges against the jailed men. Carole Florman, a Justice Department
spokeswoman, said the Federal regulation allowing a political asylum claim to be
denied on national security grounds was "very vague and broadly constructed."

She said immigration officials had not denied the jailed men's requests for
asylum, but referred them to immigration judges for further review. "The I.N.S.
has not determined whether it will argue strongly against the requests for
asylum," she said. "We are very much in the middle of the process." The
immigration service would not comment on the case, nor would the C.I.A.

The Iraqi National Accord and the Iraqi National Congress had major roles in a
$20-million-a-year C.I.A. operation to try to undermine the Iraqi leadership.
The clandestine effort began shortly after the gulf war ended and went on for
five years, without success. The two groups, along with the stateless Kurds of
northern Iraq, were crippled by rivalries and internal squabbles and suspicions
that the resistance was penetrated by Iraqi intelligence.

On Aug. 31, the operation collapsed when the Iraqi military and secret police
stormed into the Kurdish areas of northern Iraq. The Iraqi forces seized control
of towns that had been protected by a United States-led security zone since the
end of the 1991 gulf war and had served as bases for the resistance.

The Iraqis jailed in California were among a group of 600 men, women and
children who fled for their lives after the invasion. Along with two other
groups of about 5,500 Iraqis and Kurds who had worked with the United States-led
coalition forces and with relief organizations in northern Iraq, they sought
help from the Americans.

After gathering at a NATO air base in Incirlik, Turkey, they were flown by
United States military planes to the island of Guam, a United States territory
in the Pacific Ocean, 3,790 miles west of Hawaii. In Guam, they spent five
months at Andersen Air Force Base, where they were told to apply for political
asylum.

As they waited while immigration authorities processed their applications, they
received lessons in American civics and the English language. They also
underwent interviews and security checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

In those F.B.I. interviews, the accused contend, the bitterness left over from
the blown covert operation boiled over into false accusations against them, by
their fellow refugees.

The immigration authorities appear to have accepted the charges recorded by the
F.B.I. and now are trying to deny the men political asylum. Under the law, the
Iraqi defectors and the stateless Kurds could be returned to Turkey -- which
will not take them -- or to Iraq.

"We ask ourselves why the United States did this to us," said Adil Hadi Awadh,
who said he was a military doctor, a first lieutenant in the Iraqi army, who
defected last summer and joined one of the C.I.A.-backed resistance groups, the
Iraqi National Accord, in northern Iraq. He spoke in English during a telephone
interview from the Lancaster jail.

"My opinion is they are slandering us," he said. "The I.N.S. received letters
from our enemies inside the I.N.A. and inside the I.N.C. in Guam. Those bad
people spoke about us bad things which are not real. The motive what pushed them
to speak these things is only the grudge which is provoked only because of the
competition inside the I.N.A. and the I.N.C."

Niels Frenzen, a public-interest lawyer representing the eight accused Iraqis
jailed in Lancaster, said the F.B.I. agents who interviewed the refugees "went
to Guam looking for derogatory information, and they stirred up some existing
tensions." The consequence, he said, was that "men who risked their lives for a
cause they believe in, a cause in which the United States risked their lives" --
are in jail, parted from their wives and children, who have received political
asylum, and facing exile or death.

"The cruel irony here is that these individuals were led step by step by step to
the United States, and if they had known they they were going to be led into a
trap -- detained, forcibly separated from their families, and potentially facing
a forced return to Iraq, perhaps they would have stayed and fought."

Sara Campos, a civil rights lawyer who represents five other Iraqis deemed
security risks, said: "These men are trapped in a cruel dilemma that the U.S.
created. The U.S. brought them here and now wishes to return them to Iraq, where
they face certain death."

Ms. Campos said she has had difficulty seeing and talking with her clients, who
were sent to jail in Bakersfield, Calif., a five-hour drive from her offices in
San Francisco, the city where their court hearings will be held.

"Some of the men are depressed and nearly suicidal," she said. "They have
questioned whether being in a U.S. jail is any better than being subjected to
the tyranny of Saddam Hussein."

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 7, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Law May Endanger Legitimate Refugees

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 828 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6


A Federal advisory panel sharply criticized a new immigration law today, saying
it did not provide adequate protection for refugees seeking asylum in the United
States.

The bipartisan panel said the law could result in genuine refugees' being sent
back to face persecution in their homelands.

In a report to Congress, the panel, the United States Commission on Immigration
Reform, criticized provisions of the 1996 law that authorize the immediate
expulsion of some would-be refugees who arrive in the United States.

These "expedited exclusion" procedures allow the swift removal of people seeking
refuge in the United States, but the process may be so rapid that there is a
serious risk of error by asylum officers, the panel said.

Shirley M. Hufstedler, a former Federal judge who is chairwoman of the panel,
said, "We urge immediate correction of these provisions of the law, which we
believe can harm bona fide asylum-seekers."

Susan Martin, executive director of the panel, said: "The U.S. commitment to
adhere to international norms for protecting refugees has eroded. We need to
restore it."

Ms. Martin said some people fleeing persecution were, at first, unable to
present their claims in a persuasive way because they had difficulties
communicating or did not trust the asylum officers interviewing them.

Sponsors of the 1996 law, passed in September, wanted to crack down on illegal
immigration and on frivolous applications for asylum. But the commission said
today that Congress had gone too far in limiting access to asylum here.

Allen G. Kay, a spokesman for Representative Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas,
the chief author of the 1996 law, said Mr. Smith had no immediate comment on the
report. But Mr. Kay said there had been "rampant, outrageous fraud in the asylum
process." People showed up at airports in this country with no travel documents,
requested asylum and were given appointments for hearings, but never showed up
and were never seen again by the immigration authorities, Mr. Kay said.

Daniel A. Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, which wants to curtail immigration, said the 1996 law was needed to
deter fraudulent applications for asylum. "The law has barely taken effect," he
said. "Why would we want to repeal it? Give it a chance to work."

But Eleanor A. Acer, coordinator of the asylum program at the Lawyers Committee
for Human Rights, said she fully agreed with the panel's criticism of the law.

"The law will send many genuine refugees back to persecution," Ms. Acer said.
"The commission's clear and principled statement of U.S. legal obligations to
refugees is like a breath of fresh air."

To qualify for asylum, an alien must show "a well-founded fear of persecution on
account of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group
or political opinion." A person granted asylum may later become a permanent
resident and a United States citizen.

The commission said the new law would permit the expulsion of asylum-seekers who
had been convicted of relatively minor crimes here or abroad. Rather than
automatically excluding such people, the panel said, the Federal authorities
should weigh the severity of the likely persecution against the nature of the
crime committed.

Mrs. Hufstedler said some applicants for asylum might be rejected under the 1996
law because of convictions stemming from "participation in a minor brawl,
shoplifting or writing a bad check."

The commission also made these recommendations:

*The United States should try to anticipate "mass migration emergencies" and
should set up "regional safe havens" where refugees could stay temporarily. This
would avoid the situation that occurred in the 1980's, when tens of thousands of
people came here from El Salvador and other Central American countries. Many
remain here, even though the turmoil in their home countries has ended.

*The United States should establish "a minimum target or goal for post-cold-war
refugee admissions." Such admissions may fall to "unacceptably low levels" now
that there is less demand for resettlement of people from Southeast Asia and the
former Soviet Union.

*The United States should establish new priorities for admission of refugees,
based on the nature of their claims rather than on the geographical regions from
which they come.

The commission said the Government should give the highest priority to "refugees
who are in urgent need of rescue" or who are immediate relatives of people
already living legally in the United States. All bona fide refugees in these
categories should be admitted, the panel said.

In addition, the panel urged Congress to make "urgently needed corrections" in
the 1996 welfare law, which limited the public benefits available to legal
immigrants. Refugees may obtain such benefits during their first five years
here, but may not receive assistance after that unless they become American
citizens.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 10, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Uses Conference To Rally Immigrant Cause

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 834 words


Nearly a year after Congress voted to slash benefits to legal immigrants, a
group of Republican and Democratic local elected officials from around the
nation, organized by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, rallied yesterday in New York
City to call on Congress to restore the aid.

They came together at a two-day conference on immigration sponsored by the city
government. Backed by participants from states including California, Florida and
Texas, Mr. Giuliani used the conference yesterday as a national platform to
lobby against the cutoff of benefits to elderly and disabled legal immigrants at
a time when a Congressional agreement to restore many benefits may be
unraveling.

The conference, at the Sheraton New York Hotel, is also one more sign that the
Mayor, in the midst of a re-election campaign, is ever more aggressively taking
on a role as the nation's leading champion of immigrants. Last month, he
announced a $12 million city initiative to help legal immigrants become citizens
if they face the loss of benefits. And he often travels the country to speak on
the virtues of immigration.

His fellow officials lavishly praised him yesterday for seizing the leadership
on the immigration issue, which may enable the Republican Mayor to broaden his
appeal to Democrats as well as to immigrants and their children, who together
make up a majority of New York City's population.

Gloria Molina, a liberal Democrat who is the daughter of a Mexican immigrant
laborer and the first Hispanic person elected to the Los Angeles County Board of
Supervisors, said she had been "longing for leadership in this area," and
counted herself grateful to the New York Mayor for taking the initiative.

Likewise, Randy Johnson, a Republican corporate lawyer who is chairman of the
Hennepin County Board of Commissioners, in the Minneapolis area, thanked Mr.
Giuliani. As a conservative, he said, he believes it is the Federal Government's
responsibility to police the nation's borders, to set immigration policy -- and
to pay for the consequences.

With a tableau of local officials standing behind him, including leaders of the
National Association of Counties and the United States Conference of Mayors, Mr.
Giuliani described the New York conference as a way to harness the influence of
local government officials from different parts of the country at a strategic
moment in the Congressional budget negotiations.

As part of a budget compromise, Congressional Republicans agreed with the White
House earlier this year to restore benefits to disabled legal immigrants who
were in the country before the welfare reform law passed last Aug. 22. But last
week, House Republicans backed away from that plan, and proposed giving benefits
to certain elderly immigrants rather than to the disabled.

In his opening remarks at the conference, Mr. Giuliani condemned the latest
round of negotiating on benefits for immigrants.

"I can't think of anything more unseemly or unconscionable than trading off the
elderly against the disabled," he said.

His face projected on larger-than-life screens on either side of the hotel
ballroom, the Mayor appealed to the self-interest of local officials, who are
worried that old and infirm immigrants who lose their Federal benefits will
become a burden on state and local budgets. He also declaimed on the immigrant
experience as the ultimate expression of the American dream.

Officials from Los Angeles County said their borders contain 100,000 of the
500,000 elderly and disabled immigrants who will lose benefits under the 1996
welfare reform law unless Congress alters it. And they said almost one-fifth of
those facing a cutoff of their Supplemental Security Income in Los Angeles
County are over age 85, while almost three-quarters are women.

In New York City, about 70,000 legal immigrants are expected to lose benefits in
August and September unless Congress changes the law, Mr. Giuliani said.

"There is no free lunch," said Zev Yaroslavsky, chairman of the Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors, warning that the cost of supporting needy
immigrants would fall on state and local governments.

Today, Mayors Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles, Edward G. Rendell of
Philadelphia and Alex Penelas of Metropolitan Dade County in South Florida,
among others, are to join Mr. Giuliani at Ellis Island to back a "statement of
principles" that lays out their own immigration agenda.

It calls on Congress to undo laws that severely limit Federal benefits to legal
immigrants. "Since legal immigrants work and pay taxes like American citizens,
they should be entitled to temporary assistance when they fall into personal
difficulty," the statement says.

It criticizes the Federal cutoff of benefits to legal immigrants as "a massive
cost shift from the Federal Government to many cities and states," hitting
California, Texas, Florida and New York the hardest.

And it says more resources should be devoted to help process a backlog of
citizenship applications.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Bars Expulsion of Immigrants in 3 States

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 24


A Federal judge in Miami today barred the Immigration and Naturalization Service
from deporting tens of thousands of Nicaraguans and other immigrants who have
challenged the agency's interpretation of a provision of the 1996 immigration
law until their case can be heard.

Though the preliminary injunction barring the deportations issued by Judge James
Lawrence King of the United States District Court for southern Florida applies
only in Florida, Georgia and Alabama, similar cases are pending elsewhere, Ira
Kurzban said. Mr. Kurzban is a member of a group of Miami lawyers who brought
the suit against Attorney General Janet Reno, the Justice Department, the
immigration service and the Board of Immigration Appeals. Judge King set a trial
date for next January.

The lawsuit affects as many as 50,000 immigrants in the three states, about
three-quarters of them Nicaraguans who have been living in the United States
under legal, but temporary, immigration status for more than a decade. Their
suit challenges the immigration service's decision to apply a provision of the
new law to those who arrived in the United States before 1996.

Mr. Kurzban estimated that between 300,000 to 500,000 people nationwide --
mostly Salvadorans, Guatemalans and Nicaraguans, many of whose immigration cases
have dragged on for years -- could be affected by a permanent decision to apply
the new law retroactively.

Many have been living in limbo for more than 10 years under various temporary
protected statuses while the Government wrestled with a permanent solution for
the refugees of the wars in Central America in which the United States played a
role. The interpretation of the law challenged in the suit would cause many of
the immigrants to lose their work permits and leave them unable to qualify for
permanent residency.

More than 100,000 Nicaraguans live in south Florida, and the new immigration law
has stirred anger and panic, and has sparked street protests in the last three
months. After Judge King's ruling on Tuesday seven Nicaraguans ended a 17-day
hunger strike at La Plaza de la Cubanidad in Miami's Little Havana neighborhood,
saying that Nicaraguans nationwide would soon unite and hold a demonstration in
Washington.

In opposing the lawsuit, the Government argued that the 1996 law bars Federal
courts from hearing such class-action suits, but Judge King disagreed, ruling
that the constitutional claims raised could not be heard anywhere else.

"Seldom, if ever, has such a dramatic, heart-rending and powerfully persuasive
case of irreparable harm to literally tens of thousands of human beings been
presented to this Federal court," Judge King wrote in his strongly worded
opinion.

The Justice Department and the immigration service said the ruling was still
being studied.

"We don't know yet if we're going to appeal," said Carole Florman, a spokeswoman
for the Department of Justice in Washington.

Before the 1996 law, any immigrant who had lived in the United States for more
than seven years could apply for suspension of deportation, the last step toward
legal permanent residency. To prevail, the immigrant had to prove that he was of
good moral character and would suffer unusual hardship if deported.

Under the new law, the immigrant must prove not only good moral character and
continuous physical presence in the United States for 10 years, but must also
prove that the deportation would result in "extreme and unusual hardship," not
to himself but to a United States citizen or permanent legal resident. Having a
child who is a United States citizen is not necessarily considered a hardship.
If an immigrant is served with a document called a "notice to appear" by the
immigration service, at that point the immigrant's officialpresence in the
United States stops immediately and any further time in the country does not
count toward the 10-year requirement.

After the new law was passed in September 1996, the immigration service began
appealing the cases of immigrants who had won their suspension of deportation
cases starting in October 1996. In February, the Board of Immigration Appeals in
Virginia, an arm of the Justice Department, ruled that the law could be applied
retroactively. After that, scheduled hearings were canceled, and those who had
won suspension of deportation had their cases overturned.

So far, the law has been applied retroactively only in the three Southern
states, but the Government has argued that it should be interpreted the same way
elsewhere. Those cases have yet to be ruled upon by the Board of Immigration
Appeals, Mr. Kurzban said.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Nicaraguan demonstrator, Maxuell Rivera, is carried off to a
hospital in Miami as a hunger strike by Nicaraguan protesters ended on Tuesday.
The demonstrators were protesting against a new immigration law. (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

The Nervous Season: Beijing and a U.S. Prisoner

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, June 24


With less than a week before Hong Kong's legal system starts answering to a
Chinese master, the authorities quietly released a senior United States
immigration official from custody today.

The official, Jerry Stuchiner, had been arrested on corruption charges nearly a
year ago, and he had argued in court that his life might be endangered if he
remained in a Hong Kong prison after the colony reverts to Chinese rule at
midnight June 30.

That may have been overstating things. American and Hong Kong officials said the
real reason Mr. Stuchiner won early release was that he agreed to cooperate with
prosecutors in a pending case against another United States immigration official
in Hong Kong, who together with his wife is under investigation for helping
smuggle Chinese immigrants to the United States.

But the curious timing of his release highlights a touchy legal issue, one that
remains unresolved as the transfer to Chinese control nears: Beijing's right to
question people already in custody in Hong Kong.

In Mr. Stuchiner's case, it is unlikely that anyone in Washington liked the
notion of a corrupt American official, who for years had access to a certain
level of intelligence files, suddenly being vulnerable to interrogation by
Beijing officials.

In other, more ordinary cases, if mainland officials were to request access to a
prisoner, it seems unlikely that the Hong Kong government would refuse.

"There is nothing in the law that would block access," said Nihal Jayawickrama,
a law professor at the University of Hong Kong. "On any particular case, it
would be up to the authorities in Hong Kong whether to grant access or not."

At the same time, while some outsiders may fear the worst about China's future
role in Hong Kong's legal system, law enforcement authorities here expect little
meddling in legal cases by mainland officials. They say it is hard to imagine
Beijing moving a prisoner out of Hong Kong.

Mr. Stuchiner, 45, who often boasted of his friendships with local tycoons when
he was chief agent for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Hong Kong
from 1989 to 1994, was apprehended at Hong Kong's airport in July 1996, when he
arrived from Honduras, to which he was transferred in 1994.

He was carrying five blank Honduran passports with the intention, he later said,
of selling them for $30,000 to $40,000 each. The passports could be used by
people from China or Hong Kong to enter the United States. He pleaded guilty to
forgery and was sentenced to three and a half years in prison.

In April, he was aided by a bizarre legal technicality, when a Hong Kong court
ruled that he had been wrongly charged with forgery, since the Honduran
passports were actually left blank. He was re-sentenced, on a lesser charge, to
three months.

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 26, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Appeals Court Backs Lesbian Asylum Bid

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 244 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 25


The Federal appeals court here has unanimously ruled that a Russian lesbian
living in the United States can seek political asylum in this country because of
efforts by the Russian Government to forcibly "cure" her of homosexuality.

The decision, announced on Tuesday by a three-member panel of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, overturned a 1995 ruling by the Board of
Immigration Appeals denying asylum to the Russian woman, Alla Pitcherskaia, who
has lived in San Francisco since 1992.

The board had ruled that efforts by the Russian authorities to change Ms.
Pitcherskaia's sexual orientation, including forced psychiatric hospitalization
and electrical shock treatments, did not amount to persecution because they had
not been done to inflict punishment.

"The fact that a persecutor believes the harm he is inflicting is 'good for' his
victim does not make it any less painful," wrote Judge Betty B. Fletcher. "Human
rights laws cannot be sidestepped by simply couching actions that torture
mentally or physically in benevolent terms."

The ruling is relatively narrow, said Ignatius Bau, a lawyer for Ms.
Pitcherskaia, who is 35. It did not settle the issue of whether she should be
granted asylum, but instead sent back the case to the immigration board. The
board is expected to rule on her case again later this year.

An official of the Immigration and Naturalization Service had no immediate
comment on the ruling.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 2, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Acts to Deport Man for War Crimes

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 228 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, July 1


The Justice Department began deportation proceedings today against an
80-year-old man who served in a Lithuanian police unit that helped Germans kill
Jews during World War II.

The United States Supreme Court in May turned away an appeal by the man, Jonas
Stelmokas, contesting a judge's decision to revoke his citizenship.

Mr. Stelmokas had lost his citizenship in 1995, when a Federal judge ruled that
he had lied about his wartime activities to gain entry into the United States.

When Mr. Stelmokas applied for immigration to the United States in 1949, he said
he was discharged from the Lithuanian Army in 1940 and then worked as a teacher.

He repeated those assertions when he became a naturalized citizen in 1955.

But officials with the Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations say
Mr. Stelmokas served in an auxiliary police unit from 1941 until he entered the
German Air Force in 1944.

And the judge determined that he had served as a guard commander at a Lithuanian
ghetto where Jews "were subject to extreme deprivation, brutality and arbitrary
shootings."

Today, officials with the Office of Special Investigations filed deportation
papers against the retired architect from Lansdowne in immigration court in
Philadelphia. Federal officials have said Mr. Stelmokas could challenge his
deportation before an immigration judge.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

In a Quest for New Voters, Politicians Fight the I.N.S.

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 471 words


A Federal immigration agency said it wanted to stay so far away from politics
that it ended voter registration at naturalization ceremonies in the New York
district, but it reversed course yesterday after politicians called.

Mark Thorn, a spokesman for the New York district of the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service, had declared unequivocally yesterday
that the agency would no longer allow voter registration at naturalization
ceremonies it sponsored, beginning with a swearing in of more than 5,000 new
citizens today in Hempstead, on Long Island.

"We are not a political agency and we do not want to politicize it by having a
voter registration drive," he said. "We want to maintain the dignity of the
ceremony."

Informed yesterday of the no-registration rule, two career vote-seekers, Senator
Alfonse M. D'Amato, a Republican from Long Island who is giving the keynote
speech at the ceremony today at Hofstra University, and United States
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Democrat who is running against him, said
they thought the new policy was a bad idea.

Mr. Schumer, who serves on the House immigration subcommittee, called it
"un-American." And he vowed, "I will call Doris Meissner right now." Mrs.
Meissner is commissioner of the immigration service.

Senator D'Amato said that new citizens should be encouraged to vote, and added,
"I'll make a call and tell them to reconsider."

In what seemed the blink of an eye, Senator D'Amato was back on the phone to
announce what he said were the results of his call to Edward J. McElroy,
district director of the immigration service's New York office.

"They're going to permit the registration of voters in the stadium," the Senator
said. "I spoke to district director McElroy. He said they would permit it."

Interviewed again, Mr. Thorn, the spokesman for the immigration service's New
York office, said the agency had, after all, decided to allow volunteers to help
new citizens register to vote after they take the oath.

"There were calls from a number of elected officials and a lot of different
community groups," he said. "After listening to their interests, we decided it
was logistically possible to accommodate these groups after the event."

Asked if he thought it ironic that the district's efforts to take the politics
out of naturalization ceremonies was undone by politics, Mr. Thorn chuckled and
declined to comment.

Eric Andrus, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said the
policy nationwide is to encourage the voter registration of new citizens once
they have taken the oath.

Since November 1995, volunteers organized by the New York Immigration Coalition,
an umbrella organization of nonprofit groups that serve immigrants, have helped
40,000 new citizens become voters at the ceremonies.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Alan C. Nelson, 63, Who Led Immigration Overhauls for U.S. and California

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 617 words


Alan C. Nelson, who presided over sweeping changes in national immigration
policy in the 1980's as Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, then
helped write California's tough new immigration law, died on Jan. 29 at his home
in Sacramento. He was 63.

His family said the cause was a heart attack.

When Mr. Nelson went to Washington in September 1981, initially as a deputy
commissioner of the immigration, he knew little about Haitian boat people, Cuban
refugees or any of the other thorny problems facing the agency. Indeed, he was a
corporate lawyer who had spent the previous six years representing the Pacific
Telephone & Telegraph Company in San Francisco.

But to President Ronald Reagan and his inner circle, Mr. Nelson, a native of
Oakland who had majored in business administration at the University of
California at Berkeley and later obtained his law degree there, had special
credentials.

For one thing he had served in the California cabinet, as director of the
Department of Rehabilitation, when Mr. Regan was Governor. For another, he was a
member of the so-called Alameda County Mafia, a group of Washington officials
who had served in law enforcement in Alameda County, mainly as prosecutors in
the district attorney's office.

It did not hurt Mr. Nelson's standing that his stint as a prosecutor had
overlapped with that of Edwin Meese 3d, the long-time Reagan insider who was the
White House counselor in charge of recruitment and who later became Mr. Nelson's
boss as Attorney General.

In the Immigration Service, Mr. Nelson proved a quick study.

Within two months of his arrival, after President Reagan's first choice for
commissioner, a Florida Cadillac dealer, backed out, Mr. Nelson was promoted to
the top spot.

During the next eight years, he wrestled with the numerous problems of illegal
immigration and lobbied hard for what became the Immigration Reform and Control
Act of 1986. That law granted legal status to about three million long-term
undocumented aliens, while imposing tough measures to curb the flow of illegal
aliens into the country, including a requirement that employers check the
citizenship status of their workers.

Among other things, Mr. Nelson set up more than 100 new field offices to process
requests for amnesty, beefed up the Border Patrol, worked to restore Ellis
Island as a cultural center and carried out a program to prevent undocumented
aliens from receiving Federal benefits to which they were not entitled.

Although Mr. Nelson had hoped to hold on to his position through the next
administration, shortly after George Bush became President in 1989 a Justice
Department audit found so many deficiencies in the agency's management that Mr.
Nelson was forced to resign.

He resumed private law practice in California, but within a few years he was
deeply involved in the immigration issue once again. At a time when many
Californians were becoming increasingly concerned about the proliferation of
illegal aliens from from Asia and Latin America, Mr. Nelson and Harold W. Ezell,
a former western director of the immigration service, came up with a proposed
solution: a law that among other things would bar undocumented aliens from
receiving an array of public benefits, from education to health care.

The proposal, which became a citizen's ballot issue known as Proposition 187,
touched off a wave of outraged opposition, but passed handily in November 1994.
Since then, however, many of the law's provisions have been tied up in the
courts.

Mr. Nelson is survived by his wife, JoAnn; three daughters, Kristy Leffers of
Oakland, Kathy Taylor of Rocklin, Calif., and Karin of San Francisco, and one
granddaughter.

NAME: Alan C. Nelson

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan C. Nelson (The New York Times, 1987)


TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 2, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

OLYMPICS;
Defections By Cubans Confirmed

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section B;  Page 11;  Column 1;  Sports Desk

LENGTH: 354 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 1


The Immigration and Naturalization Service confirmed today that two members of
Cuba's Olympic boxing team had defected to the United States from Mexico on
Sunday and said that they had been sent to a holding center about 100 miles east
of San Diego until their case is processed.

Rudy Murillo, a special assistant for the immigration service in San Diego,
confirmed that the two had made the crossing at San Ysidro, Calif., from
Tijuana, Mexico, and had been moved to the service's holding center in El
Centro, but he would not comment further.

It was not certain how long the two highly rated boxers -- Joel Casamayor, 24, a
bantamweight and former gold medalist, and Ramon Garbey, 25, a former amateur
world champion in the super middleweight division -- might be detained at the
immigration center, but their attorney flew there today from Los Angeles to
accelerate a hearing that might result in their release.

An immigration official said both boxers were interviewed by an asylum-screening
officer and could be released as early as Tuesday.

The two boxers fled the Cuban training camp, which is near Guadalajara in
Mexico, and had been hidden until crossing the border by car on Sunday, their
lawyer, Frank E. Ronzio, said on Sunday. It had been unclear why the boxers
would flee just a few weeks before the Olympics when they were almost assured of
winning medals, and might have been able to defect more easily from Atlanta.
Ronzio said today that the two boxers were suffering reprisals for refusing to
join the Communist Party and were concerned that they would be left off the
Olympic team.

Immigration experts said that it is now standard for defectors to be held until
their cases are heard by an immigration judge, which can take weeks. But some
defectors are able to get early release from special asylum-screening officers.

In recent years, a number of Cuban athletes, including several baseball players
who have turned professional, have defected.

Both boxers are unmarried but left children behind in Cuba. Casamayor has an
8-year-old child and Garbey a 5-year-old child, Ronzio said.

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

July 14-20;
Pulling in the Welcome Mat

BYLINE: By LENA WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 2;   Column 2;   Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 127 words


Many legal immigrants re-entering this country are finding themselves detained
and facing deportation without appeal. That's the unintended consequence of a
strict, new counterterrorism law, the Anti-Terrorism and Effective Death Penalty
Act, which speeds prosecution of terrorists and limits appeals for prisoners on
death row.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service can also use the law, which resulted
from the Oklahoma City bombing, to detain any resident alien convicted of a
crime in the United States, including most felonies. Congress is drafting
legislation that would allow immigrants to appeal deportation.

"There will undoubtedly be constitutional challenges to the law," said Terry
Bretz, an immigration lawyer.   LENA WILLIAMS

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 23, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Refugee Lawyer Called Bogus

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: LYNDHURST


In the last four years, Manuel Gaitan represented about 800 immigrants from
Central and South America seeking political asylum, charging them about $1,500
each, the authorities said yesterday. But there was one problem: he is not a
lawyer. Last Thursday, Mr. Gaitan, 56, of Jersey City, was arrested and charged
with the unauthorized practice of law, said Charles R. Buckley, the Acting
Prosecutor for Bergen County. He was caught when an officer for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service became suspicious and contacted the New Jersey State
Bar Association, Mr. Buckley said. Lori Nessel, director of the immigration
clinic at the Seton Hall Center for Social Justice, said the case showed "how
desperate people without legal immigration status are."

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Fable

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 104 words


To the Editor:

Bob Herbert's "Throw Them Out" (column, Aug. 2), on legal immigrants losing
benefits under a new welfare law, raises troublesome questions. All of Mr.
Herbert's examples were said to have been in the United States for many years
but none became American citizens. One wonders why. I expect that we will take
care of these folk because that is what Americans do. But a legitimate question
is still unanswered: What is the obligation of us ants to look after the
grasshoppers who, when they were able, couldn't be bothered to look after
themselves?

DEBORAH SIBBALD
Wilmington, Del., Aug. 5, 1996

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

No Vacancy

BYLINE: By Francis Fukuyama;   Francis Fukuyama is a professor of public policy
at George Mason University and the author, most recently, of "Trust: The Social
Virtues and the Creation of Prosperity."

SECTION: Section 7;  Page 18;  Column 3;  Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words



 The Case Against Immigration

The Moral, Economic, Social,

and Environmental Reasons for Reducing

U.S. Immigration Back to Traditional Levels.

By Roy Beck.

287 pp. New York:

W. W. Norton & Company. $24.

The Immigration Mystique

America's False Conscience.

By Chilton Williamson Jr.

202 pp. New York:

Basic Books. $23.

There are two separate cases to be made against immigration, one economic and
reflecting the concerns of the left, the other cultural and from the right. They
are laid out by Roy Beck and Chilton Williamson Jr., respectively; the
arguments, while not altogether new, are presented carefully and dispassionately
and deserve serious answers. These two books have a great deal in common. Both
assert that immigration has been opposed by large majorities of Americans, not
just in the recent past but since the first big wave of Irish and Germans
reached America in the 1840's. Both note that despite these wishes,
pro-immigration policies have been successfully prosecuted by elites. Both point
to John F. Kennedy's pivotal role in the immigration act that became law in
1965, opening the gates to a new wave, and both criticize the measure's
supporters for being dishonest in understating the size and consequences of its
passage. Both complain that foes of immigration are tarred with the charge of
bigotry in ways that stifle reasonable discussion.

"The Case Against Immigration" makes a coherent populist argument for cutting
immigration on the ground that it contributes to the "crisis of the middle
class" -- stagnant to falling real wages that breed deteriorating communities
and crumbling families. Mr. Beck, the Washington editor of The Social Contract,
a quarterly journal, advocates capping immigration to create labor shortages and
so drive up wages, thus re-creating the working-class prosperity of the 1950's,
while forcing the adoption of labor-saving technology to cushion the impact of
rising wage costs on consumers. Immigration, he argues, has been particularly
harmful to blacks, whose social mobility was held back by European immigrants
during Reconstruction and is held back by Hispanics today.

Mr. Beck tries to make the untenable case that immigration harms all sectors of
the economy, including high technology, detailing every conceivable cost while
ignoring any benefits and assuming that the economy can provide only a fixed
number of jobs. But if Eric Benhamou, the founder of 3Com, a major computer
networking company, had not emigrated from Algeria, his job would not have been
filled by a native; 3Com, with its billions in market capitalization, and the
3,000 jobs it has created, would simply not exist.

Mr. Beck is on stronger ground when he argues that immigration has increased the
gap between rich and poor. While the number of high-skill jobs is open-ended,
low-skill work has been disappearing, and there is evidence that immigration has
driven down the wages of inner-city blacks and others at the bottom of the labor
market. The problem with Mr. Beck's anti-immigrationist solution is that
competition from immigrant workers is only one of several reasons for falling
working-class incomes. Equally if not more important are technological advance,
foreign competition both in the form of the import of goods and the export of
jobs, the opening up of formerly protected sectors to greater competition, and
the entry of women into the work force. Ending immigration would not begin to
restore working-class incomes, or bring back those tidy neighborhoods and
families that Mr. Beck nostalgically evokes. The United States would also have
to erect protectionist walls (something I suspect Mr. Beck also favors) and
reregulate many industries. The short-term consequence would be higher levels of
unemployment (as in Europe), and in the longer run a debacle as the United
States priced itself out of global markets.

While Chilton Williamson Jr. also points to immigration's consequences for
working Americans, blacks and the environment, his real concern is with culture.
He shows that from the country's founding, Americans have believed themselves
united by something more than the democratic idea and the Constitution; as John
Jay put it in the Federalist Papers, "Providence has been pleased to give this
one connected country to one united people, a people descended from the same
ancestors . . . very similar in their manners and customs." American identity
was based on Anglo-Saxon Protestant culture; already greatly weakened by the
"great wave" of immigration of 1880-1924, it is now, Mr. Williamson says, under
intense attack by more recent arrivals. A senior editor of Chronicles: A
Magazine of American Culture, he makes a cogent case that the multiculturalism
of many liberal supporters of immigration will further erode what is left of a
once coherent common culture.

Mr. Williamson argues persuasively that the United States should judge
immigration in terms of its own national interests, and that the interests of
immigrants do not automatically trump the right of a national community to
determine its own cultural identity. The weakness of his view is that if one
takes seriously the need for a common culture, based not on ethnicity but on
shared values like work ethic, individual responsibility, concern for family and
the like, immigrants are more likely to do good than harm. Not only do many
immigrants possess these virtues to a greater extent than natives, but the
cultural disintegration deplored by Mr. Williamson is a project pushed primarily
by native elites, both white and black, to protect their positions or beliefs,
and would remain even if immigration were shut off and the last five million
foreigners sent home. The problem of multiculturalism ought to be dealt with in
its own terms.

Both Mr. Beck's concern over the falling incomes of low-skilled workers and Mr.
Williamson's worries about cultural disintegration can be addressed by the kind
of "designer immigration" advocated by Ben Wattenberg: clamping down on illegal
immigration while reorienting legal immigration to skills rather than family
reunification. Still, while it is easy to disagree with both these books, the
authors have presented their cases in a way that fosters serious debate rather
than name-calling.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 12, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Assails Rule On Reporting Aliens

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 126 words


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani warned that "chaos" would result from an element of
the Federal welfare bill that would allow city employees to report to
immigration authorities illegal immigrants who seek services like police
protection, hospital care and public education.

As a result, he said, the city intends to sue the Federal Government to block
enforcement of the provision, arguing that it violates the United States
Constitution.

The Mayor said the provision was designed to overturn an executive order signed
by Mayor Edward I. Koch that prohibits city employees from turning over
information on an immigrant to the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service unless the immigrant has been charged with a crime.

Article, page B1.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 13, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Anxieties Spur A Surge in Naturalizations

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1617 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Sept. 12


At the George R. Brown Convention Center here today, more than 6,000 people from
80 countries stood and took the oath to become citizens of the United States.
Next Tuesday at Texas Stadium, where the Dallas Cowboys play their home games,
10,000 people will do so.

The next day, in San Jose, Calif., from 12,000 to 15,000 people are expected to
take the oath, renouncing allegiance to "any foreign prince, potentate, state or
sovereignty," and becoming American citizens.

These mass swearings-in are all part of a surge in naturalizations in recent
months that has no parallel in American history, one that many experts say is
fueled in part by the anti-immigrant laws and public sentiment of recent years.

There are other factors at work, as well, such as major changes in immigration
laws several years ago that are only now allowing some immigrants to apply for
citizenship or that make it easier for others to do so. And the increases have
embroiled the Clinton Administration in election-year charges that it is engaged
in a massive effort to turn out new Democratic voters this fall.

Whatever the causes, the results are unquestionable and unprecedented: By the
time the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30, nearly 1.1 million immigrants will have
become citizens this year, shattering the record, set just last year, of 445,853
naturalizations, according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
previous record was in 1944, when 441,979 foreign-born residents became American
citizens.

More than 75 percent of the new citizens are concentrated in and around six
cities, all in states with large electoral votes: New York, Los Angeles,
Chicago, San Francisco, Miami and Houston.

For years, millions of immigrants have lived in the United States with no
particular sense of urgency to become American citizens. That was especially
true for many Mexican-born residents here, who could more easily keep their ties
to Mexico because of their proximity to that country and who have constituted
the largest single group of people, by nationality, applying for citizenship
today.

But more than any other single event, say many people who work with immigrants
or study immigration issues, the passage two years ago of Proposition 187 in
California has spurred many immigrants to exercise their legal right to apply
for American citizenship. The California referendum, approved by the state's
voters, was intended to crack down on benefits for illegal immigrants but was
widely interpreted as an attack on all immigrants.

"When 187 passed, it sparked a lot of concerns all over the country," said Maria
Jimenez, director of the immigration law monitoring project for the American
Friends Service Committee, which provides services for immigrants. "Let's say it
was sort of the bell that woke up the sleeping giant."

Now there is another, possibly even louder bell: the welfare law that President
Clinton signed last month and is intended to save $55 billion over the next six
years, in part by substantially cutting a number of benefits for legal
immigrants.

Anxiety over these policy changes was palpable among many of the 3,200 people
sworn in as American citizens this morning in Houston, the first of two such
events here today, and many said the changes were a primary reason for becoming
naturalized.

"I just never thought I really needed it before," said Felicitas O. Velasquez, a
57-year-old school custodian who was born in Mexico and has lived in Houston
since 1959, and who decided to apply for citizenship last year. "But I've heard
a lot on the news. Everybody says that maybe now is a good time to become a
citizen. If you're not, they're coming after you."

Hector Pena, 38, a welder who came to Texas from Monterrey, Mexico, 18 years
ago, said, "I want to protect myself and my family."

Clutching his 2-year-old son, Kevin, Mr. Pena added: "What happens if I have an
accident? With these new laws, it sounds like they are taking everything away
from immigrants -- insurance, everything -- even if you've been paying taxes for
all these years. As an American citizen, you have protection."

If these new citizens register to vote in large numbers, many political experts
believe the Democrats will be the prime beneficiary. Although Mr. Clinton signed
the welfare law, he has denounced the cutbacks on benefits to immigrants and has
promised to try to soften them if he is re-elected.

By contrast, the Republican Party has been widely viewed as more inclined than
the Democrats to support laws curtailing immigrants' benefits. The most
prominent supporter of Proposition 187 was Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, and
the welfare legislation that the President said he signed with some reluctance
was drafted by the Republican-controlled Congress.

Moreover, with most of the new citizens in large cities like New York and
Chicago, which are Democratic strongholds, many Republicans and conservative
critics say the citizenship drive is a partisan effort by the Clinton
Administration to register new voters in time for Election Day.

"I don't think there's any question that there's a political motivation here,"
said Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a group that favors greater restrictions in immigration. "This is Boss
Tweed, Tammany Hall politics, 1990's style."

Indeed, that speculation was fueled recently by an internal memorandum prepared
for Mr. Clinton by Vice President Al Gore's office; the memo has been trumpeted
by some Republicans as evidence of a get-out-the-vote conspiracy.

"I.N.S. warns that if we are too aggressive at removing the roadblocks to
success" in obtaining citizenship, the memo reads, "we might be publicly
criticized for running a pro-Democratic voter mill, and even risk having
Congress stop us."

Recent Republican-backed hearings in Congress have also produced some evidence
around the country of breaches in the approval process, such as approval of
several thousand citizenship applications before checks for criminal records
were completed. And a company in Dallas is under investigation after being
accused of allowing immigrants to cheat on citizenship tests.

But immigration officials say that the "Citizenship U.S.A." drive, begun by Mr.
Gore amid fanfare last year, was a bipartisan effort to whittle down a huge
backlog of citizenship applications. The drive was approved in the budget passed
by the Republican Congress last year.

"If we had not adopted this program, we would have been criticized for
dereliction of duty," said T. Alexander Aleinikoff, the immigration agency's
executive associate commissioner for programs, who oversees the citizenship
program. "The irony is, when we do something good we are criticized."

In general, immigrants who have lived in the United States for five years with
proper certification are eligible to apply for citizenship; immediate relatives
of citizens may apply sooner.

To be accepted, they must have no serious criminal record and pass a language
and a civics test.

As recently as the 1990 fiscal year, just 270,000 people were naturalized,
barely a quarter of the number who will be this year. And the rush to naturalize
shows no signs of lessening: the I.N.S. estimates that another 1.1 million
immigrants will become citizens next year.

Several changes in immigration laws and regulations account for part of the
increase. Under amnesty provisions of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of
1986, for example, from two million to three million formerly illegal immigrants
have become eligible in recent years to apply for citizenship.

Also, the immigration agency now requires anyone who, before 1979, had a "green
card" -- a card issued by the Federal Government permitting them to work in the
United States -- to apply for a new, computer-compatible card similar to bank
cards. The card costs $75, while an application for citizenship costs $95. As a
result, many immigrants simply spend the extra $20 to apply for citizenship.

Another factor that is driving the applications is fear, driven by such measures
as Proposition 187 and the new welfare law, that the benefits of people who are
not citizens are under attack. While these laws were pushed by the Republican
Party, many of the new citizens they seem to be motivating are believed to be
more likely to support the Democratic Party.

"What's interesting about the causes of these increases is that they are
Republican causes, if you really think about it," said a senior immigration
official. The amnesty law dates to the Reagan Administration.

There are about 10 million legal non-citizens in the United States now, of whom
about seven million, including a million children, are eligible to apply for
citizenship, the immigration agency says.

In the 1940's, studies found that about two-thirds of those eligible typically
applied for naturalization. That figure dropped over the next few decades,
partly because of a surge in Mexican immigrants who apparently felt less need to
apply.

A study by the immigration agency four years ago showed that only 17 percent of
Mexicans who entered the United States legally in 1977 sought to become citizens
over the next 15 years, compared with 63 percent of immigrants from the former
Soviet Union, who have the highest rate.

But now, Mexican natives and others may be returning to the World War II-era
rates of application for citizenship. And some people who work with immigrants
say the anxiety about anti-immigration legislation is so great that the rates
may go even higher.

"There will be a big surge coming" because of the new welfare law, said Robert
Crane, an immigration lawyer in South Texas.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "AT A GLANCE: Knocking At Ameroca's Doors" shows number of
petitions for citizenship filed and approved from 1986 to 1996. (Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Services)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

To Belong in America . . . Let Us Count the Ways;
Forget Love

SECTION: Section A;   Page 26;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words


To the Editor:

Bharati Mukherjee's fable of immigrant identity (Op-Ed, Sept. 22) accords with
right-wing arguments that it is not quite ethical for legal immigrants to accept
economic benefits from the United States without assuming citizenship.

She must surely be aware that many immigrants like her received educations in
their countries of origin that were heavily subsidized by their governments. The
net loss to these countries when such people leave for the developed world is
enormous, and it is the economic benefit to the industrialized world -- not
charity and good will -- that has kept immigration of skilled workers open.

Ms. Mukherjee's contention that the subtext of immigration debates is the
expectation of unconditional love is staggering. It is hardly surprising that no
less than Bill Gates of Microsoft spoke to Congress about the critical need for
big business to maintain the supply of skilled immigrants.

Finally, while Ms. Mukherjee's American experience may have taught her to put
references to caste purity in quotation marks, she has not been able to
relinquish caste as a distinguishing mark.

SUSAN KOSHY
Santa Barbara, Calif., Sept. 23, 1996

The writer is an assistant professor of Asian American studies at the University
of California.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Philanthropist Pledges Help To Immigrants

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;   Page 22;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 430 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30


George Soros, the Hungarian-born philanthropist and international financier,
said today he would give $50 million to assist legal immigrants in the United
States.

Mr. Soros said he was creating the new charity in response to the recently
enacted welfare law that greatly restricts public benefits like food stamps and
Supplemental Security Income for legal immigrants.

"I am appalled by Congress's recent action to deny vital public assistance to
noncitizens who are lawfully resident in this country," Mr. Soros, a naturalized
United States citizen, said at a news conference.

"This is a clear-cut case of injustice and is contrary to this country's proud
tradition of welcoming immigrants," he said. Mr. Soros emigrated to England from
Hungary in 1947, and to the United States in 1956.

The money will go largely to pay for the costs of immigrants applying to become
naturalized United States citizens and to assist local and community
organizations that provide English-language classes and other aid to immigrants.

More than 1.1 million immigrants have become naturalized citizens this year, and
Federal officials expect the harsh provisions in the welfare bill to push
equally large numbers of legal immigrants toward citizenship in the next few
years.

The charity, called the Emma Lazarus Fund after the poet whose words are
inscribed on the Statue of Liberty, will also support organizations conducting
legal or educational efforts on the behalf of immigrants.

Immigrant-rights groups expressed astonishment today at Mr. Soros's new project.

"We're thrilled," said Donald Kerwin, chief operating officer for Catholic Legal
Immigration Network, a public-interest organization based in Washington. "This
is probably more money in a given year than all the foundations and state bar
associations give out. It's really shocking."

The new charity is an offshoot of the Open Society Institute and other Soros
philanthropies, which spent $350 million in 1995 mostly in countries undergoing
the transition to democratic regimes.

In addition, Mr. Soros was one of the early proponents of lifting the siege of
Sarajevo during the Bosnian war. He proposed a $50 million aid plan to Bosnia in
1993, but suspended the offer when logistical details bogged down in bickering.

More recently, Mr. Soros has given out or pledged nearly $15 million to help
change the nation's drug policy. For example, Mr. Soros has advocated legalizing
the medical use of marijuana, and has been critical of efforts to treat drug use
as a crime rather than a medical problem.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE DETAILS: Restricting Immigrants"
Through changes in welfare legislation and in the immigration law, Congress has
imposed new restrictions on illegal immigrants and on the use of public money
for illegal immigrants and in some cases, legal immigrants.

PUBLIC ASSISTANCE Illegal immigrants will be ineligible for most public
assistance programs financed by the Federal Government or the states.

They cannot receive grants, Federal contracts or loans, and will not be eligible
for benefits under programs like the Earned Income Tax Credit, Supplemental
Security Income, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, social service block
grants, Medicaid or food stamps, housing, unemployment or financial aid for
college.

Medical emergencies will be covered. Children who are illegal immigrants could
attend Head Start or receive immunizations.

Under the welfare legislation President Clinton signed in August, most legal
immigrants will be ineligible for many public assistance programs.

EMPLOYEE VERIFICATION PROGRAMS Pilot programs will be established in five states
with high populations of illegal immigrants so that employers could voluntarily
check the legal status of prospective workers through a Justice Department
program.

Verification documents will be restricted so that employers must require
prospective employees to produce a United States passport, alien registration
card or other authorization issued by the Justice Department. Under the
agreement, various other forms, like a certificate of citizenship or
naturalization, an unexpired foreign passport or a birth certificate will not be
acceptable.

EMPLOYER SANCTIONS The new immigration financing will allow for 300 more
employees a year for three years to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
They are to be deployed to investigate the unlawful hiring of illegal immigrants
and the smuggling of illegal immigrants.

DISCRIMINATION The burden of proof will be raised for prospective employees who
claim hiring discrimination on the basis of immigration status, so that a job
applicant will have to prove that rejection is a result of intentional
discrimination.

BORDER CONTROL The number of border patrol agents will be doubled to 10,000 by
2001 and 2,700 detention cells will be added.

SMUGGLING Penalties for smuggling people into the United States will be
increased for a prison term of up to 10 years.

FRAUDULENT DOCUMENTS Criminal penalties for fraud or misuse of government-issued
identification documents will increase from 5 years imprisonment to 15 years.

REMOVAL OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS Anyone trying to enter the country without the
proper documents will be subject to deportation. If someone seeking asylum is
found to have no credible fear of persecution after an initial meeting with an
officer, the person will be subject to removal after a hearing before an
immigration judge. Such a hearing will have to take place within seven days, and
there would be no additional appeals. Anyone suspected of terrorism will be
immediately rejected.

Only one hearing will be held and notices of removal proceedings no longer will
be given in Spanish.

Mandatory detention will be imposed on those ordered to leave the country.

EXCLUSION AND DEPORTATION Anyone who represents a terrorist organization will be
deported or denied entry. Any former United States citizen who officially
renounces citizenship to avoid paying taxes will not be permitted to re-enter
the country. And any student who violated a special nonimmigrant status visa
will be banned for five years.

SPONSORING LEGAL IMMIGRANTS For those who sponsor legal immigrants for
citizenship, the income guidelines will be altered so that sponsors would have
to earn more than 125 percent of the poverty level. (The poverty level,
according to 1995 figures, was less than $15,455 for a family of four.)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Seize Control of Immigration Policy Now;
Asian Conservatives

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:

I cannot agree more with Samuel G. Freedman's view in "Democrats by Default"
(Op-Ed, Oct. 8) that attacks on immigrants hurt the Republicans. Mr. Freedman
says Hispanic-American immigrants have exerted a strong socially conservative
force in America because of their Roman Catholic and evangelical Protestant
backgrounds. As an immigrant from China, I wish to add that Asian-Americans also
share many conservative values, largely rooted in Confucian ideology, which
places great importance on the family. The teaching "the father disciplines, the
mother nurtures" designates parental responsibilities.

Confucianism also teaches that public security and order are the basis for a
peaceful existence. Traditional Chinese legal codes dictated that those who
kill, die. The death penalty is the ultimate deterrent for violent crime.

VIVIAN YANG
Jersey City, Oct. 9, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Hispanic March Draws Crowd to Capital

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 26;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12


Waving flags of Mexico, El Salvador, Cuba and the United States, tens of
thousands of Hispanic people marched here today, mixing ethnic pride with
political protest against what they see as growing anti-immigrant and
anti-Hispanic sentiment.

"Gone are the days when people could talk about Latinos as a mob without ideas
and without a political program," said Juan Jose Gutierrez, director of
Coordinadora 96, the coalition that organized the march.

The event, called the Latino and Immigrants' Rights March, was billed as the
first mass protest by Hispanic people in the nation's capital. Its organizers, a
coalition of labor and liberal advocacy groups, had predicted that 100,000
people would participate. It was difficult to determine whether the event met
that goal, since under a new policy mandated by Congress, the United States Park
Service is banned from providing crowd estimates.

The major point of the march, the organizers said, was to protest new laws that
cut off benefits to legal immigrants who are not citizens, make it more
difficult to prove discrimination against companies that fail to hire people
they believe to be illegal immigrants and making political asylum harder to get.
The Republicans who control Congress were held to blame for the laws, which
President Clinton signed.

"Newt Gingrich was the wake-up call," said Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, a
New York Democrat. "If we can't get engaged politically, we will be subjected to
the abuses of the Washington establishment."

Organizers presented seven demands, including an end to cutbacks in
affirmative-action programs; an increase in the minimum wage, to $7 an hour from
$4.75, and the establishment of an amnesty program for illegal immigrants who
came to this country before Jan. 1, 1992.

"We're using what we learned in the civil rights movement," said Representative
Jose E. Serrano, a Bronx Democrat. "It's like the 60's all over again, which is
good and bad. It's good because of the level of activism, but bad because the
issues are the same."

But as much as the march and rally reflected Hispanic anger, it was also an
attempt by many participants to display pride in their heritage. As if to
underscore their double heritage, the rally, held on the Ellipse, south of the
White House, began with a choir singing the national anthem in Spanish and
English.

"For me, this is a way to validate our presence in the United States in a very
friendly way," said Dr. Regina Reanteria Weitzman, a doctor from Washington who
immigrated from Mexico City 10 years ago. She added that she hoped "to send a
message to Congress and to the President of the United States that we are a
people who came here to work, who came here to do good, and we just want to be
part of mainstream America."

Javier Salas, a 25-year-old from Germantown, Md., held a hand-lettered sign that
said in Spanish, "Soy de la tierra y me llaman extra-terrestre." On the other
side was the translation: "I am from Earth and they call me an alien."

The march, which had been planned for three years, took place at a time when a
number of Federal reports show that Hispanic people, about 10 percent of the
United States population, are not sharing in the nation's general prosperity.
While incomes for blacks and whites rose last year, the earnings of Hispanics,
who may be of any race, dropped.

A major theme of the event was the need for Hispanic people to unite and not be
divided by national origins. "We've always allowed regional differences and
cultural differences to separate us," said Geraldo Rivera, the television host.
"What you're seeing now is the beginning of the 21st century in terms of
Latino-American political activism. I think from now on, Washington will be
confronted with a group that puts aside the differences of whether or not they
came from this or that island, or this or that state in Mexico."

"It is time we flex our political muscle," said Christy Haubegger, 28, of New
York City, president of a publishing company that produces a magazine for
Hispanic women. "We have a significant voting bloc in the four major states."

The march began in a park about a mile from the White House and snaked through
the streets; sometimes it seemed as much a festival as a protest. The crowd
danced to salsa music from compact disc players. The Danza Azteca group, from
Washington and Boston, in feathers and costumes worn by Americans before the
arrival of Europeans, danced to drums.

But along with an air of gaiety, the talk kept returning to what marchers said
was a growing hostility toward Hispanic people, as evidenced by proposals to ban
the use of any language except English in government documents and proceedings.

"People are really concerned," said Juan Marinez from East Lansing, Mich., as he
walked alongside his father, Efrain, who came from Mexico 73 years ago and whose
great-grandfather was born in San Antonio when it was still part of Mexico.
"They hear Spanish spoken at the grocery store or at the Kmart, and they say,
'My God, we're being invaded.' But if you really look at it, what was the first
European language that was spoken in this hemisphere? It wasn't English."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thousands of marchers gathered on the Ellipse in Washington
yesterday for the Latino and Immigrants' Rights March. The focus of the protest
was new laws like the one to cut off benefits to legal immigrants. (Kirsten
Elstner for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Welfare Plan Would Aid Some Immigrants

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON

SECTION: Section B;   Page 5;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

DATELINE: TRENTON, Oct. 15


Legal immigrants who arrived before the new Federal welfare law took effect
would be eligible for cash benefits under a welfare plan that Gov. Christine
Todd Whitman submitted today to the Federal Government.

Although legal immigrants would no longer be eligible for Federal welfare
benefits, the Whitman administration outlined its intention to use state dollars
to continue providing cash benefits to almost 15,000 noncitizen families in New
Jersey and other legal immigrants who arrived in this country before the welfare
bill was signed into law on Aug. 22.

Whitman administration officials also said today that they do not expect to lose
any Federal dollars because they missed the Oct. 1 deadline for filing a State
plan to show how New Jersey would comply with the new Federal law.

New Jersey joins 26 other states that have submitted plans to the Federal
Department of Health and Human Services outlining how they intend to use new
block grants that replace the entitlement programs abolished by the law. New
York, which is estimated to be losing about $1 million a day for not filing a
plan, is expected to submit its plan tomorrow. Connecticut has already submitted
its plan.

Gov. Whitman said that she submitted the 17-page plan today, even though it did
not include much detail about her proposal to overhaul the state's welfare
program, because she wanted New Jersey to qualify as quickly as possible for the
new Federal funds. She said that the plan would have been submitted earlier but
state officials were not certain until late last week that the plan did not have
to wait until state legislation was drawn up.

Mrs. Whitman said that she expected legislation would be completed in the next
week outlining her welfare program, which she calls Work First and which she
described to the Republican-controlled Legislature in a speech earlier this
year. She said that New Jersey would amend its plan as filed with the Federal
Government after a new welfare plan wins approval from the State Legislature.

"I would like to see bipartisan support," Mrs. Whitman said. "We have been
reaching out to both sides of the aisle. We want to make this a program that is
going to work for New Jersey and for people who need the support."

In many ways, Governor Whitman's Work First proposal is similar to the new
Federal welfare law. Mrs. Whitman proposes moving welfare recipients more
quickly into the work force and placing a five-year limit on cash benefits for
both families and individuals. The Governor's proposal also would require
unmarried teen-age mothers to continue their education and to live with their
parents or under adult supervision.

And, like the Federal law, the Whitman plan would require welfare recipients to
cooperate with efforts to collect child support.

But the Whitman administration proposes more incentives for welfare recipients
to find a job -- and more support services to assist them -- than many states
have under consideration.

The Whitman plan would increase the amount of their cash benefits that welfare
recipients would be able to retain while working.

She also said that child care assistance and Medicaid benefits would be provided
for two years after an individual is no longer receiving cash benefits.

While the state plan does not describe how it intends to provide Medicaid
benefits under the new Federal welfare rules, Whitman administration officials
propose using state dollars to continue providing Medicaid benefits to nursing
home residents who are noncitizens.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 30, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Chief Plays Down Fears That Many Criminals Got Citizenship

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON

SECTION: Section A;  Page 15;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 707 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 29


Responding to Republican assertions that the immigration service had allowed
thousands of criminals to become citizens, the agency's Commissioner said today
that a preliminary review had found "no evidence that significant numbers" of
law breakers, if any, were granted citizenship.

But the Commissioner, Doris M. Meissner, said in a letter to all 50 governors
that the agency would continue the review, and that it would revoke citizenship
in any instance in which a criminal background of an immigrant had been
overlooked. Ms. Meissner also called the Republican assertions reckless and
misleading.

The issue has smoldered in recent weeks as Republicans accused the Clinton
Administration of wrongly naturalizing as many as 100,000 criminal immigrants
under a program that has granted citizenship to more than one million people
since of August 1995. Republicans have accused the Administration of rushing
ahead with the program in an effort to get a political windfall in the form of
new voters who Republican critics say, are mostly likely to vote for Democrats.

When they began the program, immigration officials said it would clear a backlog
of applications for citizenship and speed the processing of future applications.
Money for the program was included in the budget approved by Congress, and
Clinton campaign officials say this shows that it had at least some support from
Republicans.

On Monday, in response to a subpoena, the Federal Bureau of Investigation gave
the House Government Reform and Oversight subcommittee fingerprint records on
more than 50,000 citizens who were naturalized from Aug. 31, 1995, to Sept. 30,
1996. The F.B.I. deleted the names of the people whose records were provided to
the subcommittee.

"There is no evidence that significant numbers of unqualified individuals have
been or are being granted citizenship," Ms. Meissner said in her letter. "Those
who persist in making reckless and divisive mischaracterizations are being
deeply unfair to the millions of dedicated and patriotic new Americans who have
contributed so much to the vibrancy and spirit of our society."

Her comments came after Bob Dole, the Republican Presidential nominee, and
prominent Republican governors like Pete Wilson of California and George W. Bush
of Texas asserted that the Administration had naturalized people who had
committed serious crimes.

The criticism has resulted in a Congressional inquiry by Representative Bill
Zeliff, Republican of New Hampshire. Staff members of Mr. Zeliff's subcommittee
on national security, international affairs and criminal justice spent today
sifting the nearly one ton of F.B.I records.

Republicans on the subcommittee said tonight that a preliminary review of the
F.B.I. records had provided what Representative William F. Clinger of
Pennslvania called "shocking information" that people who had committed serious
crimes had been naturalized. "We have discovered that many individuals have been
granted citizenship even though they have been charged with serious crimes," Mr.
Clinger said, "in particular spousal abuse and murder -- the disposition of
which remains unresolved."

Immigration and Justice Department officials said today that the list of 50,000
people who had come to the attention of the F.B.I. were found after a computer
review of the 986,000 people naturalized under the program, Citizenship U.S.A.
The officials said most of the people with files at the F.B.I. had come to its
attention because they were involved in administrative, not criminal,
proceedings.

Of the 50,000, only a small number, 1,300 people in a count by the Immigration
and Naturalization Service on Monday, had criminal records, including a felony
or serious misdemeanor, that should have been considered in deciding whether to
disqualify them from citizenship. But the F.B.I. records, which show only
arrests and not dispositions of cases, are not definitive.

The records, immigration officials said, do not necessarily show whether a
person accused of a crime had been convicted or had their conviction reversed on
appeal. The records, they said, are being compared with individual immigration
records to determine how the agency's adjudication officers handled each case.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 27, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Worst Job in The World?

BYLINE: By Claudia Dreifus;    Claudia Dreifus is a contributing writer for the
Magazine. Her most recent interview was with Kareem Abdul-Jabbar.

SECTION: Section 6;   Page 52;   Column 1;   Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 2363 words


During the early months of the Clinton Presidency, when the White House was
mired in aborted appointments -- Lani Guinier, Kimba Wood, Zoe Baird -- the
nomination of a longtime immigration expert named Doris M. Meissner sailed
through the Senate. As Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, she would have a high-profile job that has always been controversial:
keeping open America's front door while slamming shut the back.

"Doris was everyone's idea of the perfect public servant," says Attorney General
Janet Reno, Meissner's boss. Throughout Washington, Meissner was considered a
thoughtful expert on migration issues, having served as Acting I.N.S.
Commissioner under President Ronald Reagan and as director of the Immigration
Policy Project of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. "What's so
special about her," says Reno, "in a town where a lot of people are focused on
their position and their power, is that I've never seen her ego intrude on her
decision making."

Meissner has had a busy time in office, with the I.N.S. beset by management
scandals. A June 1995 riot at the I.N.S.'s Esmor detention center in Elizabeth,
N.J., drew attention to inhumane conditions within the agency's holding system.
That same month, when a Congressional delegation flew down to inspect I.N.S.
operations in Miami, local immigration officials released or moved detainees to
other jails to disguise overcrowded conditions. This year, at Mexican border
crossings in San Diego, I.N.S. agents were accused of returning aliens to Mexico
without counting them, to make it appear as if illegal crossings had been
curtailed.

And then came election season. Meissner's agency became ground zero for an often
raw debate. Nativist proclamations emanated from talk radio and the more
conservative quarters of politics; Pete Wilson, Pat Buchanan and Bob Dole all
blamed an ineffectual Clinton Administration for a leaky border.

"For years, observers have consistently rated I.N.S. as one of the
worst-managed, least-effective Federal agencies," says Representative Lamar
Smith, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Subcommittee on
Immigration. "And too little has happened on this Administration's watch, aside
from blatant self-promotion, to change that reality."

Meissner, of course, defends her agency's record. She is soft-spoken but firm.
During five interviews in her Washington office, she didn't seem to utter a
single unintended word. Yet beneath that control is a woman who has recently
emerged from a personal nightmare. The April airplane crash in Croatia that
killed Commerce Secretary Ron Brown also killed Charles F. Meissner, the
Assistant Secretary for International Economic Policy and Doris Meissner's
husband of 32 years. Several weeks after his death, she returned to her desk.


Q: The Senate's retiring immigration expert, Alan Simpson, says you have the
worst job in the world.

Meissner: I read where he said that. Well, I think the Immigration Service is a
fascinating place. I don't think that in my lifetime the immigration issue has
ever had the saliency and the resonance that it has at this moment. This is the
second-largest immigration period in our country's history. Only a few years
ago, we had about 300,000 naturalizations a year. In 1994 that jumped to about
500,000 and in 1995 to 1,000,000. And with the new welfare reform legislation
that Congress has just passed [which prevents most noncitizens from getting
public assistance], I suspect the numbers will go up.

Q: To curb illegal immigration from Mexico, Pat Buchanan has suggested a fence
along the Southwest border.

A: How are we going to do that? What Buchanan is missing is that "the border" is
a lot bigger than our 2,000-mile frontier with Mexico. Our borders are also the
beaches of Florida, the airports and overseas consulates where visas are issued.
About 40 percent of the illegal immigrants in this country are people who have
overstayed legally issued documents.

Now, there's a 14-mile stretch of San Diego that has traditionally accounted for
50 percent of the people illegally crossing into the United States, and that is
an area where we're gaining control. We're fortifying the border, infusing
people, technology and equipment. We're doing fencing where it makes sense.

Q: Congress has just passed a comprehensive immigration bill. Give us your
assessment of the good, the bad and the ugly.

A: The good is what didn't happen with this bill. The Gallegly amendment [which
would have thrown the children of illegal immigrants out of public schools] was
defeated. A back-door set of changes [aimed at curbing] legal immigration was
dropped. Fundamentally, the new law helps by maintaining a distinction between
legal and illegal immigration.

On the other side, the new law has deportation provisions that are mandatory and
retroactive and that will affect a lot of people who've been here for a long
time. I can see a great deal of pressure coming down on the agency -- a lot of
telephone calls to me and private legislation on behalf of individuals -- and
the I.N.S. will be viewed as the bad guy, as harsh and unrelenting, when in fact
we're just carrying out the will of Congress.


Q: Congress also grafted substantial revisions in immigration law onto several
pieces of unrelated legislation. The welfare reform law, for instance, has a
section barring legal immigrants from receiving most benefits. How will these
changes affect the I.N.S.?


A: Nobody disputes that illegal immigrants should be denied benefits. But they
are already ineligible for all the major cash-assistance programs. This welfare
bill said that those who've come in legally, who've played by the rules and are
paying taxes will, should they fall on hard times, not be treated the way
citizens are. That's a major change in the social contract.

There is a right way and a wrong way to deal with illegal immigration. The right
way is to prevent and deter illegal entry at the borders, and also at the
workplace. Most people who come into the country illegally come for jobs. So
being effective means making it hard for an illegal immigrant to get employment.
Yet with this Congress, it's been an uphill battle to get resources for employer
enforcement.

Q: George Soros, the financier and philanthropist, read about the new
immigration law and said, "I am appalled by Congress's recent action to deny
vital public assistance to noncitizens who are lawfully resident in this
country," and he set up a $50 million fund to help counter it. Do you find it
embarrassing that a private figure felt compelled to do this?

A: Why should I find it embarrassing? It's a fabulous and noble thing he has
done. I'm distressed and sorry that the circumstances are such that there's a
need for such a step.

Q: In the book "Alien Nation," Peter Brimelow argued that high immigration
levels -- particularly from underdeveloped countries -- were going to wreck this
country. How do you feel about his point, that race and ethnicity should be
factors in determining immigration policy?

A: I didn't read his book, but I do know this: We are a society committed to
equal opportunity, and in 1965 we rejected national origins as a basis of
immigration. But race and ethnicity are not the dispositive factors here. The
crucial issue is the strength of our civil society. We have to be absolutely
certain that new people learn that we live in a democratic society where there
are certain things we do -- vote, send the kids to school, pick up the trash,
join the P.T.A. Speaking English is the single most important factor in
immigrants' making a success of it.

Q: So you oppose the idea of national origins being a factor in immigration
policy. But the new bill requires that any American wishing to sponsor
immigrants must have an income 125 percent above the poverty level. Previously,
a sponsor needed only an income at poverty level. Doesn't this discriminate
against immigrants from poor countries?


A: This was something we opposed. At first, Congress had this at 200 percent,
then 140 percent; 125 percent was the compromise.

Q: A lot of proposals floating around state legislatures are aimed at throwing
the children of illegal immigrants out of public schools. Do you find such ideas
helpful?

A: No. I also disagree with the similar notion of barring the U.S.-born children
of illegals from citizenship. Now, it used to be that a child born in the United
States would create the basis for the parents getting legal status. That has
been changed -- the parents cannot get legal status until the child is 21. It's
hard to imagine that people come and have a baby for the sake of waiting 21
years in order to get legal status.

Q: Alan Simpson insists they do.

A: Well, the evidence does not show that. I mean, this is an area in immigration
where the cure is worse than the disease. If you were to have this provision
where children born of illegals would not become citizens, you would build into
the society a class that would never have any rights. That's not healthy for the
rest of us.

Q: New Americans almost always describe their experiences with the immigration
service as Orwellian nightmares. Are they exaggerating?

A: Well, this has not been an agency known for its customer friendliness. And I
don't know if it can become that. Our people are often in a position of being
surly because they haven't been equipped to do their jobs properly. They work in
terrible and demoralizing settings; they lack the modern information systems
they need to give reliable information; they rely on byzantine forms and too
many forms.

Q: One of the agency's more customer-friendly innovations has been a program
called Citizenship U.S.A., which speeds up the processing of naturalization
applications and often has mass swearing-in ceremonies, at which you
occasionally preside. Why has this program made some Republicans in Congress so
angry?

A: Citizenship is one of those issues that's very easy to support until it seems
that you're doing it in a serious fashion. And we are. And we've done it in the
face of extraordinary numbers of applications. If we had kept doing business as
usual, we would now be hearing an unbelievable cacophony of criticism about our
inefficiency, our ineffectiveness.

Q: Recently there have been three I.N.S. management scandals: in Elizabeth,
Miami and San Diego. What have you done about them?

A: At the New Jersey detention center we basically ended the relationship with
the contractor because there were substantial deficiencies, failures, things
wrong. Then we put into place a whole series of corrective measures. And we will
not reopen that facility until I am convinced that all the corrective measures
have been addressed.

Now, the Miami situation is one where we received a report from the Justice
Department Inspector General, and it was very damaging. As soon as I read the
report, we reassigned four senior managers to nonsupervisory duties.

In terms of San Diego, we have allegations from a Border Patrol union leader who
says he has information that we manipulated numbers in order to make Operation
Gatekeeper look good. As soon as we got those allegations, we put our internal
audit staff onto it, sent them to San Diego to Border Patrol musters and asked
people to come forward with information. We have broadened the investigation so
that it is now a joint I.N.S.-Justice Department investigation. We did a macro
review of the apprehension numbers vis-a-vis fingerprint data to see if there is
any reason to imagine that anybody manipulated numbers. There's no data that
lead us to conclude that any manipulation of the numbers was done.

Q: Weren't your own parents immigrants?

A: Oh, yes, they came from Germany in the 1920's, separately. My father passed
through Ellis Island in 1927 without problems. Still, for years he had a lot of
anxiety. At one point his naturalization papers were lost in a fire, and there
was incredible concern about whether he could get a copy. When your parents are
immigrants, you grow up understanding immigration in a way that you never could
from a textbook: how precious and difficult it is.

Q: As a young woman, what did you expect to be doing with your life?

A: Well, I didn't have career expectations the way we talk about them now. I
married my husband the day before I graduated from the University of Wisconsin
in 1963. We'd met during my freshman year, studied together, supported each
other, were pals together. One factor that made my later professional life
possible was that my husband was totally open to, shall we say, a nontraditional
set of assumptions. He was always one of my biggest promoters. And I his. I
don't know how to depict it for you. He was just a really decent, nice man.

Q: The San Diego allegations were made while you were still mourning your
husband. While you were dealing with that, FAIR, the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, called for your resignation.

A: Well, that comes with the territory, and I have no intention of resigning. I
think the most important thing about their press release was that nobody jumped
on the bandwagon.

Q: You returned to your office a month after your husband was killed. Was it
difficult to go back so quickly?

A: Well, of course it was. But what else would you do? I mean, what else would
you do? I have a purpose here. It was very hard. It continues to be.


Q: Washington is thought to be a coldhearted town. How did people treat you
after your husband's death?

A: The day after the terrible news, Alice Rivlin and Donna Shalala were in my
living room. Janet Reno took me to dinner, but then, Janet Reno has always been
there for me. I don't know how to get my arms around it all. One friend came to
pay a condolence call and she looked at my piano and asked, "Do you play now?"
My daughter said, "She plays when she's sad." And I said, "I've been playing
lately, but the piano is so out of tune that I sound lousy." The next day a
piano tuner showed up at my door.

NAME: Doris M. Meissner

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Doris Meissner. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELFIE SEMOTAN FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (pg. 53); Meissner at a naturalization ceremony in Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
DANNY TURNER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. 54)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CROWN HEIGHTS;
Haitians Serve Politics At Festival

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 6;   Column 6;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


It won't be all rum punch and steel bands at the West Indian Day Parade in Crown
Heights tomorrow.  Hoping to inject a dose of politics into the annual Caribbean
festival, a coalition of Haitians will use the occasion to call attention to
recent Federal legislation that cuts off government benefits to legal
immigrants.

"Our community, the larger Caribbean community, is under attack this year with
the anti-immigrant backlash," said Daniel Simidor, a founding member of the
Haitian Mobilization to Defend Immigrants' Rights. "In the midst of our
celebration, we need to make people aware in our community."

Mr. Simidor's group plans to distribute more than 50,000 fliers designed to
educate paradegoers about welfare reform legislation: the welfare bill, which
President Clinton signed into law earlier this month, generally bars legal
immigrants from collecting food stamps and Supplemental Security Income and
gives states the right to deny welfare, Medicaid and other government benefits
to noncitizens.

The Haitian group's campaign runs counter to a longstanding tradition to keep
the parade more of a celebratory event than a political one. Organizers of the
parade did not return calls for comment.

During the West Indian Day parade seven years ago, Mr. Simidor, 40, displayed an
effigy of Ertha Crouillot, a Haitian official backed by the military, whom he
despised. During tomorrow's parade, Mr. Simidor said he will carry an effigy of
the Statue of Liberty as a symbol of what he says is America's broken promise to
its newcomers.

"People can't believe I'm doing this kind of work," he said. "But there's an
urgent need for it right now, and it's something that should have been done a
long time ago."   SOMINI SENGUPTA

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 402 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 1, 1996 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Points of Agreement, and Disagreement, on the Wefare Bill

BYLINE: By MONICA BORKOWSKI

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22; THE WELFARE BILL

LENGTH: 825 words


After vetoing two Republic versions of welfare overhaul legislation, President
Clinton said yesterday that he would sign a compromise bill that would end the
Federal guarantee of cash assistance for the poor. The bill was completed this
week by House and Senate conference committees; here are provisions on which
legislators did not try to accommodate the Clinton Administration, and those on
which they did.

PROVISIONS THAT WERE RETAINED DESPITE CLINTON ADMINISTRATION OBJECTIONS...
CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
FOOD STAMP SPENDING
Cuts projected spending on food stamps by roughly $24 billion over six years,
with at least $3 billion more saved by denying food stamps to legal immigrants.
Limits food stamps for unemployed workers not raising children.

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
Had wanted the cuts scaled back and criticized the restriction on food stamps to
the unemployed.

VOUCHERS
CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
Prohibits states from using Federal block grants to provide vouchers or other
noncash benefits to families who reach the five-year limit on cash assistance.
However, states could finance them under a separate law that authorizes social
services for poor.

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
Had sought approval for block-grant spending, to help families buy diapers,
clothing, medicine and school supplies for children.

CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
IMMIGRANTS
Future legal immigrants who have not become citizens would be ineligible for
most Federal welfare benefits and social services during their first five years
in the U.S. Supplemental Security income and food stamps would end for
non-citizens now receiving benefits.

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
Wanted these cuts scaled back.

...AND PROVISIONS THAT WERE CHANGED

CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
FOOD STAMP ALLOCATION
Dropped a provision that would have allowed state to receive their food stamp
money as a lump sum and let them redesign the food stamp program by setting
their own eligibility criteria and benefit levels.

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
FOOD STAMP ALLOCATION
Managed to preserve the Federal guarantee of food stamps for poor people, with
uniform national standards.

CONFERENCE COMMITTE
CHILD CARE
Increased the amount available to provide day care for the children of welfare
recipients to $14 billion over six years.

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
CHILD CARE
Succeeded in strengthening provisions for child care.

CONFERENCE COMMITTEE
MEDICAID
States must provide Medicaid for anyone who qualifies under current law. States
must provide Medicaid coverage for one year for families that lose eligibility
because of new standards. Allows states to provide Medicaid for legal immigrants
already in the U.S.

CLINTON ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAID
Managed to preserve Federal guarantee of health coverage under Medicaid.

OTHER MAJOR PROVISIONS
* The Federal guarantee of cash assistance for poor children would end. Each
state would receive a lump sum to run its own welfare and work programs.
*The head of every family on welfare would have to work within two years, or the
family would lose benefits. After receiving welfare for two months, adults would
perform community service unless they had found jobs. States could choose not to
have a requirement.
*Lifetime welfare benefits would be limited to five years. (States could set
stricter limits.) Hardship exemptions would be availabel for 20 percent of
families.
*States could provide payments to unmarried tenn-age parents only if a mother
under 18 stays in school and lives with an adult.
*States could shift 30 percent of money in block grants to child care, social
services and child protection (with a maximum of 10 percent going to social
services).
*States would have to maintain their own spending on welfare at 75 percent of
the 1994 level 0 or 80 percent if they failed to put enough welfare recipients
to work.
*States could pay additional benefits to cover children born to women already on
welfare, as many states now do.
*States that did not meet goals for employment of recipients would lose block
grants. Penalty would rise from 5 percent in the first year 21 percent in ninth
year.
*Stricter eligibility standards would exclude many disabled children in
low-income families seeking Supplemental Security Income.
*States would generally have to deny cash assitance and food stamps to people
convicted of drug felonies, unless they explitictly adopted different policies.
In any event, pregnant women and adults in drug treatment would not be denied
assistance.
*States would not penalize a woman on welfare who did not work because she could
not find day care for child under 6 years old. (House and Senate had both
protected women with children under 11.)
*A woman on welfare who refused to cooperate in identifying the father of her
child would lose at least 25 percent of her benefits.
*Innovative state welfare programs could continue under Federal waivers granted
before Oct. 1, 1996, even if they did not comply with all terms of the new
welfare bill.
Sources: House Ways and Means Committee, Senate Finance Committee.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 14, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Smuggled Aliens Now Cross Mohawk Land

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

SECTION: Section B;    Page 1;    Column 2;    Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2062 words

DATELINE: CORNWALL, Ontario, Oct. 9


The Mohawk Indian reservation along the St. Lawrence River here has long been
called Smugglers' Alley, an easy path to sneaking contraband into or out of the
United States.

In the 19th century, that meant the occasional cow going whichever way prices
were higher. During Prohibition, the contraband was an endless stream of liquor
to the United States, and in recent years, it has been huge quantities of
untaxed cigarettes heading north.

Now, a new form of contraband is being smuggled: people. Hundreds of illegal
immigrants are using the Mohawk territory as a pathway to their American dreams.
This new traffic became starkly apparent on the pitch-black night of Oct. 2,
when a makeshift smugglers' boat overturned, killing a Pakistani woman and, it
is believed, a man whose body has not been found, as well as endangering nine
other would-be immigrants from the Indian subcontinent.

These victims represent the tip of the iceberg. In the fiscal year ending Sept.
30, the United States Border Patrol says more than 300 illegal aliens were
caught after apparently passing through the Mohawk territory, up from 130 in the
previous year and 72 the year before that. And the patrol admits it is lucky if
it is catching 1 of 10.

"You can about bet they've been smuggled," said Ed Duda, assistant chief of the
Border Patrol's office in Swanton, Vt., which polices 261 miles of the border.

These desperate seekers, from Koreans to Poles to Jamaicans who had found it
relatively easy to get visas into Canada, pay $500 to $3,000 apiece for the boat
ride of less than 10 minutes from Cornwall Island, part of the Indian territory
in Canada, to Indian territory on the American mainland, border officials say.

Most are bound for New York City. Some have arrangements to be picked up by
limousines sent from New York by those who arranged their passage. Others wander
off on their own to buses or planes. Some try to hitchhike. Some try to walk
until they dissolve into America.

All face immediate deportation or, for anyone who claims refugee status, a long
wait in a detention center while his or her claim is considered. Smugglers, who
are seldom caught, can be fined $25,000 per alien. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service estimates that 15,000 people illegally enter the United
States along the largely unpoliced, 3,500-mile border with Canada each year,
compared with more than a million along the 2,000-mile border with Mexico. In
the area overseen by Mr. Duda's section of the Border Patrol, the number of
illegal aliens captured annually has hovered around 2,000.

"People not from the area cannot fathom the uniqueness of the situation we're up
against," Mr. Duda said. Concerned Border Patrol officials have in recent years
installed seismic, infrared and other sensors and cameras along the American
side of the reservation and have shared information with the Canadian
authorities about people and other forms of smuggling. The Canadian authorities
have seized guns and drugs they say have moved north through the reservation.

Complex Territory Helps Smugglers

The Mohawk land, called the Akwesasne Reserve in Canada and the St. Regis Mohawk
Reservation in the United States, are conducive to smuggling in part because of
their geographic complexity: many islands, big and small, as well as a large
swath of mainland on the American side. The fact that they are under the
jurisdiction of so many governments -- the United States, Canada, New York
State, Ontario and Quebec -- means that often no one is truly responsible. The
situation is further complicated by the Indian contention -- largely realized --
that they rule themselves. Moreover, the Indians' demand for even clearer
sovereignty, sometimes delivered with gunfire, has often encouraged outside
governments to leave the reservation to itself.

In recent years, there has been armed confrontation against the Canadian
Government at a nearby Mohawk location over a golf course which threatened to
encroach on an ancient burial ground. The Akwesasne Reserve has also seen a
civil war, at times involving armed confrontation, over casino gambling.

Signs on the reserve proclaim the area off-limits to the F.B.I., the New York
State Police, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the provincial police and all
revenue authorities. Huge banners depicting khaki-clad warriors wielding
automatic weapons reinforce the point.

People smuggling is still a small-scale phenomenon next to the illegal
importation of untaxed cigarettes a few years ago. The police say that under
this scheme, Canadian cigarettes were shipped to American wholesalers who were
not required to pay taxes levied by the Canadian Federal and provincial
governments. Indians would then buy the cigarettes from the wholesalers and
smuggle them into Canada, where they sold for half the official price of $40
(United States) a carton.

Until Canada drastically cut taxes in 1994, more than $1 billion a year worth of
cigarettes was being smuggled, according to the Canadian revenue authorities.

Tax Cuts End A Tobacco Trade

Those smuggling cigarettes -- and usually alcohol as well -- became rich fast.
Big new homes went up and stretch limousines became a common sight in area
towns. But with the tax cuts on cigarettes, some limousine owners can no longer
afford even oil changes. A sign posted on the bulletin board of the Bear Den, a
reservation restaurant, now advertises a six-door Cadillac limousine for $6,500
or the best offer.

Equally relevant is that a tradition of illegal border business has been firmly
established. "The most damaging aspect of life on Akwesasne is that it was
turned into a relatively unpoliced area that became a haven for other activities
besides cigarette smuggling," said a report by the MacKenzie Institute, a
Canadian research organization.

The police and others thus suggest that the smugglers have moved from tobacco to
people to shore up their flagging incomes. "Necessity is the mother of
invention," said Donald Johnson, a former provincial prosecutor and lawyer for
the boat operator charged with manslaughter in the Pakistani woman's drowning.
"It does seem logical that something like that would happen."

Nighttime Journey Turns Tragic

 Mr. Johnson said he would not comment on the case because prosecutors had not
provided him a specific description of the charges and the evidence.

The new importance of Smugglers' Alley as a conduit for humans became
dramatically -- and tragically -- apparent on the night of Oct. 2. Eleven people
from Pakistan and India were crowded in a homemade, 16-foot-long, flat-bottomed
boat powered by a 20-horsepower motor. A storm came up, rain pelted down and the
inky waters of the river roiled menacingly. The boat began to take on water.

Passengers screamed for the operator to go back to shore, and when he attempted
to turn back, even more water poured into the boat, witnesses on board told the
police. People sat with icy water up to their chests. About 15 minutes after
being called by Indians who had heard the screams from their homes on the shore,
rescuers arrived.

The rescuers, members of the Mohawk fire department, found seven people in the
boat. Six were members of a family from Lahore, Pakistan. These included Tariq
Chaudri and his wife, Zahida, along with their three children: Faraz, 8; Semal,
7, and Ahmed, 3. The other family member was the wife's mother, Naseem Taj, 51.
Ms. Taj died in a local hospital. The police said her death appeared to have
been caused by ingestion of water and hypothermia.

The boat's operator, Arthur Joseph Yops, 30, was found the next day near his
home on the reservation at St. Regis Island, Quebec. He was charged with
manslaughter by the Ontario authorities. A bail hearing has been postponed until
Oct. 29. There are no American charges because the boat never left Canadian
waters.

Rescuers recovered three other men from the boat. A fourth was presumed drowned
after several days of searching. There is, however, speculation among Montreal's
Pakistani residents that the missing man was the organizer of the expedition,
and that he went over to the American side first by himself.

The passengers are in police custody at unidentified locations in Canada, except
one who had an immigration hearing in Ottawa on Oct. 7.

The police suggested that this man, Masood Khan, 34, was the only passenger who
had not been granted some sort of official permission to be in Canada. The
family, for example, was said by the immigration authorities to have lived in
Montreal for 11 months as landed immigrants. Such status or simple visitors'
visas are easier to obtain for Canada than for the United States. As a result,
American and Canadian border officials say it is typical for immigrants to enter
Canada legally, and then be smuggled across the border.

At his immigration hearing, Mr. Khan said he had not applied for such status,
but he asked for admission as a political refugee. He said he paid a smuggler
from New Delhi $3,700 to be hidden in a cargo boat that sailed from Goa, India,
to somewhere near Toronto. He said he fled India because of dangers from his
involvement with separatists in his home state of Kashmir, leaving a wife and
two children behind.

To be allowed to stay in Canada, Mr. Khan, who had been in the country less than
a week when he tried to cross the border, must prove he had "a well-founded fear
of persecution." The process usually takes a year.

Manslaughter Case Reignites Debate

The tragedy has reignited debate in this industrial city of 47,000 over the
issue of smuggling. Since cigarette smuggling stopped pouring money into the
local economy, more people appear to have joined Mayor Ron Martelle in actively
opposing smuggling in general.

Until the Oct. 2 incident, "people considered smuggling a victimless crime," Mr.
Martelle said. "If I could use a lower word than scum to describe these
individuals, I would."

The Mohawk police have insisted that they are also eager to stop human
smuggling. "The access here is so easy," said Sgt. Roger Mitchell of the
Akwesasne Mohawk Police. "If we had more assistance, maybe we could do something
about it."

But other Mohawks feel the resentment over smuggling activities represents
another manifestation of racism. They say fewer than 10 percent of the 10,000
Mohawks were ever involved in any kind of smuggling, and that far fewer smuggle
people.

"Generally, the community is against smuggling," said Diane McDonald, editor of
The Indian Times, a reservation weekly. "It's a negative activity that promotes
an unfavorable image of the Mohawk territory."

But others maintain that Indians are not bound by customs laws, because they
were here before there was a country. "The border is just an inconvenience,"
said Cynthia Smoke, owner and editor of The People's Voice, another Mohawk
weekly. "We think they put it there to make our life difficult."

This argument is being pressed by Michael Mitchell, who in 1988, in his capacity
as grand chief of the Mohawk Council of Akwesasne, deliberately violated what he
calls "the imaginary international border" by taking a truck of American goods
across the Canadian border without formally declaring it.

The case is now being heard by Canada's Supreme Court. At issue is whether
England in the Jay Treaty of 1794 gave the Mohawks perpetual border-crossing
rights, a position Canada denies.

The chief says he does not want to ignore the border to engage in any illegal
activity. But others see no such distinction. Robert Skidders, who owns a
luncheonette selling Native American food, contended that charging a fellow
Mohawk, Mr. Yops, in the death of Ms. Taj is blaming the wrong person. "The poor
guy running the boat is just being told what to do," he said. "But they want to
hang him because he's native."

Meanwhile, people from all over the world find themselves at a pizza parlor in
Massena, N.Y., about seven miles from the reservation. They stop there because
it is where the long-distance buses stop. Some sit all night on the cold ground
waiting to buy a $63.96 ticket for the 9 A.M. Trailways bus to New York City.

"It's been going on and going on and going on and going on," said Matt Hurlbut,
the owner of the pizza parlor. "Finally, people are beginning to take notice
because somebody had to die."

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map showing location where aliens have crossed Mohawk land along the
St. Lawrence River. (pg. B4)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 3, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Dozens of Chinese From 1993 Voyage Still in Jail

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2090 words


The freighter Golden Venture, loaded with a human cargo of 286 smuggled Chinese
immigrants, shuddered to a halt on a sandbar off Queens one drizzly night in
1993. With the twinkling promise of America close enough to touch, many leaped
into the black, pounding surf to make a desperate swim for freedom.

As television crews filmed the huddled passengers on the beach at dawn, they
became a symbol of the lengths to which immigrants will go to reach America. In
the years since, they have become a symbol of something else: the unresolved
tension between this country's commitment to welcoming the persecuted and its
anxiety about being swamped by illegal immigrants.

While more than a third of the passengers have been released or resettled in
Latin American countries, 99 were sent back to China and 55 have remained behind
bars all this time, three years and eight months.

A majority of those on board pursued an unusual ground for asylum: the tyranny
of population control policies. They contended that the Chinese Government had
sterilized them against their will, forced them to have abortions or persecuted
them because they had resisted the Government's policy of one couple, one child.

Many would have won asylum had they come ashore a year earlier -- when George
Bush was President -- say advocates for refugees and Bush Administration
officials. But by the time that the Golden Venture grounded off the Rockaway
Peninsula, the tides had turned against illegal immigrants. In the Clinton
years, such asylum claims were routinely denied. China was not persecuting the
immigrants; it was enforcing a nationwide policy to combat the scourge of
overpopulation, Federal immigration judges ruled.

But this fall, the currents of American immigration policy shifted yet again.
Congress, led by anti-abortion Republicans, this time with President Clinton's
support, passed a new law making resistance to China's population control
policies a form of political opinion and a ground for asylum. It also capped the
number who could qualify at 1,000, a limit unprecedented in immigration law.

Dozens of Golden Venture passengers still detained at the York County Prison in
York, Pa., cheered when their lawyers gathered them together last October for
the news. But their joy has since turned to dejection. So far, only two men,
Zheng Xin Bin, 31, and Chen Fen Hou, 29, have been freed because they are
expected to win asylum under the new law.

The other detainees are still in legal limbo. Some of them told weak stories
that judges did not believe. In other cases, judges denied asylum under the old
legal standard but never determined whether the asylum seekers had told the
truth. Immigration courts will have to reconsider many cases in light of the new
law.

Yang You Yi, still in his prison blues at the York prison, said that his wife
was sterilized against her wishes after the birth of their third child and that
his business was shut down when he refused to pay fines.

His wife begs him in letters to come home if he cannot gain freedom in America,
he said. She and their children, living on the charity of relatives, face
worsening hardships. Mr. Yang said that he tried to go back last year but that
China refused to admit him.

"I have no ability to care for them like a husband and father should," he said
last week from behind a glass partition in the prison's visiting room.

The immigrants' lawyers say continued detention is unnecessary since the Golden
Venture passengers paroled so far have reported in regularly as required, a
statement confirmed by immigration officials.

Beverly Church, a paralegal who has become a den mother to the York detainees
over the last three years, said: "For them, it needs to be over. If some of them
want to return to their country, so be it. And shame on this country."

A White House official who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the
Administration was considering paroling the rest on humanitarian grounds, though
no decision has yet been reached. "No one ever contemplated they would be
detained for three and a half years," he said.

Just as the new law on asylum has yet to resolve all the Golden Venture cases,
neither has it settled the larger human rights issue at stake. While it
ringingly declares that those persecuted for opposing population control
policies are entitled to asylum, it also limits the number who can qualify.

The cap on the number eligible for asylum means that the 1,001st person could be
delivered back into the hands of the government that had persecuted him, though
immigration officials said those over the limit might still be allowed to stay.

Proponents of the bill say they believe that the limit is unlikely to be reached
because so few Chinese can pay exorbitant fees to smugglers to get to the United
States. Grover Joseph Rees, who was general counsel at the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service in the Bush Administration, said the
number of Chinese who won asylum on population control grounds was never more
than 150 in a year.

Nonetheless, advocates for refugees say they are concerned that such limits may
be extended to other forms of persecution and could erode the American
commitment to protecting those deserving of asylum.

"It's an unprincipled way of standing on principle," said Elisa Massimino, legal
director of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in Washington.

Groups that favor more restrictive immigration policies have a different worry.
"One-fifth of humanity lives in China," said Mark Krikorian, executive director
of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research group in Washington. "A broad
and promiscuous granting of asylum that could apply to hundreds of millions of
Chinese is not responsible immigration policy. It could lead to asylum becoming
a vehicle for large-scale immigration to the United States."


Illegal Immigrants And Rising Hostility

On June 6, 1993, the day the Golden Venture landed, the Clinton Administration
was already immersed in one crisis that involved boatloads of refugees from
Haiti, when it found itself confronting another that involved boatloads of
illegal Chinese immigrants, piloted by smugglers.

Though the number of illegal Chinese immigrants apprehended was dwarfed by the
numbers from Mexico and other countries, Federal officials feared the problem
could get out of control. In the previous year and a half, 19 ships carrying
more than 3,000 Chinese nationals had landed or tried to land in the United
States.

None of them, however, won the fame of the Golden Venture, which had the
misfortune of arriving in America's media capital at a time of rising hostility
to immigrants.

To deter smuggling gangs, the Administration decided that asylum seekers like
those brought on the Golden Venture should, with few exceptions, be detained
until their claims were resolved. And the Justice Department began arguing
against asylum in most cases.

Lawyers at the Justice Department relied on a 1989 ruling by the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the highest administrative tribunal in the immigration
system. That decision, Matter of Chang, allowed asylum only for those who could
show that they had been targeted for persecution under the population control
policy because they were, for example, Catholic or a pro-democracy dissident,
not simply because they opposed a policy applied to all Chinese.

"For China to fail to take steps to prevent births might well mean that many
millions of people would be condemned to, at best, the most marginal existence,"
the board wrote in the Chang case.

To avoid returning people to physical danger, the immigration service began
paroling asylum seekers who, in its view, genuinely faced sterilization, forced
abortion or other severe harm in China. Eleven Golden Venture detainees were
released under this plan.

But they were not given asylum -- which would eventually have made them eligible
for permanent residence in the United States and reunification here with their
immediate families -- but only a stay of deportation.

This was a reversal of the previous Administration's approach. In 1990,
President Bush had issued an executive order for the "enhanced consideration" of
asylum claims filed by those persecuted for violating population control rules.

"There was a great concern in the Clinton Administration that this could become
an unmanageable crisis," said Arthur C. Helton, who teaches immigration law at
New York University. "So the Administration took the narrow and grudging
approach reflected in Matter of Chang, and the fate of those on the Golden
Venture was sealed."


One Man's Grim Story And an Appeal Denied

Guo Zhan Xie, a slight man with an elfin face, is one of the Golden Venture
passengers still detained at the York prison. He endured months of sea sickness
in the dank, gloomy hold of the Golden Venture, surviving on a scanty diet of
rice and water. But he says the tedium of the years behind bars has been much
harder to bear.

"The most horrible thing has been being jailed, without freedom," he said.

When he requested asylum, this is the story that he told United States
immigration authorities: A stone-cutter by trade, he was living with his wife
and son in Fujian Province when his troubles began. The local family-planning
authorities had fitted his wife with an intrauterine device after his son's
birth in 1990. Each month, they physically examined her to be sure she was not
pregnant. But in March 1992, she conceived a child. Fearing she would be forced
to abort, they went into hiding. His parents were interrogated but pretended
that they did not know where he was. Enraged by their refusal to cooperate, the
authorities destroyed his parents' home and they, too, fled.

He knew the price could be very high for those who defied the rules, he said.
His underage cousin had been forced to abort a pregnancy at 7 months. And his
sister's home had been destroyed when she was unable to pay fines for having
more than one child.

Fearing he would be sterilized, fined and harassed, he signed on with smugglers
and set out for the United States, leaving his wife and children behind in
China. "I had heard America was a free country," he said.

The Board of Immigration Appeals decision in December 1993 recounted Mr. Guo's
story in a narrative but never explicitly stated that he was credible. Asylum
was denied.

"Abortion and sterilization may be untenable to the applicant's political
beliefs," the board wrote. "Coerced abortions and sterilization are certainly
horrible acts. However, as the applicant has failed to show that the one couple,
one child policy was applied to him for reasons protected under the act, he has
not demonstrated his eligibility for asylum."


Creating Makeshift Art As the Time Drags On

As the years dragged by, the Golden Venture detainees at the York prison made
items from the commonplaces of prison life. They used toilet paper, water and
glue to create elaborate papier-mache confections: caged eagles, fanciful
dragons, Statues of Liberty, even the Golden Venture itself. They folded
thousands of tiny pieces of paper to made intricate bowls and pineapples.

"Making art has kept me alive," Mr. Yang said.

At first, they gave these objects away as gifts to the odd collection of
Pennsylvanians who had adopted their cause, defending them in court and visiting
them in prison. The volunteers included abortion-rights feminists, anti-abortion
conservatives and people who remembered the St. Louis, a ship loaded with Jewish
refugees fleeing the Holocaust that was turned back from America.

"There were liberal 60's bleeding-heart types and conservative pro-life
Republicans," said Craig Trebilcock, the lawyer coordinating the defense of the
Golden Venture detainees who remain at the York prison.

Over the years, thousands of the detainees' artworks have been sold for more
than $100,000 to help pay for their prolonged legal battle. Their folk art is
now on exhibit through April 6 at the Museum of Chinese in the Americas, at 70
Mulberry Street in Chinatown. "The pieces radiate furious industry and
imagination," wrote Adrienne Cooper, a co-curator of the exhibition.

As the men turned their cellblocks into workshops, the people from York and
other nearby towns rallied around them. For 180 Sundays without fail, an
ecumenical group has gathered for a vigil outside the low-slung, beige prison.
They pray, light candles and wave. The men, silhouetted in the windows, wave
back.


LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lee Yue Feng, left, and Yang You Yi are among the Golden
Venture passengers still detained in York, Pa. Mr. Yang said his wife and
children are living on the charity of relatives in China and beg him to return
home. (Cisco Adler for The New York Times) (pg. A1); Some of the illegal Chinese
immigrants on the Golden Venture jumped into the waters of the Atlantic after
the ship ran aground on June 6, 1993. Three years and eight months later, 55
passengers still remain behind bars. (Paul J. DeMaria); Many Golden Venture
passengers are still at the York County Prison in York, Pa. Only two, Zheng Xin
Bin and Chen Fen Hou, left, have been freed because they are likely to win
asylum. They left the prison on Jan. 14. (Lori Crouse Klauber/York Daily Record)
(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

3 Are Indicted in Plot to Smuggle Chinese Aliens Into New York

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 569 words

DATELINE: BOSTON, Oct. 9


Breaking up a scheme to smuggle more than 100 illegal Chinese immigrants into
Massachusetts and then transport them to sweatshops in New York, the United
States Attorney's office here has indicted three Chinese residents of New York
on charges of alien smuggling.

The estimated 109 aliens were taken off a rusting Chinese cargo ship near
Bermuda today and flown on two Coast Guard planes to the American military base
at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, according to State Department officials and the
authorities in Bermuda.

The passengers had been aboard the 221-foot coastal freighter Xing Da since she
left China in June, and were down to their last few pounds of rice and bottles
of water, Robert Farmer, the United States Consul General, said at a news
conference in Bermuda today.

Mr. Farmer said there was evidence that the freighter's 26-man crew included
enforcers for the gang smuggling the immigrants, and they were forcing the
dehydrated passengers to buy water from them.

The indictment, handed down on Tuesday, said the smugglers had agreed to pay an
undercover agent of the Immigration and Naturalization Service $500,000 to get
the Chinese into the United States. Each passenger had contracted to pay the
smugglers $30,000, Mr. Farmer said, adding that part of the money had been paid
in China and the balance was to have been worked off in sweatshops after their
arrival in the United States.

A Coast Guard cutter, the Reliance, intercepted the Xing Da last Wednesday about
110 miles north of Bermuda as she was steaming to meet what the smugglers
believed was a fishing boat from Falmouth, Mass., on Cape Cod. The fishing boat
was to have ferried the aliens ashore in Massachusetts.

But the captain of the smaller vessel was actually an undercover agent of the
immigration service who had been meeting with the smugglers since at least last
December, according to Donald K. Stern, the United States Attorney here.

One of the smugglers, Nai Fook Li, 30, was aboard the rendezvous ship in the
Atlantic and was arrested by the immigration agent on Oct. 2 after the Xing Da
had been intercepted.

He and the other two men who were indicted, Hui Lin, 34, and Yiu Ming Kwan, 45,
were said to be residents of New York. Mr. Lin and Mr. Kwan were arrested
separately in New York and are in custody.

Mr. Stern said officials did not know whether there was any connection between
the gangs that have transported earlier groups of illegal immigrants -- among
them the 280 illegal immigrants on board the Golden Venture, which ran aground
off New York City in 1993 -- and the three men who were indicted on Tuesday.

The investigation is continuing and more arrests are expected, he said.

At Guantanamo Bay, the Xing Da's passengers will be screened and those who do
not have a legitimate claim to enter the United States will be sent back to
China under a recent agreement with the Chinese Government, said Susan Snyder, a
State Department spokeswoman.

The crew was also flown today to Guantanamo Bay under guard by United State
marines.

The three men indicted on Tuesday were each charged with two counts of
conspiracy to commit alien smuggling "for purposes of commercial advantage and
private financial gain," and two counts of attempted alien smuggling. They face
a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison for each alien they tried to smuggle
into the country, and a fine of up to $250,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

3 Plead Guilty to Enslaving Migrant Workers in South Carolina

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 553 words


Three men pleaded guilty yesterday to enslaving migrant workers in South
Carolina as part of a scheme in which the workers were threatened with violence
if they sought to escape.

The three men admitted being part of a conspiracy in which they charged
undocumented workers a steep smuggling fee for transporting them from Arizona to
South Carolina and then kept them in indefinite indentured servitude while they
worked to pay off the fee.

The United States Department of Justice announced yesterday that Miguel Angel
Flores, a contractor who provided workers to farms, and two of his assistants
pleaded guilty in Federal court in Charleston, S.C.

"These convictions come at the very time that thousands of workers are preparing
to take to the fields for yet another harvest that feeds the world," said Labor
Secretary Alexis Herman. "Other farm labor contractors should take note. If you
abuse the hard-working people you've hired, we will make sure you are prosecuted
to the fullest extent of the law."

Mr. Flores and the other two defendants recruited Guatemalan and Mexican workers
in Chandler Heights, Ariz., at the Mexican border and then drove them for two
days to Manning, S.C., without stopping to let them eat or use bathrooms,
according to the charges against them.

Because Mr. Flores paid the workers very little and charged them high prices for
housing and other essentials, it was virtually impossible for them to pay back
the smuggling fee, Federal prosecutors said.

The prosecutors said that Mr. Flores and his assistants beat two workers after
they protested their enslavement. One worker, Ramon Pena, was struck in the head
with a pistol and suffered a concussion and severely bruised face.

"People like Mr. Flores and his associates show an absolute disregard for basic
human decency," said Isabelle Katz Pinzler, Acting Assistant Attorney General
for Civil Rights. "This case demonstrates our commitment to take whatever steps
are necessary to stop them."

The workers were impoverished, undocumented aliens who spoke no English and had
little education. They were kept in an isolated camp that consisted of three
barracks surrounded by woods and marshes. The indictment said that Mr. Flores
and his assistants fired their guns around the compound to intimidate the
workers.

Mr. Flores pleaded guilty to six counts of indentured servitude violations, six
counts of extortion, seven counts of immigration violations, two counts of labor
violations and one count of conspiracy.

One of his assistants, Sebastian Gomez, pleaded guilty to conspiracy, indentured
servitude, extortion and haboring illegal aliens, while another assistant,
Andres Ixcoy, pleaded guilty to one conspiracy count.

A fourth defendant, Nolasco Castaneda, who was also indicted last November,
remains at large.

Each count of extortion and indentured servitude is punishable by up to 10 years
in prison. The other counts carry lesser penalties.

Sentencing is scheduled for Aug. 25.

Mr. Flores has provided labor to farmers in South Carolina and Florida since the
1980's. Ms. Herman said the Labor Department began investigating Mr. Flores in
1987 and repeatedly fined him for labor law violations.

The department eventually revoked his license to work as a labor contractor, but
he disregarded the order.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 4, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Job Search Lures Mexicans to Far Corners of U.S.

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 989 words

DATELINE: GUADALAJARA, Mexico


Few places in the United States would seem less likely to attract Mexican
migrant workers than Alaska.

But that's where Dr. Martin D'Giesecke Garcia headed after the peso devaluation
wiped out his medical practice here and tripled his mortgage payments in 1995.
He boarded a plane for Kodiak Island, where in a growing community of Mexican
workers he found a job gutting cod on a trawler in the Bering Sea.

Rigoberto Ayala provides another example of how Mexico's migrant labor patterns
are changing. Starting in 1984, Mr. Ayala traveled back and forth each year
between his hometown, 50 miles east of Guadalajara, and Stockton, Calif., where
he harvested sugar beets. But since 1991 he has been traveling instead to Hawaii
to work in the pineapple and cane fields.

Over the decades, millions of Mexicans have headed from Guadalajara, and the
vast agricultural region that surrounds it, north to traditional work sites like
the lettuce fields of California, the cattle ranches of Texas and the restaurant
kitchens of Chicago. But now Mexican workers are finding new frontiers,
responding to a demand for cheap labor in parts of the United States far from
its southwestern border.

Growing numbers are traveling not only to Alaska and Hawaii, but also to
cultivate mushrooms in Pennsylvania, build offices in Atlanta, milk cows in
Idaho, harvest tobacco in North Carolina, slaughter pigs in Iowa, manicure lawns
in New Jersey, wash dishes in Michigan, clean fish in Maryland and bale hay in
South Dakota.

As Jorge Durand, a University of Guadalajara demographer who has studied
migration since 1980, put it: "Mexican workers are traveling to new areas,
crisscrossing the United States in ways that break dramatically with traditional
patterns."

The dispersion of Mexicans into virtually all 50 states has increased since
1986, when passage of the Immigration Reform and Control Act legalized the
status of more than two million Mexicans who had been working in the United
States without documents. The law enabled them to migrate to remote regions
without risking arrest, Mr. Durand said.

The trend has accelerated since the 1994 peso crisis, when many middle-class
Mexicans began traveling north in search of work, demographers say. Those more
affluent workers have found it easier to migrate into areas previously
unexplored by their countrymen, because many have tourist visas and can afford
air travel.

Not counting migrant workers, there were 6.7 million Mexican-born people living
in the United States in 1996, according to Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer at
the Urban Institute in Washington, a nonprofit research organization. The number
of workers who travel seasonally between Mexican homes and American work sites
can be only roughly estimated, he said, but it may be as large as two million.
Mexicans are now America's largest immigrant group by far, he added,
constituting 28 percent of the foreign-born population, up from 7 percent in
1970.

"There's an identifiable presence of Mexicans in all kinds of states where
there's never been any before," Mr. Passel said recently at a Mexican
Government-sponsored conference on Mexican migration. "This has really exploded
since the 1990 census."

Ever since Mexican migration to the United States became institutionalized
during World War II, when a Government-sponsored program brought thousands of
farm workers north, California has been Mexicans' main destination.

But since California's economy plunged into recession and anti-immigrant fervor
spread, many Mexicans have gone elsewhere, said Rudolfo Figueroa, a diplomat who
directs a Mexican Government program to provide health, education and other
services to Mexicans in the United States.

The new patterns are reflected in the increasing number of Mexican Government
offices in the United States. They now total 54, many in unexpected places like
Charlotte, N.C., and Buffalo. Since 1991, four consulates have been opened, in
Orlando; Portland, Ore.; Santa Ana, Calif., and Douglas, Ariz.

"Many Mexicans who worked in California have gone east and north," Mr. Figueroa
said, "provoking the growth of new Mexican communities in the center of the
country and on the eastern seaboard. And that's obligated us to expand into
areas that we didn't work before."

A consular office has also opened in Honolulu to serve the estimated 15,000
Mexicans now working in Hawaii. One is Mr. Ayala, 31, who said in a telephone
interview from Maui that after migrating between his hometown of Ocotlan and
Hawaii for six years, he had obtained American residency documents.

But he is not sure where he will settle. "That depends on whether I get married
in Mexico or Hawaii," he said, adding that he had been laid off by a sugar
company and was unemployed.

Anchorage has a new consular office as well. Some 20,000 Mexicans have settled
in Alaskan cities including Juneau and Fairbanks, where most work in hotels and
restaurants. There is also a contingent on Kodiak Island, where many clean fish
in the 11 canneries, said Hugo Abel Castro, the Mexican consul in Seattle, who
supervises the Anchorage office.

Among the Mexicans traveling to Alaska to work have been many unemployed
teachers, lawyers and other professionals. One was Dr. D'Giestecke, who
concluded after reading help-wanted advertisements placed by American fishing
companies in a Mexican magazine in 1995 that a trip to Alaska might help him pay
off his debts.

There were five American crew members on the Kodiak Island fishing vessel where
he found work. The three others were Mexican: one experienced seaman, an
agronomist and an accountant. The latter two had lost their jobs in Mexico.

After cleaning cod on the open sea for two months, Dr. D'Giestecke returned home
with about $3,000 in savings, which helped him reduce his debts, he said. Will
he go back?

"If I need money I will," he said. "I have friends in Alaska now."

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexican migrants are being dispersed ever farther. Angel
Castillo, harvesting pineapples in Maui, is one of 15,000 Mexican workers in
Hawaii. (Cory Lum for The New York Times)

Map of Mexico showing location of Guadalajara.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 2, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Metro News Briefs: NEW YORK;
Bill Seeks to Protect Immigrant Workers

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 156 words

DATELINE: ALBANY


The State Legislature approved a bill yesterday that would strengthen penalties
against employers who withhold pay from their employees, a measure intended to
discourage the exploitation of immigrant workers.

The measure passed 57 to 0 in the Senate and 149 to 0 in the Assembly. It will
be sent to Gov. George E. Pataki this week. Aides to Mr. Pataki declined to
comment on the bill.

The bill would allow the State Department of Labor to assess employers a fine
twice the amount of the back wages owed. It would make repeat offenses a felony,
punishable by fines of between $500 and $20,000 and prison sentences of between
one and four years. The legislation would apply to employers who withhold
several weeks' wages or who fail to pay the minimum wage or overtime.

In cases in which employers have not kept payment records, the bill would place
responsibility on the employers to prove that they have paid their workers.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 13, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

New Jersey Daily Briefing;
Immigration Center Reopens

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


Eighteen months after an uprising by detainees closed a Federal immigration
detention center, the unit reopened on Saturday, The Associated Press reported.
The 300-bed center, where undocumented immigrants and those requesting political
asylum are held while awaiting hearings, is now run for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service by Corrections Corporation of America, based in
Nashville.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 21, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Center Reopens After Uprising

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 67 words


Eighteen months after an uprising at a privately run Federal detention center
for immigrants in Elizabeth, N.J., the center has reopened under new management,
with promises of a faster hearing process for those seeking asylum. The revamped
center underwent a host of changes to transform it from what one lawmaker called
"the worst immigration detention center in the nation."

Article, page B5.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Somali Immigrant Had Won Asylum Before Detention

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 852 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH, N.J., Feb. 4


Megan Abdullah Jama, who was released this week after spending almost a month in
the immigration detention center here, concedes that he was treated well,
allowed to practice his faith and had relatively easy access to his lawyer.

His big complaint: he never should have been detained in the first place.

Mr. Jama, a 28-year-old Somali, was granted political asylum nearly two years
ago, but the Government did not notify him of that fact until last month. By
then, he had left the country to attend his mother's funeral in Kenya, lost his
papers and sought to return to the United States with forged documents.

Mr. Jama was the first person to be placed in the detention center since it
reopened earlier this year. His 24 days in the center were mercifully short,
considering that detainees once languished there for up to three years. And, by
all accounts, it was under much better conditions than those that caused
detainees to protest against the previous management a year and a half ago,
leading to the center's closing.

But all of that provided little solace for Mr. Jama, whose family lives in
Seattle, where he works as a bilingual teacher's aide in the public schools.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service decided to grant Mr. Jama asylum just
weeks after he first sought it in the agency's San Francisco office in March
1995. That was before Mr. Jama took up residence with his wife and other
relatives in Seattle in a tiny community of Somali refugees.

It was also long before he sought I.N.S.-approved travel documents to return to
East Africa last October for the funeral of his mother.

But official word that he had been granted asylum only went out from the
immigration service on Jan. 7, 1997. That was just three days before Mr. Jama,
unaware of any of this, made a desperate attempt to re-enter the United States
with forged papers. His approved travel documents had been stolen or lost at
some point and he had been stranded for a month and a half in Copenhagen, the
midpoint of his return trip. There, he had unsuccessfully sought help from
suspicious American Embassy personnel, whom he is convinced did little or
nothing to help him.

"I went there every day," he said. "They asked me if I sold my travel papers and
I said, 'No, why would I do that.' I don't think they believed me."

A State Department spokesman would not comment on what happened to Mr. Jama at
the embassy in Copenhagen.

As Mr. Jama stood in the parking lot of a Jersey City motel this week awaiting a
ride to Kennedy International Airport and a flight home to Seattle, he spoke
with bitterness about the ordeal of recent months and defended his efforts to
return to the United States with forged documents. With a trusting innocence, he
had believed that all would be all right if he could just get back on American
soil.

When immigration service officers at Newark International Airport confronted him
with the fraudulent documents when he arrived on Jan. 10, he said he cheerfully
conceded the point and showed them his Seattle driver's license to let them know
who he really was.

Andrea Quarantillo, the director of the immigation service's Newark office,
which is in charge of the Elizabeth detention center, said Mr. Jama was paroled
from the center based largely on a finding that there was "a credible fear" that
his life would be in danger if he was forced to return to Somalia. She said that
his previous status and the apparent confusion about his notification had no
bearing on the parole decision and that he still faced an eventual exclusion
hearing on the charge of entering the country with fraudulent documents.

She pointed to improvements in the center, which is now run by the Corrections
Corporation of America, that have resulted in ready access to a hearing and
lawyers.

She said, and Mr. Jama agreed, that the center was sensitive to his dietary and
religious fasting requirements during Ramadan, the month that is Islam's holiest
period, and that harsh treatment by guards was swiftly addressed and reversed by
immigration service personnel. This contrasted with practices under the former
operator, Esmor Correctional Services Inc., as determined by an immigration
service investigation after the 1995 protest.

Megan Ballard, Mr. Jama's Seattle-based lawyer, said the 24-day detention was
still extreme, given that for some time he was the only detainee there. Many of
the changes to improve communication with lawyers did not work as expected, she
said, adding: "This is a new state-of-the-art facility with new full-time staff
that had nothing to do but focus on my client, and it still took that long. If
it isn't working for him, then my concern is whether it will ever work."

Russ Bergeron, an immigration service spokesman in Washington, said the agency's
computers did indicate that Mr. Jama had been approved for political asylum on
March 30, 1995. Mr. Bergeron, however, conceded that an error by the agency had
led to Mr. Jama's not being notified until this January.

But he, too, said Mr. Jama's resorting to forged documents was a separate issue.


LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Megan Abdullah Jama, a Somalian, in Jersey City this week.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 25, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

EARNING IT;
Japan's Lifetime Jobs: Foreigners Qualify, Too

BYLINE: By MIKI TANIKAWA

SECTION: Section 3;  Page 11;  Column 3;  Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

DATELINE: TOKYO


IN a quiet change of culture, more Japanese companies have been extending to
their foreign workers the special status of lifetime employment, which for the
most part had been the exclusive right of Japanese-born employees for at least
30 years.

Media companies like NHK and Yomiuri Shimbun and giant corporations, including
Mitsubishi, Nissho Iwai and Mitsui, are all adding foreigners to their permanent
ranks.

"It's nice to know that I have my job next year and the year after that," said
Joshua Adelstein, 27, an American reporter at Yomiuri Shimbun, Japan's
largest-circulation newspaper. "Job security provides an inner peace that many
hours of meditation can't compete with."

Employment experts say Japanese companies have begun to embrace foreign workers
as the companies increase their operations overseas and realize they need the
skills and perspective of the foreigners to compete better around the world.
Last year, the number of foreigners holding working visas was about 88,000, up
from 30,000 in 1986, the Justice Ministry said.

"As firms shift their operations overseas more, realization spread that they
must secure and deploy talents regardless of the citizenship," said Takanori
Matsuura, a professor who specializes in corporate recruitment at Tama
University.

In the 1970's, the Sony Corporation was a pioneer in having foreigners become
lifetime employees. One of the first to obtain the status, an American, retired
from Sony last year.

"We draw 80 percent of our revenue from our operations abroad, so it was a
natural direction for us to follow," said Kazushi Anbe, manager of the overseas
human resources division at Sony.

Yasuhiko Fujiki, director of recruitment at the Orix Corporation, a leasing
company, has found many good international job candidates at Japanese
universities. Last year, for the first time, the company offered lifetime
positions to six foreign workers.

The new corporate attitudes also reflect an increasing mobility in Japan's work
force. Young workers, for example, have been willing to walk away from their
first jobs to seek better opportunities.

And while recent layoffs, during an economic downturn, have shown that many jobs
are no longer guaranteed, winning lifetime status is still significant, experts
said, because it can give foreigners increased opportunities for promotions.

Of course, not all foreign workers want to spend their lives with one company.

Irene Kuge, 27, a Japanese-American, joined Toyota Motor after graduating from
UCLA in 1992. Two years later, Toyota made it clear she had a lifetime job.

Although Ms. Kuge said she liked the security, she and many foreign co-workers
do not know if they will remain with the company. "It's not a huge
consideration," she said, "because most of us don't know if we want to stay for
life, and if we do, what will our opportunities in the company be?"

Sakie Fukushima, a partner at Korn/ Ferry International Japan, an executive
search firm, expects the opportunities for foreign employees to keep improving,
provided that Japanese attitudes toward the workers continue to change. She said
she would not be surprised someday to see, for example, "a German national
heading Mitsubishi Corporation."

"The question is: Is that going to happen 10 years, 20 years or 30 years from
now?" she said. "I would like to think that manpower is an international
resource that transcends national borders."

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Irene Kuge joined Toyota after graduating from UCLA in 1992 and
now has a lifetime job with the company in Japan. She recently visited the
company's New York office. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 24, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

For Kuwaitis, Self-Reliance Proves to Be an Elusive Goal

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words

DATELINE: KUWAIT, Sept. 23


Exultant but also bitter after the Persian Gulf war, Kuwait sought to settle
scores, deporting tens of thousands of foreign workers whose leaders had backed
Iraq in the conflict. The new Kuwait, its leaders declared, should be run by the
Kuwaitis.

But today Egyptians, Pakistanis, Filipinos and others have filled the void that
the foreign workers, mainly Palestinians, left behind, and Kuwaitis are as much
a minority in their own land as ever before.

And as the United States vows anew to defend this country, with a total
population of two million and vast oil reserves, many Kuwaitis now say they feel
no qualms about relying on others.

"The Kuwaiti, he does not like to work," Falah al-Rashidi, a 23-year-old Kuwaiti
assigned to the National Guard. "The foreigners have experience that we lack,
and they work for lower salaries. This does not mean that the Kuwaiti does not
contribute. But this way, the Kuwaiti can stay safe and rested."

More than six years after Iraq invaded Kuwait in August 1990, nearly every sign
of the seven-month occupation that followed has been erased.

Luxury American cars hum along modern highways. Futuristic architecture adorns
the downtown skyline.  And voters like Mr. Rashidi are flocking to nightly
political gatherings as they prepare to elect a new Parliament, a ritual still
unknown to Kuwait's Persian Gulf neighbors.

Despite the promise let loose by liberation, Kuwait -- whose own citizens pay no
taxes, account for just one-sixth of the work force and are guaranteed
high-paying jobs in Government ministries -- has yet to set a clear course for
the future.

And the most visible indicator -- a demand by Parliament last month that young
men and women be segregated at the Government-financed Kuwait University within
the next five years -- is regarded by liberals and intellectuals as particularly
troubling. On a campus where clingy T-shirts have become almost as common on
young women as more modest Islamic dress, it is regarded as a move away from the
postwar spirit that has left Kuwait relatively tolerant of Western ways.

"Culturally, it is a step backward," said Moudi Bou-Resli, a professor of
zoology at the university, who herself attended mixed classes at the university
soon after it was founded in 1967.

Parliament, disbanded in 1986 and restored in 1992 only under American pressure,
has proven aggressive in investigating allegations of corruption in the
Government, which answers to the Emir, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah. His family
has wielded supreme power in Kuwait for 200 years.

The Emir and his family retain the final decision on most matters, however, and
Parliament has veered away from central issues, including democracy, the economy
and national defense.

"All their ideas are still in the drawers," said Abdullah al-Rashidi, a
46-year-old Kuwaiti who sported a thick gold and platinum bracelet under his
cream-colored full-length gown and holds a sinecure in a ministry he would not
identify. "Maybe they're afraid that if they decide anything, they won't have
anything new to talk about."

This reluctance has troubled not only voters and political rivals, who have
filled newspaper columns with denunciations of a do-nothing legislators, but
also many outsiders, who assert that Kuwait has done too little to address human
and economic inequities.

"Significant problems remain," the State Department said in its most recent
human rights report on Kuwait, which pointed out that women still do not have
the right to vote and that the Government continues to be hostile to more than
100,000 stateless people known as the "bidoon."

Under Kuwait's restrictive electoral laws, only 107,000 among the country's
720,000 citizens -- all of them men able to prove Kuwaiti ancestry back at least
one generation -- will be eligible to vote on Oct. 7.

In 1992, most of the members of what was then the new Parliament said they
favored extending the vote to women. But that movement has languished,
complicated by debates over whether women should also be permitted to hold
office and by the fears of some political moderates that Kuwaiti women might
emerge as a particularly conservative political force.

Kuwait has also managed to reduce the number of bidoon (the word means
"without") to about 117,000 from a prewar level of 220,000. Most are of Iranian
or Iraqi origin, and some have lived in Kuwait for generations. But it has shown
no hint of granting citizenship except to a tiny minority, and it has purged the
Kuwaiti military of nearly all the bidoon within its ranks.

But the Government continues to shower benefits on its own citizens, who benefit
from cradle-to-grave medical care, free education and subsidies on electricity
and water so generous that both the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund have registered complaints.

Every Kuwaiti is also assured of a job, and of those who work, 93 percent are
Government employees, earning wages far higher than those in the private sector.
By law, Kuwaitis receive a minimum wage more than double that paid to
foreigners, and their workday ends by 2 P.M., creating an early-afternoon rush
hour as parents hurry to collect their children from school.

"A lot of people still think that all of this is their due -- that it's their
share of the oil revenue," a Western diplomat said.

For now, with Kuwait pumping two million barrels of oil a day -- its prewar
level -- and oil prices higher than predicted, such generosity may be
sustainable. Having dipped deeply into its cash reserves, cutting them from $100
billion to $35 billion, and borrowed another $5.5 billion to cover the costs of
the gulf war and reconstruction, Kuwait has already weathered extraordinary
burdens.

And since the gulf war Kuwait, with a per capita income of about $23,000 and an
estimated 10 percent of the world's oil reserves, has ended its once-generous
aid to the Palestinians and Jordan.

But of the money that Kuwait still spends, fully half is devoted to Government
salaries alone, Western diplomats said, while another third that is set aside
for defense is used largely to buy advanced weapons for the Kuwaiti Army, still
just 19,000-strong, even smaller than it was before the gulf war. In the fiscal
squeeze that has resulted, Kuwait has run a budget deficit for each of the last
five years.

At the same time, Kuwait's one-dimensional economy -- oil accounts for 90
percent of all revenue -- and its high rate of population growth have left
planners nervous.

With the support of the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, many
officials argue that Kuwait must either cut benefits to its citizens, as Saudi
Arabia did two years ago in the face of greater financial strains, or sharply
reduce the number of foreign workers, who drain capital from the economy.

But even the much-touted postwar effort to shift jobs to Kuwaitis never got far
off the ground. Kuwait's population, about 2.1 million before the war, plunged
as Kuwaitis and foreigners alike fled Iraqi occupation. It fell to just 1.3
million by 1992, but even then Kuwaitis never held much more than one-fifth of
the jobs.

The ouster of most Palestinians, Jordanians and Yemenis emptied Kuwait of some
of its most numerous and best-educated groups of foreign workers. But as
Egyptians, Pakistanis, Indians and others flooded here to take over
neighborhoods and jobs as teachers, engineers, waiters, drivers and
ditch-diggers, the population soared, and in 1993 it exceeded the 1.5 million
figure the Government set as its postwar target.

Today, Kuwait's population stands at 2 million, 1.3 million of whom are
non-Kuwaitis, according to the most recent Government statistics. Of a total
labor force of 1.1 million, only 176,000 are Kuwaiti citizens.

"They treat us like servants," said Lal Hettige, a 33-year-old Sri Lankan
accountant employed by a car distributor who is one of 16,000 residents of
Bachelor City, a compound of cement-block units 12 miles north of the capital
where foreign workers not permitted to bring their families to Kuwait usually
sleep three to a room and work six days a week.

"No Kuwaiti would put up with what we put up with," said Mr. Hettige, a
university graduate whose wife and child remain in Sri Lanka and whose salary of
about $650 a month is as much as eight times what many other residents of the
compound earn. "But the money is much better than anything at home."

At the nightly outdoor gatherings, known as diwaniyas, that are a staple of
election campaigning here, political talk flows fast and furious, but it often
focuses more on local issues like highways and sewers than the path ahead for
Kuwait.

Near the end of one such discussion the other evening at a thickly carpeted
headquarters that, like scores across the capital, was lighted with long strands
of bulbs as if for a carnival, a Kuwaiti man fixed an American reporter and his
Palestinian interpreter with a smile and stated what he said was the inevitable.

"The Palestinians and Egyptians teach us and the Americans defend us," said the
Kuwaiti, who insisted on anonymity. "That's the way it's been, and that's
basically the way it will always be."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Political talk fills the air in Kuwait as elections approach.
Kuwaiti men listened to speeches at a rally Sunday. (Stephanie McGehee for The
New York Times)(pg. A3)

Graph: "BY THE NUMBERS: A New Welcome Mat" After the Persian-Gulf war, Kuwait
began to deport many foreign workers. Since then, the foreign-born population
and labor force are returning to pre-war levels. Graph shows Kuwaiti population
and labor force from 1989 to 1996. (Source: Public Authority for Civil
Information, Government of Kuwait)(pg. A3)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 10, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Ship Subsidies Enhance Global Status

SECTION: Section A;  Page 32;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words


To the Editor:

In your Oct. 1 editorial against the subsidizing of the American merchant marine
fleet, you suggest we rely on ships owned by the Government or hire foreign
ships to do the job. And you point to the Persian Gulf war as an example of how
we have no use for a merchant marine.

The $1 billion authorized over the next decade to subsidize the fleet is a lot.
But it is critical for our national defense. An adequate fleet is necessary, and
the American merchant marine was the key source of sealift to support our forces
in the gulf war.

You state that the fleet "is outperformed commercially by more efficient
foreign-flag vessels." This works fine so long as there is no hostility where we
want to send our goods. Can we always rely on other nations and their citizens
to support America?

EZRA SCHNEIER
President, Marine Index Bureau Inc.
Ewing, N.J., Oct. 9, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Piety, but No Help, On Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By Pete Wilson;   Pete Wilson, a Republican, is Governor of California.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif.


When Republicans regained control of Congress two years ago, few promises from
the new majority struck a deeper chord with Americans than the one to free
communities from unfair and unfinanced mandates imposed by Washington. Congress
passed a bill prohibiting the practice, and, with great flourish, President
Clinton signed it into law.

Why, then, are a small but crucial number of Republican Senators now abandoning
that principle -- and sticking taxpayers in California and several other states
with one of the largest unfunded Federal mandates? Why are these Republican
Senators, having so recently and righteously exalted states' rights, now so
cavalierly forsaking them?

Specifically, why are they opposing an amendment to the House version of the
immigration reform bill, sponsored by Representative Elton Gallegly, a
California Republican, that would relieve the unfunded Federal mandate that
forces states to pay for the education of illegal immigrants?

Last week, two Senators, Phil Gramm and Kay Bailey Hutchison, both of Texas,
sent a letter to Senator Orrin Hatch, chairman of the Judiciary Committee,
urging him to remove the Gallegly amendment from the final immigration bill.

"It is untenable to deny children an education," the Senators wrote. "Permitting
any child to grow up in the United States idle and illiterate is unacceptable
national policy."

Forgive my impatience, but that pious pronouncement does not deal with the
crises created by Federal neglect. Of course every child deserves an education.
But the government that bears the responsibility is the government of the
country from which the illegal immigrants come, or the Federal Government, whose
willful failure to enforce its own laws has created this mess.

If Senators Gramm and Hutchison feel that Texas should educate illegal
immigrants, the Gallegly amendment allows the state to do so. Nothing in the
amendment mandates Texas to assume that burden, or forbids it to do so. I do not
presume to tell Texas what its policy should be, and Texas Senators should not
dictate policy to California.

If Congress is going to violate or ignore the 10th Amendment, which protects
states' rights, let it stand up and do so openly. Indeed, a lack of clear
expression of Congressional intent was crucial to a 1982 Supreme Court decision,
in Plyler v. Doe, that said states could not deny public education to illegal
immigrants, in part because Congress had failed to develop explicit Federal
policy on the issue.

If Congress believes that the Supreme Court's Plyler decision is correct, it
should legislate the mandate and tell the states that they must educate all
comers, legal and illegal. Then, having expressly mandated that duty, Congress
must appropriate the money to reimburse the states for the cost of educating
illegal immigrants -- just as it has started doing for the incarceration of
illegals.

Now if this very serious suggestion should occasion snickers in the halls of
Congress, then the only fair and responsible alternative is for Congress to pass
the Gallegly amendment.

The Gramm-Hutchison letter to Senator Hatch declares, "It is untenable to deny
children an education." By that, I assume that the Senators find it completely
acceptable to degrade significantly the quality of education provided to the
children of legal residents.

Every dollar we are forced to spend educating an illegal immigrant takes one
dollar away from what we can spend on the education of our legal residents.
California suffers from some of the nation's most overcrowded classrooms. With
the $1.8 billion California now spends on educating some 355,000 illegal
immigrants, we could instead hire 51,000 new teachers or construct 2,340 new
classrooms or install nearly one million new computers in our schools.

Perhaps the Texas Senators simply do not understand illegal immigration's
crushing burden on California's schools. Texas spends less than a quarter of
what California spends on this mandate. In fact, schools in the Los Angeles area
alone are forced to spend more on this mandate than the entire state of Texas
does. In Los Angeles, the number of illegal immigrants is nearly double the
entire population of the nation's capital.

California taxpayers cannot afford to provide a free education for everyone who
sneaks across our borders. By rewarding illegal immigrants for violating our
borders, the Federal Government actually encourages unlawful behavior. Even
Henry Cisneros, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, concedes that
free public services are "a magnetic lure" to illegal aliens.

Opponents of the Gallegly amendment argue that children will be out on the mean
streets instead of in school. In reality, this argument assumes that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service will fail to do its job.

The time has come for honesty and action. It is time for Congress to end the
"magnetic lure," to end the unfunded mandates, which are unfair and costly to
state taxpayers and to the children of legal residents.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 11, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Punish Employers, Not Children

BYLINE: By George J. Borjas;   George J. Borjas is a professor of public policy
at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass.


Four million illegal aliens reside in the United States, and their number grows
by 300,000 every year. This is on top of the three million granted amnesty in
the late 1980's.

The costs of illegal immigration in both economic and social disarray are high.
That is why California voters backed Proposition 187, which denies many social
benefits to illegal aliens -- including public education.

Now Congress has joined the fray. The House recently passed the Gallegly
amendment, which would give states the right to bar illegal aliens from public
schools; the measure faces a tougher time in the Senate.

Such a ban on schooling probably would prompt some people to think twice before
crossing the border illegally. After all, we know that illegal immigration from
Mexico responds to the price of tomatoes in the United States: there are more
Border Patrol apprehensions when the price is high and farms pay more to harvest
the crops. If aliens respond to the price of tomatoes, they may well respond to
the cut in education benefits.

Still, is this an effective way of stopping the illegal flow? Imagine the
emotional outrage when the evening news begins with a scene of two burly Border
Patrol officers preventing a sobbing 7-year-old from entering a public school.
This image alone, and the shameful history it evokes, suggests that this policy
is not a serious attempt to curtail the illegal alien flow, for it is unlikely
ever to be enforced.

The policy also fails to address the real underpinning of the illegal
immigration problem: the wage gap between the United States and Mexico -- the
largest between any two contiguous countries. The incentives for Mexicans to
migrate are enormous. And American employers benefit from the entry of illegal
aliens; a vast pool of workers keeps wages down.

So both illegal aliens and their employers want to see the tide continue. Few
are penalized for breaking the law. When an illegal alien is caught, the Border
Patrol sends the person back across the border; typically, the migrant tries
again. Once people make it to the United States, they can easily buy fake
documents and be hired by an employer who will do no more than give the papers a
cursory inspection.

Illegal aliens go to emergency rooms, send their children to public schools,
apply for welfare, get driver's licenses. They have frequent contact with
government agencies. Yet nobody is held accountable for this large-scale
law-breaking.

We need deterrence, but barring illegal aliens from our public schools is not an
effective way of stopping illegal immigration. For one thing, it would have no
effect on the migration of single people and childless couples. In addition,
many children who live in undocumented households were born in the United States
and are American citizens courtesy of the 14th Amendment, so they are
automatically entitled to public education.

We could deter many more illegal aliens if we imposed substantial penalties on
the employers who hire them. These companies -- agricultural enterprises,
sweatshops -- get the bulk of the gains from illegal immigration but bear few of
the costs.

What would happen to the demand for undocumented workers if we billed the owners
of the fields where the migrants toil, and the families who hire illegal
domestic help, for the expenses incurred by public schools and Medicaid?

Finally, any serious proposal must offer a way of establishing who is an illegal
alien. Regardless of where we choose to catch them -- the school or the
workplace -- we need to be able to tell them apart from legal immigrants.

We have yet to grapple with this troublesome detail, which raises the specter of
a national identification system. But we cannot tackle the problem of illegal
immigration as long as we skirt this issue.

We do need to discourage illegal aliens from entering the country, and encourage
those already here to leave. Barring them from public schools, however, is more
symbol than substance.

The fact that it has become the centerpiece of the current debate implies that
Congress is not yet serious about stopping the tide of illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Who's a Nincompoop on Illegal Immigration?

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 187 words


To the Editor:

Gov. Pete Wilson is wrong to suggest (Op-Ed, July 11) that the answer to the
nation's immigration crisis is for each state to start setting its own policies
regarding the treatment of illegal immigrants.

The legislation in question is a national solution to the national problem of
illegal immigration. The House and Senate have passed bills that will add 5,600
new border patrol and immigration invesigators; extend from 3 years to 10 the
ban on legal re-entry for illegals caught; require the Federal Government to
reimburse states and local communities for the emergency medical assistance they
provide to certain illegals; increase the penalties on alien smugglers, and
streamline the deportation process.

The one major area of disagreement is the education of children of illegal
immigrants. If this bill fails, we would lose our only chance for immigration
reform this year. It's time to stop talking constitutional theory and start
fulfilling our responsibility to keep the integrity of this nation's borders.

KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON
U.S. Senator from Texas
Washington, July 11, 1996

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Who's a Nincompoop on Illegal Immigration?

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 291 words


To the Editor:

My dear friend Gov. Pete Wilson of California administered a 19-inch lecture
(Op-Ed, July 11), explaining to me how only a constitutional nincompoop could be
in favor of educating children of illegal immigrants.

The Governor's opinion rests squarely on the 10th Amendment's guarantee of
states' rights. But he should keep reading until he finishes the 14th Amendment,
too, where the Constitution says that a state has no right to "deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws." And if the
Constitution doesn't offer enough reason for Governor Wilson to educate these
children, common sense does.

Governor Wilson actually brushed up against the real issue when he wrote about
the Federal Government's willful failure to stop the flow of illegal immigrants
into our states.

Last year, I wrote the appropriations bill that launched a doubling of the size
of the United States Border Patrol. Before that, there were more police officers
guarding Washington than patrol agents on the entire border of the United
States.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has failed to do its job of barring
illegal entry, deporting lawbreakers and enforcing employer sanctions because of
a lack of resources in the field and an absence of will in Washington. As
Governor Wilson surely knows, states routinely refuse to share information that
would help the Border Patrol locate and deport illegal immigrants.

The Federal Government and the states should work together to stop illegal
immigration, to detain and deport those who break our laws. But we cannot use
innocent children as scapegoats for our lack of leadership and will.

PHIL GRAMM
U.S. Senator from Texas
Washington, July 11, 1996

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 12, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani to Sue Over Provision On Welfare

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1064 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11


Calling it "inhumane and indecent," Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said today that he
would sue the Federal Government to block a previously overlooked provision of
the new welfare law that allows city employees to turn in illegal immigrants who
seek services like police protection, hospital care and public education.

Speaking to students at the Georgetown University Law School here, the Mayor
said the one-sentence provision, buried among the hundreds of pages of the new
law, violated three amendments to the United States Constitution and would
"create chaos in New York City."

He also said the provision was deliberately designed to overturn an executive
order signed by Mayor Edward I. Koch in 1985 and reaffirmed by Mayor David N.
Dinkins and then Mr. Giuliani. The order prohibited city employees, including
police officers and teachers, from giving information on an illegal immigrant to
the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service unless the immigrant had been
charged with a crime.

But under the welfare law that President Clinton signed last month, no city or
state employee can be prohibited from giving information to the agency about the
status of an immigrant.

The city's estimated 400,000 illegal immigrants may now be afraid to send their
children to public schools, fearing that teachers would report them to the
Federal Government, the Mayor said. They also may be afraid to report crimes or
seek treatment for contagious diseases in city hospitals, he said.

"This really constitutes inhumane and indecent treatment," Mr. Giuliani said.
"Think of the situation in which someone is illegal and undocumented and is
being subjected to domestic violence, which is an ongoing situation. A person
like that would have to make a choice between reporting that to the police, and
run the risk that the police would report you to the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, or you stay in the situation in which you're being
beaten."

Similar provisions had been proposed in various education and crime bills being
considered by Congress in previous years, but strenuous lobbying by the city
succeeded in having the provisions killed.

The Mayor said that no one in his administration knew the provision existed
until last week, when he and lawyers for the city discovered it while reading
through the entire bill.

Though other states and cities have similar regulations prohibiting such
cooperation with immigration agents, the Mayor said there was no doubt in his
mind that the provision was targeted at New York City. He noted that some
lawmakers in Congress have often criticized the city's executive order and have
tried to overturn it.

Mr. Giuliani supports most of the major provisions in the new welfare law,
including work requirements and time limits for recipients. But he has opposed
the law as a whole, saying it does not supply the city with enough money to
implement the new changes, and because it eliminates many forms of assistance
for some legal immigrants.

His remarks today, however, were focused on the one provision he said was
designed to overturn Executive Order 124, a provision he said the city would
refuse to implement. Cristyne F. Lategano, his director of communications, said
he decided to accept a longstanding invitation to discuss constitutional law
after learning about the provision.

Indeed, the Mayor, who enjoys being pedagogical on legal matters, clearly liked
explaining to the students the constitutional basis for the city's opposition to
the provision, doing so as if he were a law professor.

The provision, he said, denies legal immigrants the due process of law afforded
by the Fifth Amendment, because people who are afraid to call the police are
effectively denied police protection. He said it also violates the 14th
Amendment's guarantee of equal protection under the law, and usurps the city's
police power granted under the 10th Amendment, which gives states those powers
not expressly delegated to the Federal Government.

"We will not implement this law," he said. "What we will do instead is challenge
it in court as a violation of the 10th Amendment, a violation of due process,
and between now and the time we file our grievance, any other violation we can
figure out."

Lawyers for the city plan to file suit within the next two or three weeks, he
said.

Last year, the Republican Mayor broke with the conservative wing of his party in
opposing an immigration bill -- proposed but never passed in the Congress --
that would have had a similar effect as the provision in the welfare bill. That
measure would have required public hospitals and schools to report illegal
immigrants, a move Mr. Giuliani said last August would have "catastrophic social
effects" on the city. Today, Republicans in the House moved ahead on the bill,
sending a compromise version to a Senate-House conference committee, which is
expected to consider the bill next week.
 The Mayor argued today that the welfare law provision would have the same
effect as requiring teachers to report illegal immigrants, because the
immigrants would not know which of the city's 200,000 employees might decide to
report them.

"The illegal and undocumented parent, seeking to put their child in public
school," Mr. Giuliani said, "would not know whether the superintendent or the
principal or the administrator of that school was going to ask a question: 'Are
you a citizen? Are you a legal resident alien, or are you illegal?' So it would
have precisely the impact the order was intended to avoid."

The Mayor said that there appeared to be a growing anti-immigrant sentiment
around the nation, noting that California voters passed a measure last year
denying many public benefits to illegal immigrants.  But he said he hoped that
New York, with its long tradition of immigration, would be understanding of his
call for tolerance and his opposition to the welfare bill's provision.

"I hope it won't be political suicide," he said.

What the New Welfare Law Says

Sec. 434 (c) Paragraph 2

"Notwithstanding any other provision of Federal, State, or local law, no State
or local government entity may be prohibited, or in any way restricted, from
sending to or receiving from the Immigration and Naturalization Service
information regarding the immigration status, lawful or unlawful, of an alien in
the United States."

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that the new welfare
law violates the Constitution and would "create chaos in New York City."
(Stephen D. Crowley/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 13, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Dole's Immigration Stance Splits G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 695 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12


A bill that would crack down on illegal immigration has exposed deep divisions
among House and Senate Republicans, many of whom calculate that the best course
for them might not serve the best interests of Bob Dole's struggling
Presidential campaign.

Many Republican lawmakers, particularly those facing close races in states with
large number of illegal immigrants, are eager to pass the bill, which toughens
enforcement on the border and in the workplace. They want to show constituents
that Congress is tackling the issue.

But Mr. Dole is loath to hand President Clinton an opportunity to claim credit
for a politically popular bill.

"The Dole campaign doesn't want to have Clinton having more bills to sign," said
Michele Davis, a senior aide to Representative Dick Armey, a Texas Republican
who is the House majority leader.

Mr. Dole sent his campaign manager to Capitol Hill today to tell Republicans to
insist that the bill include a provision almost certain to doom it in the
Senate. The provision, included in the House version of the bill but not in the
Senate's, would allow states to deny a public education to children who are
illegal immigrants.

Mr. Dole and Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia strongly support the provision,
but Democrats do not, and Senate Democrats have vowed to filibuster any bill
that contains it. President Clinton has indicated that he wants to sign the
immigration bill, but not if it includes the education provision.

Republicans for weeks have been trying to decide whether it is better to have a
bill without the education provision or stick to their guns and blame the
Democrats for blocking the overall legislation.

This morning, the two main authors of the Republican immigration bill, Senator
Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming and Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, met with the
manager of Mr. Dole's campaign, Scott Reed, to plead for dropping the education
provision to win credit for passing the bill. One official familiar with the
discussions said the two legislators even offered to amend the bill to provide
funds to reimburse some of California's education costs if Mr. Dole would
endorse dropping the offending provision.

Mr. Reed did not budge, Congressional officials said. "They don't want an
illegal immigration bill," Mr. Simpson said in an interview, arguing that his
longtime friend and former Senate majority leader, Mr. Dole, had been poorly
served by the advice of his top campaign aides.

When the debate on immigration began months ago, the Republicans were united --
but no longer.

Mr. Gingrich is worried that several Republicans in Southern California who are
facing tight contests need an immigration bill that contains the education
provision to demonstrate concern for their state's budget problems. But Mr.
Armey recently canvassed six or seven of these Republicans and, to his surprise,
Ms. Davis said, found that roughly half now believe it is better to have a bill
in hand than a dicey political issue to wage against Democratic opponents.

In the Senate, Trent Lott, a Mississippi Republican who is majority leader, does
not feel strongly either way about the education provision, but would like to
put the immigration bill in his legislative win column before Congress adjourns
later this month.

The immigration bill would double the number of Border Patrol officers, increase
workplace inspections and restrict public benefits to legal aliens. But much of
this is already financed or included in the recently passed welfare bill, so the
fight has been largely symbolic for Mr. Dole and the Republicans.

House and Senate negotiators are set to meet next Tuesday to discuss the
immigration bill. The outcome of their report is preordained. House and Senate
Republicans have already completed the process, which is usually bipartisan,
without the Democrats' help. House leaders now plan to bring the conference
report to a floor vote next Thursday.

"A likely outcome will be no bill and the attempt to blame Clinton and the
Democrats will have backfired badly," said Frank Sharry, the executive director
of the National Immigration Forum, a pro-immigration group in Washington.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 18, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Seems Ready to Drop Political Fight

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;   Page 6;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 990 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


House and Senate Republican leaders today appeared to be on the brink of
dropping a controversial provision that has been the major stumbling block for a
bill cracking down on illegal immigrants.

The move would be a stinging political blow to Bob Dole, who has backed the
provision, which would allow states to deny public schooling to children who are
illegal immigrants. Mr. Dole's campaign manager, Scott Reed, told Republicans in
Congress last week that it would be better to have no immigration bill at all
than for Congress to pass legislation that President Clinton could claim as his
own. Mr. Clinton has threatened to veto any bill that included the education
provision.

But that strategy seems to be backfiring as many Republicans -- particularly
those in districts where there are many illegal immigrants -- are now
calculating that the best course for them is to approve a bill that tackles a
difficult issue instead of helping to bail out Mr. Dole's flagging campaign.
Aside from the education provision, the immigration bill has broad bipartisan
support.

Symptoms of trouble for the education provision broke out like hives today. A
meeting of House and Senate negotiators to approve the final immigration bill,
including the education provision, was abruptly canceled this morning as
Republicans regrouped to plot their next move.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is the Senate bill's author,
said he would not sign a conference report that included the provision. To break
the stalemate, the provision's sponsor, Representative Elton Gallegly,
Republican of California, offered Republican leaders a vastly watered-down
version of his original measure.

Meanwhile, the House Republican leader, Representative Dick Armey of Texas, told
reporters that House Republicans were seeking assurances from the White House
that President Clinton would sign the immigration bill, and not raise new
objections, if the offending provision was dropped.

House and Senate Republican leaders met throughout the day with their top
lieutenants to devise an escape route from what has become a political morass.
"We're not rethinking our strategy, but we may be rethinking our substance,"
Senator Trent Lott, the Mississippi Republican who is the majority leader, told
reporters.

Democrats watching the spectacle were positively gleeful. "Our Republican
friends are in disarray," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts.

An aide to Mr. Clinton who follows immigration issues, Rahm I. Emanuel, said,
"We oppose Gallegly, son of Gallegly and grandson of Gallegly." Mr. Emanuel
would not say if Mr. Clinton would sign the bill if the provision was dropped,
but he said he welcomed Mr. Armey's call to "pass a bill that can be signed into
law."

But Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, who is a bellwether for Democrats on
immigration issues, said in an interview, "I'd support the bill as is if
Gallegly is out."

Aside from the education provision, the immigration bill enjoys broad bipartisan
support in the House and Senate, which approved their versions of the bill by
overwhelming margins earlier this year.

The legislation would double the number of Border Patrol officers, increase
workplace inspections and restrict public benefits to legal immigrants. But much
of this is already financed or included in the recently passed welfare bill, so
the fight has been largely symbolic for Mr. Dole and the Republicans.

The education provision is included in the House bill but not the Senate
version. It has been a major sticking point for the bill.

The measure is particularly popular in California, where Gov. Pete Wilson, a
Republican, has complained that his state must pay $2 billion a year to educate
thousands of children who are illegal immigrants.

Speaker Newt Gingrich of Georgia has spoken passionately in favor of the
provision, arguing that it is unfair for states to shoulder such a large
financial burden. But Mr. Gingrich is also worried about the fate of many
Southern California Republicans in tight races this year, and he believes that
taking a hard line against illegal immigrants, even children, would win votes.

But the Senate has taken a much dimmer view of the provision, with as many as a
dozen Republicans joining virtually all Democrats to oppose the measure as a
mean-spirited move that would toss thousands of children onto the street.

To try to ease some of these concerns, Mr. Gallegly and Senator Arlen Specter,
Republican of Pennsylvania, brokered a compromise that would allow children in
elementary school to stay in class until the seventh grade. At that time, their
parents would have to pay tuition, about $6,000 a year in some states, to
continue their classes. Students already in seventh grade or upper grades would
be allowed to graduate from high school.

The compromise also calls for the General Accounting Office, the investigative
arm of Congress, to review the effects of the provision after two and a half
years, at which time Congress would have to vote to continue the restrictions.

But that compromise seems to have unraveled, partly because of Mr. Clinton's
repeated veto threat and partly because of Senator Simpson's unusual attack on
the measure.

Senator Simpson opposes the substance of the measure and rejects the Republican
political calculation that the public would blame Senate Democrats for
filibustering the measure or Mr. Clinton for vetoing it, if it ever reached his
desk. "That is childish logic," Mr. Simpson said in a floor speech on Monday,
"because there are at least 10 to 12 Republicans in this body who do not like
the Gallegly amendment in any form and who will assist in filibuster."

Today, Mr. Gallegly was suggesting an even weaker version of his provision that
calls for a study of illegal immigrant schoolchildren in various states for a
year before Congress votes on restrictions.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Alan K. Simpson, left, the author of a Senate bill to
crack down on illegal immigration, opposes a provision to allow states to
withhold schooling for children and discussed the matter with Senator Jon Kyl.
(Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE IMMIGRATION BATTLE;
School Plan Forces the G.O.P. Into a Dilemma

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 9;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 688 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20


As House and Senate Republicans struggle to salvage a bill cracking down on
illegal immigration that President Clinton will sign, they are reluctantly
conceding that what serves their own interests may hurt Bob Dole's Presidential
campaign.

Lawmakers said they hoped to resolve the problem by Tuesday, when Congress
returns from a long holiday weekend. A closed-door meeting of House and Senate
Republicans at the Capitol on Thursday night ended without a decision.

The major sticking point is a provision that would allow states to bar illegal
immigrant children from public schools. There is a growing consensus among
Republicans in favor of dropping it, in large part because any bill containing
that provision faces a bipartisan filibuster led by Democrats in the Senate and
a veto threat from President Clinton.

That would be fine with Mr. Dole, who is eager to deny his rival another
bill-signing photo opportunity in the Rose Garden. But legislators, particularly
those from states with many illegal immigrants, are eager to bring a bill home
to their constituents.

One face-saving idea that House and Senate Republicans discussed at the meeting
on Thursday was to vote separately on the education measure and the immigration
bill, instead of having them rolled together in one bill. Under that plan, the
House would probably pass the education provision and the Senate would block it.
The overall bill would pass without the provision, but at least proponents of
the provision would have a vote to campaign on.

That outcome would still be a humiliating setback for Mr. Dole, who has backed
the education provision and who sent Scott Reed, his campaign manager, to tell
senior Republicans last week that having no immigration bill would be better
than allowing Mr. Clinton to claim the legislation as his own.

But Mr. Dole's strategy of turning Democratic opposition to a popular bill into
a Republican campaign issue backfired when many House Republicans decided that
they were better off pleasing their constituents by tackling the difficult
immigration issue than playing to Mr. Dole's Presidential campaign.

With time running out before Congress adjourns for the year, Republicans are
scrambling to find a way out.

"We've got to figure out a way to get a bill," said Senator Jon Kyl, an Arizona
Republican who is a member of the House-Senate conference committee handling the
legislation.

The education provision is a such a large sticking point because Speaker Newt
Gingrich of Georgia has promised a fellow Republican, Gov. Pete Wilson of
California, that the education measure will stay in the bill.

The education provision is especially popular in California, which says it
spends $1.8 billion a year to educate more than 350,000 children who are illegal
immigrants. Mr. Wilson sent a letter on Thursday to Senate Republicans to urge
them to "do the right thing" and include the education provision, which is
sponsored by a California Republican, Representative Elton Gallegly.

Civil rights advocates and their Congressional supporters say that even if the
education provision is dropped, other less-noticed provisions in the bill would
threaten the environment, deny legal protections to all immigrants and impose
harsher restrictions on legal immigrants than the recently passed welfare bill.

Under the proposed compromise, virtually every court would be prevented from
blocking the Immigration and Naturalization Service, even in cases that seem to
involve violations of the law or the Constitution.  The immigration service
would also be exempted from environmental laws when building roads and barriers
along the border.

Legal immigrants could be deported if they used many types of public aid, like
child care and English classes, for more than 12 months.

The concerns are broad enough that the White House has refused to promise that
President Clinton will sign the bill even if the education provision is dropped.
"There are clearly things in the bill we don't like," said George
Stephanopoulos, a senior adviser to the President. "I'm not going to play the
'what if' game."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 24, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

G.O.P. WILL DELETE DISPUTED MEASURE IN IMMIGRANT BILL

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 899 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23


Republican Congressional leaders have agreed to drop from a stalled immigration
bill a divisive provision that would allow states to bar illegal-immigrant
children from school.

The new accord will most likely help the election campaigns of many House
Republicans but had been opposed by Bob Dole, the party's Presidential nominee.

Under the new arrangement, expected to be announced on Tuesday, Republican
members of a House-Senate conference committee that has been working on the
legislation will strip the school provision from the broader bill and schedule
it for a vote as a separate measure. And, in a further compromise on that
provision, any illegal-immigrant children enrolled in any grade as of Jan. 1,
1997, would be permitted to stay through high school.

The agreement enhances the prospects for enactment of the broader measure and
its crackdown on illegal immigration, an achievement on which Congressional
candidates would be able to campaign. And the arrangement for a separate vote on
the school provision may be enough to solve what would otherwise be a political
problem for California Republicans, who feel they need to stand tough against
the high costs that their state pays to educate illegal immigrants.

But it is a setback for Mr. Dole, who argued against just such a move earlier
this month. At the time, the nominee sent his campaign manager to Capitol Hill
to maintain that Republicans' insisting on the school provision, which the
Administration opposes, would put President Clinton on the defensive as a
resister against the generally popular immigration legislation. And if the
President did not bend to the pressure, at least he would be denied another
bill-signing photo opportunity in the Rose Garden.

Still, any bill including the school provision faced not only Mr. Clinton's veto
but also a bipartisan Senate filibuster led by Democrats. In the end,
Congressional Republicans concluded that the political points to be scored by
attacking the President on the issue were not worth those to be lost by failing
to pass an immigration bill. As things stand now, the school provision will
probably be blocked by the Senate after it is passed by the House as a separate
measure, but at least its supporters from California and other states with large
numbers of illegal immigrants will have had the opportunity to cast a vote on
which to campaign.

All this might seem to add up to a big political victory for Mr. Clinton.  But
in the last few days top Administration aides have raised new objections to the
bill and suggested that he may not sign it.

The President has been under pressure from liberals who are already angered by
his signing of the recently enacted welfare legislation and who recall his
promise to try to use the immigration bill as a vehicle to try to smooth some of
its harsher edges. In what may have been an 11th-hour bargaining ploy,
Administration officials today withheld the promise of Mr. Clinton's support for
the revised immigration measure until Republicans tell them details of the
compromise.

"We have to hear it from them, and we haven't," said George Stephanopoulos, a
senior adviser to the President.

Among other things, the immigration bill would double the number of Border
Patrol officers and restrict public benefits to legal immigrants.  And despite
provisions that civil rights advocates say would deny legal protections to all
immigrants and impose harsher restrictions on legal immigrants than does the new
welfare law, the version that excludes the school provision enjoys broad
bipartisan support in Congress. Mr. Clinton could face political risks if he
suddenly balked at signing it.

After deciding to separate the education provision from the bill, Republicans
today tried to cast the best light on a disappointing legislative episode.

"We want to do everything we can to stem the tide of illegal immigrants," said
Michele Davis, a spokeswoman for Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House
majority leader. "If that means continuing to have an entitlement for illegal
aliens, well, at least we'll go after other things."

The House included the school provision in the immigration bill it passed
earlier this year, but the Senate did not, arguing that it would toss tens of
thousands of children onto the streets and head them toward careers in crime.

Along with Mr. Dole, House Republicans tried at first to use Democratic
opposition to the provision to paint the Democrats as weak on illegal
immigration and to deny Mr. Clinton a bill the President would undoubtedly call
his own. But the strategy backfired when many Republicans calculated that it
better served their own interests to get even a weaker bill signed into law than
to have a new issue to fight the President on, however much the new issue would
help Mr. Dole's flagging Presidential campaign.

"I don't like it," the school provision's Republican sponsor, Representative
Elton Gallegly of California, said tonight of the leaders' decision to strip the
provision from the bill. "But at least we'll get an up-or-down vote on this."

The provision's new exemption for the many thousands of illegal-immigrant
children already enrolled in any grade was suggested weeks ago by two Senate
Republicans, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah and Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming. But House
Republicans dismissed the proposal then.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 27, 1996, Friday

CORRECTION:

A front-page article on Tuesday about an agreement by Republican Congressional
leaders to drop a disputed provision of a new immigration bill misidentified the
place where Bob Dole's campaign manager, Scott Reed, told two Republican
lawmakers that Mr. Dole did not want Congress to pass an immigration bill that
President Clinton could claim as his own. (An article on Sept. 13 also included
the error.) The meeting, on Sept. 12, took place at the Dole campaign
headquarters near Capitol Hill; it was not a Congressional office.


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

House Votes 2 Bills to Curb Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B;   Page 12;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 760 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25


The House today approved one bill that would crack down on illegal immigration
and another that would allow states to deny a public education to any illegal
immigrant children who are not enrolled in school by next July.

The overall immigration bill is likely to be approved in some form by the Senate
and signed by President Clinton. But the education measure will almost certainly
go no further, serving only as a symbolic vote for many lawmakers, particularly
California Republicans, who are angry over the high costs of educating the
children if illegal immigrants.

"This sends a signal to the world: Don't come here illegally and think the
American taxpayer will take care of you," said Speaker Newt Gingrich, making a
rare floor speech in favor of the education ban.

But the signal is not likely to be heard beyond the House floor. Even Senate
Republicans concede that the bill stands little chance of coming to a vote, much
less passing.

Indeed, the Senate may not even take a separate vote on the immigration
conference report the House approved. House and Senate leaders and White House
aides continued today to discuss the possibility of wrapping the immigration
bill into a much larger catch-all spending bill.

That could allow Mr. Clinton to negotiate changes in some provisions that he
objects to, including a ban on federally financed treatment for legal immigrants
who have H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. That would also enable Republicans
to avert a White House immigration bill-signing ceremony that would enhance the
President's image.

House approval of the overall immigration conference report was assured when
Republican Congressional leaders agreed this week to drop the education
provision from the bill and vote on it separately.

The vote on the immigration conference report was 305 to 123. When the House
voted on its version of the immigration bill in March, the margin was even
wider, 333 to 87. But 37 more Democrats opposed the conference report, arguing
that it was harsher toward legal immigrants than the original bill.

Under the conference report, critics said, legal immigrants who use more than 12
months of public benefits, including English classes and child care, in seven
years could be deported. The bill, critics say, weakens anti-discrimination
protections in the workplace for legal immigrants. And it strips most courts of
the power to overrule decisions by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
that may be wrong.

"The problem with this bill is that it cons the American public that major new
steps will be taken," said Representative Howard L. Berman, Democrat of
California.

But supporters of the legislation, which nearly doubles the size of the
5,175-agent Border Patrol and speeds the deportation of immigrants who are
criminals, said the concerns were exaggerated.

"America should continue to welcome those who want to work and produce and
contribute," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who sponsored
the House bill. "But we should discourage those who come to live off the
taxpayer. America should keep out the welcome mat but not become a doormat."

Cut from the larger bill and modified to exempt any illegal immigrant children
already in school, the education measure passed by a vote of 254 to 175. The
House approved a much tougher version in March, which did not exempt currently
enrolled children, by a vote of 257 to 163.

Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican who sponsored the
measure, called it a states' rights issue. Under a Federal mandate to educate
all children, California alone spends $1.8 billion a year to educate more than
350,000 children of illegal immigrants.

Mr. Gallegly and other supporters said states should have the power to rebuff
that Federal mandate, which is supported by a United States Supreme Court
decision.

Another California Republican, Representative Brian P. Bilbray, said, "The
message this sends is that illegal immigrants are not going to be rewarded for
breaking the law."

But opponents said the measure would put thousands of children in the streets
and punish youngsters for the deeds of their parents. "It sounds like a good
idea, but it would cause a lot of trouble," said Representative John Bryant, a
Texas Democrat.

A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in August found that 54 percent of
respondents believed that children of illegal immigrants should be allowed to
receive a public education, while 41 percent said they should not. Four percent
were undecided.



LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Pregnant Immigrants Wait Out Policy Storm

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section A;   Page 1;   Column 2;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1554 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 15


The pregnant young women began to vanish from community health clinics in East
Los Angeles several weeks ago, scattered by Gov. Pete Wilson's announcement that
California would soon cut off prenatal care to illegal immigrants under the new
Federal welfare law.

Where the women have gone is uncertain. Most seem to have stayed home, assuming
that their appointments had been canceled. But where some of the women and their
newborn children will turn up, doctors say, is more predictable: in emergency
rooms and neonatal intensive-care units. And just as inevitably, the doctors
add, their care then will come at a far greater public cost.

"From a public-health perspective, this is a no-brainer," said Thomas Peters,
the president of the state association of public-health executives, which
opposes the Governor's plan. "In addition to the humanitarian and clinical
considerations, it is an extremely prudent financial decision not to let any
woman go without adequate prenatal care."

The choice being posed has set off a quiet revolt among public-health officials
across the state. Stripped of Federal and state funds to help these women, the
officials say, they will either have to carve new resources for illegal
immigrants from their own emaciated county health budgets or do nothing for the
women -- knowing that state and Federal agencies will continue to cover the
costs of the patients' emergency care.

Lawyers for a coalition of civil rights groups filed today for a restraining
order in Federal District Court here, trying to stop the state from cutting off
the funds for prenatal care on the grounds that doing so would violate an
earlier Federal Court ruling and the California constitution.

San Francisco County and a half-dozen other counties in Northern California have
already announced that they will continue to provide prenatal care to illegal
immigrant women if the state cuts off its aid. In more politically conservative
counties, like San Diego and Orange Counties, some local officials who had
backed the idea of cutting off benefits to illegal immigrants say they are
having second thoughts.

Most other states with large foreign-born populations are still debating how to
deal with the cuts in aid for both legal and illegal immigrants that are in the
new welfare law. But the fight over prenatal care in California offers a glimpse
of the kind of struggle that policy analysts expect to be repeated again and
again as Federal welfare spending is reduced and services for immigrants bear
much of the brunt of the trims.

"The devolution of responsibility for all these programs to the counties is just
going to sharpen the conflict," said Frank D. Bean, director of the Population
Research Center at the University of Texas. "The feds get to decide who and how
many people come into the country. But the costs largely get paid at the state
and local level."

In final deliberations over the immigration bill that was approved two weeks
ago, negotiators dropped Republican-sponsored provisions that could have barred
illegal immigrants from public schools and would have ended AIDS treatment and
battered-spouse services for illegal and legal immigrants. But advocates on both
sides of the issue say the debate has probably just begun over immigrants'
access to other public health and safety benefits, like the services that help
control the spread of infectious diseases and keep schoolchildren out of gangs.

Under the terms of the new welfare law, the Federal Government will bar most
legal immigrants from food stamps and Supplemental Security Income for the
elderly and disabled; states may also halt Medicaid benefits to legal immigrants
if they choose.

Although illegal immigrants are already ineligible for nearly all Federal
benefit programs, they have received prenatal care and some other Medicaid
benefits. The new law will cut off funding for virtually all services to illegal
immigrants except public education, immunizations and emergency medical care. If
state governments want to continue to provide particular services to illegal
immigrants, they are supposed to pass laws to that effect.

In California, Governor Wilson has celebrated the welfare law as a long-awaited
victory in the state's efforts to eliminate aid to illegal immigrants. A ballot
initiative to do that, Proposition 187, has been blocked by legal challenges
since its approval in 1994.

Under the Federal mandate that has required states to pay for labor and delivery
services for pregnant women and other emergency care, state officials say,
California's overall health spending on illegal immigrants has risen to $385
million in the last fiscal year from $22.1 million in the 1988 fiscal year.

In the last fiscal year, state officials say, California provided prenatal care
to more than 70,000 illegal immigrants at a cost of $69.3 million. Of the
roughly 212,000 women in the state whose obstetrical care was paid for in 1994
with Federal and state Medicaid funds, nearly 76,000, or about 36 percent, were
illegal immigrants.

"Nobody is arguing about whether prenatal care benefits are good or bad," said a
spokeswoman for the Governor, Lisa Kalustian. "Obviously it's a good thing. But
we don't have enough resources. The Governor feels that it is unfair to deny
people who are here obeying the laws when you're giving benefits to people who
broke the law to come in."

But in both the liberal strongholds of the San Francisco Bay area and the much
more conservative counties in the southern part of the state, public-health
officials described the state government's logic as flawed.

A bipartisan study done in 1985 for the House Select Committee on Children,
Youth and Families found that for each dollar spent on prenatal care, $3 was
saved in neonatal care costs; other estimates have put that figure for savings
over a child's lifetime at as much as $10 for each dollar spent. A single bad
case of spina bifida -- a birth defect in which the spinal column does not
close, which occurs disproportionately in the children of Hispanic women -- can
ultimately cost hundreds of thousands of dollars, doctors said. It can be
prevented if folic acid, a B vitamin, is consumed early in pregnancy.

"If we don't provide the care, the logical conclusion is that normal deliveries
will turn into complicated deliveries," said Irene E. Riley, chief of
governmental relations for the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services.
"You'll have more runs to the emergency room. You'll have more newborns in the
neonatal intensive care. And the cost of deliveries will go up."

Ms. Kalustian argued that it was wrong to assume that all the immigrant women
now receiving benefits would stay in the United States. Halting aid, she said,
is a necessary first step to dissuade immigrants from entering the United States
illegally or to prompt them to return to their homelands. But experts on
immigration counter that so long as the United States has jobs that pay more
than those in the countries from which the immigrants come, they will keep
coming and they will stay.

At the main outpost of the Community Health Foundation of East Los Angeles, a
small, buzzing network of clinics that is the state's largest private purveyor
of care to illegal immigrants, expectant mothers tell the same story over and
over, with variations to account for the hardships of a particular home village
or the foibles of a wayward husband or boyfriend.

"There is no other place to go," said a 25-year-old pregnant woman from the
northern Mexican city of Durango who asked to not be identified, when asked what
she would do without access to public health services. "I never thought that I
wanted my son to be from here. I just wanted to get out of there. There, you
just suffer. Here, at least we eat better."

New York, by virtue of a 1992 Federal Appeals Court ruling, is the one state in
the country that has, until now, been reimbursed by the Federal Government for
the costs of prenatal care for illegal immigrants. Officials in New York City
remain openly hostile to the idea of cutting primary and preventive health care
to any immigrant in need.

"How do you protect everyone from contagious diseases if you frighten illegal
immigrants away from the health system?" asked Richard J. Schwartz, a senior
adviser to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.

In Florida and many other states, officials have often availed themselves of a
Medicaid loophole that allows 45 days of Federally financed coverage for
pregnant women while their eligibility and immigration status are checked. That
window will now close. Florida officials say they will continue to forgo
nationality checks as long as they can, but with the relatively low tax rate
that is crucial to Florida's politically influential retirees, the officials
have begun to wonder whether a backlash against immigrant services, like the one
in California, is only a matter of time.

"Unless somebody forces the issue, unless there is a change in state law, we are
going to continue to use state dollars to fund child health and prenatal care,"
said Dr. Leslie M. Beitsch, the assistant state health officer. "But we are also
going to have to start looking around for things that you can cut. We haven't
had a Proposition 187-type debate here yet. Now we may."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Pete Wilson says California will soon end prenatal care for
illegal immigrants, like this 25-year-old woman from Mexico at a clinic in East
Los Angeles. She said, "There is no other place to go." (Liliana Nieto del Rio
for The New York Times)(pg. B9)

Graphs: "MEASURING THE IMPACT: Medical Care for Illegal Immigrants" shows the
cases of illegal immigrants receiving emergency care in California and the
annual costs to the state for that care from 1988 to 1996. (Source: Office of
Governor Pete Wilson, California)(pg. B9)



                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 24, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Drownings May Show Illegal Immigrants Are Taking More Risks

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 589 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Nov. 23


At least four men were swept to their deaths off a Gulf of Mexico sandbar this
week, and an immigration research group sees a connection between this latest
fatal incident involving would-be immigrants and increased Federal border
enforcement.

Although details of the drownings remain sketchy, the group, the University of
Houston's Center for Immigration Research, says immigrants are trying crossings
at riskier sites to avoid intensified enforcement at commonly used crossing
points.

Witnesses reported that a group of about 10 men, women and children were carried
away by high waves at the mouth of the Rio Grande last Sunday while wading the
normally placid river border between Mexico and Texas, the authorities said. The
bodies of three men were recovered in the area, about 20 miles east of this
border town.

A former neighbor identified two of the victims as Umar Hayyat Nagi, 49, an
engineer, and his nephew, Farakh Sullman Nagi, 30, a printer, both of Lahore,
Pakistan, said Joe Elizardi, chief sheriff's deputy of Cameron County, Tex.

The third victim whose body was recovered has not been identified. The body of a
fourth man was washed ashore but taken back by heavy tides before it was
recovered. No other bodies have been found.

"The witnesses saw about 10 people walking out on the sandbar when all of a
sudden a large wave overtook them and just washed them all away," Mr. Elizardi
said. "The sad thing is that from the end of the sandbar it was just 20 yards to
the beach. They were very, very close."

Mr. Elizardi said documents found in the possession of the victims suggested
that the two Pakistani men were illegal immigrants who traveled a circuitous
route through Russia, Cuba and Guatemala before arriving at remote Boca Chica
beach. It is not unusual for people from Central Asia and many other nations to
be found crossing from Mexico into the United States illegally.

An Oklahoma University student who was a neighbor of the two men when they lived
in Pakistan identified them on Thursday and said they had probably been headed
for New York to reunite with family members, Mr. Elizardi said.

Investigators at the Center for Immigration Research say stepped-up border
enforcement is leading an increasing number of people to try crossings in remote
and dangerous locations. The center says at least 190 migrants die crossing the
border between Mexico and Texas each year, usually by drowning.

"People take more risks -- that's our hypothesis," said Jacqueline Hagan, an
associate director of the research center, which has studied thousands of
immigrant deaths from 1985 to 1994. As enforcement is increased in other states,
she said, migrants are going to move east to try to cross the Texas border,
which is more dangerous because they have to cross water.

Larry Jackson, assistant chief of the McAllen sector of the Border Patrol, said
immigrants often tried to avoid areas of high enforcement.

"We're maintaining a high visibility" in the urban areas around Brownsville, Mr.
Jackson said. "As long as we keep pressure up there, they're going to try to
flank us."

Local officials expressed dismay that the group involved in Sunday's incident --
especially if it included children -- would brave the mouth of the Rio Grande
during rough weather. The victims were probably caught in a powerful undertow,
Coast Guard and National Weather Service authorities said. Narrow, shallow and
split by sandbars, the river there is pitted with deeper pools and can be
dangerous to swimmers.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 28, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Halts California Cutoff of Prenatal Care to Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 27


Less than a week before thousands of illegal immigrants in California were to
start losing state money for prenatal care because of an order by the Governor,
a San Francisco Superior Court judge has blocked the plan, saying the state
could not support ordering a cutoff on an emergency basis.

Judge William Cahill, ruling on Tuesday in a suit brought against Gov. Pete
Wilson by plaintiffs including the City of San Francisco, issued a preliminary
injunction against the Governor's emergency order that money for new applicants
to the state's prenatal care program be stopped on Dec. 1. Current recipients
would have been cut from the program as of Jan. 1.

State officials said that in the last fiscal year, California provided prenatal
care under a 1988 state law to more than 70,000 undocumented aliens.

Lawyers for the state argued that Governor Wilson's plan, which was announced on
Nov. 1, was justified as an emergency under the Federal welfare reform act that
passed in August.

That law cuts off money for virtually all services to illegal immigrants except
emergency medical care and public education.

Under California law, emergency regulations can be issued before the often
lengthy sessions of public comment and review.

Judge Cahill rejected the argument that there was an urgent need for rewriting
state regulations.

"The mere enactment of a new Federal law does not automatically create an
emergency here in California," Judge Cahill wrote.

He added that he could not see how the Federal's law passage "suddenly presented
California with a crisis of such magnitude that public input should be barred
from the rule-making process."

The judge ordered state officials to follow standard administrative procedures
in drafting the new regulations, a process that is expected to take several
months. Until those rules can be approved, the state will continue to offer care
to illegal immigrants, said Lisa Kalustian, a spokeswoman for the Governor.

Governor Wilson, a Republican, immediately condemned the ruling.

"The decision is totally erroneous," Mr. Wilson said in a written statement. "It
takes California out of compliance with Federal law and will cost California
approximately $25 to $35 million." He also said the decision would be appealed.

Shortly after President Clinton signed the welfare bill, Mr. Wilson issued an
executive order that directed state agencies to assess which programs contrary
to the new law were being used by undocumented aliens and to take steps to end
those benefits.

One of Mr. Wilson's targets has been prenatal care, which cost the state $69.3
million in the last year.

Other areas in which Mr. Wilson expected benefits to be revoked were public
housing, post-secondary education and professional licensing.

Workers who care for illegal immigrants said the decision gave them a chance to
work for less severe cutbacks.

"It's a victory in that in that there will be public comment and people might
see the mean-spiritedness behind this," said Rodolfo Diaz, the executive
director of the Community Health Foundation of East Los Angeles, the state's
largest prenatal care provider for undocumented aliens and one of the plaintiffs
in the case. "These women will have health care for Christmas."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 7, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
U.S. Pays for Jailing Aliens

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section 1;    Page 25;    Column 1;    Metropolitan Desk;    Second
Front

LENGTH: 118 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY


The Federal Government has agreed to pick up a major portion of what Hudson
County is spending to keep illegal aliens convicted of crimes behind bars. On
Thursday, the Justice Department awarded the county $106,026, which will cover
60 percent of the projected cost next year of housing convicted illegal
immigrants at the county jail. The awards to Hudson and nearly 100 other cities
and counties across the nation mark the first time the Federal Government has
reimbursed local governments for the costs of incarcerating criminals who are
illegal immigrants. County Executive Robert Janiszewski said reimbursement was
only fair. "We didn't let illegal aliens in," he said. "It's not our
responsibility."

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 12, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Passport Quandary For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By JANE H. LII

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words


Six years ago, L. J. Lin left China for the United States. She says she paid a
smuggler $30,000 to get to New York City, where she is a garment worker. Two
months ago, wanting to return home to see the son she had left when he was a
newborn, she paid the same smuggler $2,000 for a Chinese passport.

Although Ms. Lin said she never had a passport from her homeland, the new one
she received after an interview with an employee of the Chinese Consulate that
the smuggler had told her to visit in New York was labeled a replacement.

She joined a growing stream of illegal immigrants obtaining such passports, a
surge in demand corresponding to an influx of illegal Chinese immigrants since
the early 1990's. Travel agencies and businesses that serve these immigrants,
many from the Fujian Province of China, now openly advertise "passport
replacement" services in local Chinese newspapers.

Now those same newspapers are reporting from China that returning Fujianese
immigrants have been arrested there on charges that their passports were
fraudulent.

Ms. Lin and many others in her situation say they now fear that their new
passports, which they bought hoping for a legal way back to China, will put them
at risk in both China and the United States. By going public with her
allegations, Ms. Lin risks arrest in the United States. Because many of the
Fujianese immigrants received very little education in China and depend heavily
on middlemen to communicate their needs to others, Ms. Lin and others
interviewed said they did not understand that they were committing a fraud by
buying such passports.

"Many people have been calling our office after they found out about the
arrest," said Gao Xishong, the proprietor of Gao's Business Service Center,
which provides help and advice to Fujianese immigrants on a variety of issues
but does not help obtain passports. "People are very disturbed by the news."

Mr. Gao said one of his clients was arrested in Shanghai in October. Mr. Gao
said that while he had no doubt that Ms. Lin's passport -- complete with the
signature of the Consul for Passport and Visa Affairs, Li Zhengming, the stamp
of the People's Republic of China and the words "the Consulate General of the
P.R.C. in New York" -- was issued by the Chinese Consulate here, the lack of the
necessary corresponding documents in Fuzhou, China, made it a forgery.

Mr. Gao said he found out this month through a business associate in Fuzhou that
while Ms. Lin's passport stated it was the replacement of another passport,
there was no documentation in the Public Safety Bureau in Fuzhou, where such
documents would have been held, indicating that the original number existed
there, much less under Ms. Lin's name.

"We looked at all the records in the Fuzhou Public Safety Bureau," the
associate, who requested anonymity, said during a telephone interview from
Fuzhou. "The original number doesn't exist here. Neither does her passport
application. We found nothing under her name."

Indeed, Ms. Lin said she never owned the original passport that her current one
had supposedly replaced.

"I was smuggled into America," said Ms. Lin, a slight, bespectacled woman in her
late 30's. "I didn't have a passport."

Ms. Lin said she was summoned to the consulate for a face-to-face interview and
later received the passport from a smuggler, called a snakehead by immigrants.

"All the woman asked was if I was smuggled into America," Ms. Lin said. "I told
her, 'Yes.' That was the end of the interview. Two weeks later, the snakehead
delivered the passport to me."

A law enforcement official in Fuzhou who insisted on anonymity confirmed that
people had been arrested entering China with counterfeit passports in the last
few years but would not comment on the specific arrest in October. A spokesman
from Public Security Bureau of Shanghai said only, "We'll look into it."

Mr. Gao said he telephoned the Central Commission of Discipline Inspection of
the Communist Party of China, an agency that investigates corruption by
government employees, last week to report Ms. Lin's case. He said investigators
told him that they had been aware of the problem and were conducting an
investigation.

A member of the commission who answered the telephone in Beijing on Sunday
evening refused to confirm or deny that such an investigation was under way or
that any inspector had come to New York.

Because Mr. Gao did not provide the consulate with the identity of any people
with questionable passports or the pertinent serial numbers on the passports,
the consulate has refused to comment on their authenticity, saying only that it
does not issue bogus documents.

"We represent the People's Republic of China," Mr. Li, the consulate official,
said. "We do not dabble in counterfeit passports."

Russell Bergeron, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
said the possession of false travel documents was a Federal crime punishable by
up to five years in prison.

Until recently, a passport was a necessary document for many of the Fujianese
immigrants who filed for permanent residency soon after entering the United
States.

An applicant residing in the United States illegally was required to return to
his homeland to file an application for legal entry into the United States
through the American embassies or consulates, Mr. Bergeron said. But he said
Congress amended the law several years ago. Applicants living here illegally now
need only to pay a penalty to apply here to have their status adjusted.

Even with this change, the demand for passports among Chinese immigrants has
surged as many yearn to visit their families back home.

"Everybody I know is trying to buy passports," said a Chinatown vendor who did
not want his name used. "Who doesn't want to go home and see their children
after all these years?"

Although his current passport was also a replacement of another passport that he
did not own, the man said he was not concerned about its authenticity.

"Why should I worry if I know it came from the consulate?" he said. "I went for
a face-to-face interview there and lined up in the passport office to pick it up
myself two weeks later. If it came from the consulate, it must be real."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A replacement passport issued by the Chinese Consulate in New
York.


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 8, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Rose to 5 Million in '96

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7


The estimated number of immigrants living in the United States illegally has
increased by about 1.1 million people, to a total of 5 million people in the
last four years, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said today.

The agency said its estimate of the average annual influx of immigrants who
overstayed their visas or entered illegally slowed in the four-year period ended
in 1996 as compared with the four-year period ended in 1992, but only to 275,000
immigrants a year, from 281,000 a year.

"The important thing is there hasn't been very much of a decline in illegal
immigration, if any, in recent years," said Jeffrey S. Passel, a demographer who
studies immigration trends at the Urban Institute, a research group here.

In response to a growing popular resentment against illegal immigrants,
President Clinton last year signed into law a Republican-sponsored bill that
cracked down on undocumented foreigners, in part by hiring more agents for the
United States Border Patrol.

Even before that legislation, the immigration service's annual budget had
increased to $3.1 billion this year from $1.5 billion four years ago. But as the
new law takes effect and the immigration service enjoys its new financing,
Republican critics today challenged the Administration's commitment to enforcing
the nation's borders.

"Congress doubled the I.N.S. budget, but I'm not sure we're getting double our
money's worth," said Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who last
year was author of the immigration bill in the House.

Mr. Smith and Gov. Pete Wilson of California complained today that President
Clinton, in his newly proposed budget for the fiscal year 1998, would hire only
500 more Border Patrol agents, even though Congress authorized hiring 1,000 new
agents.  Administration officials had embraced the Congressional goal last year.

But immigration agency officials said today they were coping with a legacy of
neglect left by two Republican Administrations. Only now, these officials said,
is the immigration service beginning to make inroads in combating illegal
immigration.

"Over the past two decades, the country has had insufficient resources and
attention to illegal immigration problems," Robert Bach, the agency's executive
associate commissioner for policy and planning, told reporters today.

Mr. Bach noted that the number of immigrants deported increased last year to
68,294 from 50,272 in 1995. He said the agency's goal was 93,000 deportations
this year.

The figures the immigration service announced today are estimates based on
Census Bureau data and the numbers of immigrants the Government knows are here
legally. The five million figure has a margin of error of plus or minus 400,000
people.

California, which accounts for 40 percent of the nation's illegal immigrants,
now has about 2 million illegal immigrants, up from 1.6 million in 1992. In
Texas, which ranks a distant second, the number of illegal immigrants increased
to 700,000 from 530,000 four years ago.

In New York, which has the third highest number of illegal residents, the number
increased to 540,000 in 1996 from 410,000 in 1992. In New Jersey, the number of
illegal immigrants jumped to 135,000 from 105,000 four years ago. In
Connecticut, the figure increased to 29,000 from 22,000.

The agency's estimates showed that 54 percent of the 5 million illegal
immigrants came from Mexico. The four other countries with the largest number of
illegal residents in the United States are El Salvador, Guatemala, Canada and
Haiti.

The agency today updated and revised statistics it announced two years ago in
its first effort to estimate the nation's illegal-resident population. Based on
new Census Bureau data, the agency said it now estimated that the number of
illegal residents in the country prior to October 1992 was 3.9 million, compared
with the previous estimate of 3.4 million. Virtually all of these additional
illegal residents came from Mexico, immigration officials said today.

Individuals included in the estimates are those who established a residence in
this country and lived here illegally for more than 12 months. Thousands more
enter the country illegally to work or visit relatives every year, but return
home before the 12-month threshold, immigration officials said.

Immigration officials said today that about 41 percent of the 5 million illegal
residents entered the country using tourist or worker visas, but did not return
home when their visas expired. The remaining 59 percent entered the country
illegally.

How illegal immigrants entered each state varied greatly. In New York, for
example, 490,000 of the 540,000, overstayed their visas. But in California,
three out of four illegal residents entered the state without documentation.
Illegal residents make up about 6 percent of California's total population, the
immigration service said.

"The new I.N.S. numbers just illustrate what we already know: America has
increasing problems with illegal aliens," said Senator Spencer Abraham, a
Michigan Republican who is the new chairman of the Senate Judiciary subcommittee
on immigration. "We need to give the new law time to work."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "UPDATE: Without Papers" -- The Immigration and Naturalization
Service estimates that there were five million undocumented residents in the
United States in October 1996. Chart lists the top countries of origin and
estimated number of undocumented residents in Oct. 1996 and lists the states
with the largest estimated number of undocumented residents in Oct. 1996.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 10, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Italian Isle a Stepping Stone for Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELESTINE BOHLEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

DATELINE: LAMPEDUSA, Italy


In recent years, this lonely patch of Italy, a windswept island that lies closer
to Africa than to Europe, has seen thousands of illegal immigrants arrive on its
shores.

Wet and bedraggled, they arrive from Tunisia by the boatful, only to be greeted
by the Italian authorities and sent on their way -- not home, but to government
processing centers in Sicily. There they are housed, fed and provided with an
expulsion order that gives them 15 days to leave the country -- which most do,
heading farther north in Europe.

Offering the easy prospect of securing what amounts to a 15-day visa to remain
in Italy, Lampedusa has become a natural stepping stone for North Africans
seeking jobs and a better life in the European Union, where borders are becoming
a thing of the past.

"In 1992, when the illegal immigration phenomenon began, they preferred to go
directly to Sicily, where they could hide in the countryside," said Capt.
Salvatore Orami, who heads the Italian Coast Guard here. "When they realized
that they didn't need to hide because they had a 15-day pass, then they started
coming here, because the crossing is shorter and safer."

The surge in boat traffic -- typically wooden Tunisian trawlers packed with 30
or 40 people -- peaked here last fall when 1,319 immigrants were intercepted in
October and escorted to the ferry that makes the daily eight-hour trip to
Sicily. Once, when the seas were too rough, a charter flight was arranged to
carry the immigrants to Sicily.

Those who manage to land unimpeded on Lampedusa's formidable rocky coast waste
little time allowing themselves to get caught. Some have even walked into one of
its landmarks, the Bar dell'Amizia, famous for its rich cream pastries, to ask
directions.

"Once an immigrant stopped me on the street to ask where he could get the train
to Naples," recalled the cafe's owner, Pino Brignone.

Since October, the coastal authorities have begun stopping boats before they
reach Italian waters, and have turned back hundreds of "clandestini" to the
Tunisian Coast Guard. But there are also many stories of those who did not make
it, anonymous tragedies like the bloated body of a North African man that was
snagged in a fisherman's net several weeks ago.

"We have no way of knowing how many boats we don't manage to rescue, how many
die crossing," Captain Orami said.

"We feel sorry for them," said Ignazio Bartolo, a Lampedusan fisherman out
repairing his nets, in view of a heap of Tunisians' discarded boats. "The sad
thing is that they think they've found an America in Italy, but we can only send
them on."

In the last few years, Italy's problem with illegal immigration has become
acute. With the collapse of Communism to the east, population pressures in
Africa to the south and an increasingly integrated European Union to its north,
this country of 56 million people -- historically a nation of emigrants -- finds
itself caught in the middle, dealing with a steady trickle of boat people not
only from nearby Albania and North Africa, but also from as far away as South
Asia and China.

Illegal immigration is difficult to quantify. But many estimates put the number
entering Italy -- which now accepts about 1 million legal immigrants -- at
several hundred thousand or more a year. And while many stay here -- taking
menial jobs, picking tomatoes, with some turning to drugs and prostitution --
many more go on to other European countries with established populations of
legal immigrants, like Turks in Germany, or Algerians and Moroccans in France.

In the last two years, Italy has deployed its biggest interdiction effort along
its Adriatic coast, which lies only a few hours way from Albania, Europe's
poorest country. In 1995, the Italian Army was sent to patrol the Adriatic
beaches, and last year, according to official figures, the authorities in the
southern region of Puglia succeeded in expelling 21,000 Albanians directly on
arrival.

And revisions are planned in the country's immigration law, including the 15-day
period allowed before leaving Italy.

But Italy's record in fending off illegal immigrants is spotty and its methods
inconsistent, in part because of a lack of coordination among rival coastal
policing agencies. And as the boats continue to pull ashore, they are bringing
an increasingly diverse selection of immigrants for whom a Mediterranean voyage
is just the last stop in a much longer journey.

"Italy is one of the favorite countries of destination for illegals who want to
get into the European Union," said Tamas Kiss, an official at the International
Center for Migration Policy Development, an intergovernmental organization based
in Vienna. "All of them just want to get into the European Union because as soon
as you are there, you are basically free to roam."

Italy is not a member of the Schengen group, made up of European nations that
banded together in 1995 to abolish joint border controls, although it hopes to
join in October. But its long coast and lonely outposts like Lampedusa remain a
concern for other Schengen members, who doubt Italy's ability to police them.

A major problem is the lack of coordination among the Italian coastal services.
There are at least four different agencies, of which the coast guard, with 9,000
people and 500 boats, is only one.

Even Italy's formidable tax police maintain a marine service that is almost the
same size as the coast guard and is charged with intercepting contraband. Since
the surge in boat traffic from Tunisia late last year, both the coast Guard and
the tax police, plus Italy's two national police forces, have been deployed here
in full force, with a combined fleet of more than 10 boats.

A bill is now before Parliament to coordinate the coastal agencies, but that has
only fanned their rivalries. Now, the report of a boatload of illegal immigrants
heading toward Lampedusa can send boats from the different agencies scurrying,
with no attempt at coordination.

"Sometimes we move out together, and sometimes no one moves out at all," said a
local official, who preferred not to be identified. "With these policies, Italy
is really the weak point of the European community in terms of immigration."


LOAD-DATE: February 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Maps show the location of Lampedusa: North Africans sail to Lampedusa
on their way to the Continent.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 8, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Prison in Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 101 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


An Egyptian man living in Jersey City who helped illegal immigrants fraudulently
obtain work permits was sentenced to two years in prison yesterday, an assistant
United States attorney said.

The suspect, Magdi Ali, 38, purportedly ran a brokerage business, TaTa
International, in Guttenberg. But more than 100 times in 1994 and 1995, he
actually used the company to process paperwork for obtaining permits, including
counterfeit marriage licenses, said Holly K. Kulka, the assistant attorney. Four
of the immigrants testified against him at a trial in November that led to his
fraud conviction.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Evidence in Queens for a Trial in China

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 824 words


It was a brutal example of a type of crime that has plagued illegal immigrants
from China in recent years: a woman was kidnapped on a Queens street corner in
January of 1996 and raped and tortured while her captors demanded ransom money
from her family in Fuzhou. The lead that helped the New York Police Department
crack the case and rescue the woman came from an unlikely quarter: their police
counterparts in China, who traced phone calls that the kidnappers made to the
victim's relatives.

Now the N.Y.P.D. is returning the favor. A delegation of Chinese investigators
arrived in New York this week to gather evidence to help convict two men who are
in custody in China, who the Chinese police said had planned to collect $38,800
in ransom from the woman's family. The delegation is made up of investigators
from Beijing, the Fujian Province and its capital, Fuzhou.

It was the first time police officials from China had come to New York to work
on a case, the police said, and investigators greeted the visit in much the same
way diplomats received Nixon's visit to China. "This really opens the door,"
said Sgt. Mike Hines of the Major Case Squad, the team that rescued the
kidnapped woman. "The wall is coming down."

Dr. Maoli Sun, an official with the Ministry of Public Security of the People's
Republic of China, said: "This kind of transnational crime must be investigated
in both countries. Cooperation is very important."

The lines of international communication opened in January last year after the
kidnapping of the Queens woman, an illegal alien who came to New York in 1992
with a false passport and worked at a Chinese restaurant in Freeport, L.I.

She was grabbed from a corner in Flushing, Queens, on Jan. 25, 1996, imprisoned
in a basement apartment in Hollis, Queens, for two weeks and beaten and raped
every day while her captors demanded a $38,800 ransom from her relatives in
China, the police said.

When investigators from the Major Case Squad called Fuzhou for help, the Chinese
police traced phone calls made to the woman's husband and came up with a phone
number of a Brooklyn apartment and a cellular phone number.

The New York police staked out the Brooklyn apartment, and followed two men who
left. A check of the men's license plate revealed that they were driving a
stolen car, so the police pulled them over and took them in for questioning.

One man wore a beeper, and the number of the cellular phone that had been used
to call the kidnapped woman's relatives was still in its memory, the police
said. The other man was carrying a slip of paper with the address of a basement
apartment in Hollis.

On Feb. 9, the deadline set by the kidnappers, investigators from the Major Case
Squad broke down the door of the Hollis apartment and found the victim huddled
in a corner, shackled and blindfolded. The police arrested a third man, her
captor, and found the cellular phone the kidnappers had used to call China. All
three of the suspects -- Jian Hong Lin, Qi Zhong Lin and Qiang Zheng -- were
tried and convicted of kidnapping, rape, sexual abuse and assault. The
ringleader, Qi Zhong Lin, was sentenced in State Supreme Court in Queens last
week to 194 years to life.

After the Chinese police officials return to Fuzhou with the testimony from the
United States trial, some phone records and other evidence, the suspects will be
tried by a tribunal of judges. If they are found guilty, their punishment will
likely be execution in the form of a single bullet to the head, officials said.

Leaders in New York's Fujianese community welcomed the cooperation and said that
they hoped it would make gangsters think twice before preying on Fujianese
immigrants. "A few years ago, community leaders would not dare speak out against
crime or coordinate meetings with the police," said Steven Wong, who is active
with several Fujianese groups. "Now we have this historic cooperation between
China and the N.Y.P.D."

Since last summer, the Major Case Squad has been trying to establish itself with
Fujianese immigrants in New York. The immigrants have been arriving in large
numbers since 1990 but have been victimized because they are less established
than other Chinese groups here and because few other Chinese immigrants can
understand their dialect.

There were 33 kidnappings of Chinese immigrants reported in 1995 and only one in
1996, the police said. Nearly 200 people have been arrested on charges linked to
Asian organized crime since the department began cracking down in 1995.

In addition to their police work, the Chinese officials visited with Fujianese
groups in New York.

At a visit to the sixth-floor headquarters of the United Fujianese of America
Association on East Broadway in Chinatown, Zhang Hongde, a security official
with the delegation, told the group in Chinese, "Our Government is very
concerned about the safety of the overseas Chinese in the United States."

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Maoli Sun, at left, a Chinese public security official, Sgt.
Douglas Lee of the New York Police Department and Zhang Hongde, at right, the
head of a Chinese police delegation, spoke before a luncheon yesterday. (Dith
Pran/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 5, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Protection for Farm Labor

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 288 words


Few laborers have as little clout with their bosses as farm workers. The work is
unskilled and the labor pool huge and mobile. Many farm workers are illegal
immigrants and therefore reluctant to report employers who do not pay the
minimum wage or Social Security or fail to provide water and toilets in the
field. Farm wages have been dropping for 20 years.

Because of the political power of big growers, the Federal Government has never
been particularly helpful to farm workers. But now Washington is taking two
actions that will give farm workers some much-needed protection. The Labor
Department's wage and hour division last month announced new rules for growers
who employ labor contractors to hire crews. The new rules will make it easier
for farm workers to hold growers responsible when the labor contractors cheat
them.

In addition, enforcement will be strengthened. The wage and hour division now
has only three farm labor inspectors in Florida, for example, and they also
enforce dozens of other laws. The lack of scrutiny gives employers license to
pay workers $2 or $3 an hour and cheat them of Social Security and overtime. The
division will add 200 workers in the seven states with the highest immigration:
New York, New Jersey, Illinois, Texas, Florida, California and Arizona. They
will focus on farm labor, garment manufacturing and janitorial services, which
employ large numbers of immigrants.

Congress authorized the added staff to reduce employers' incentives to hire
illegal immigrants. The staff will still be too small for adequate inspections,
but together with the new contracting rules, the increased presence will help
discourage growers from cheating their most vulnerable workers.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 8, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Van Stopped by Police Is Full of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: SEELEY, Calif., April 7


Officers who stopped a van in Imperial County, in the state's southeast corner,
discovered 29 illegal immigrants crowded inside, the California Highway Patrol
said today.

The van was pulled over about 1 A.M. on Sunday on Interstate 8 after an officer
saw a large number of people in the back of the vehicle. The immigrants were
returned to Mexico, said Vic Waggoner, assistant agent in charge of the United
States Border Patrol office in El Centro.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

The High Cost of Justice for All

BYLINE: By Lawrence J. Finnegan Jr.;  Lawrence J. Finnegan Jr. is a Justice of
the New York State Supreme Court.

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 704 words


I recently presided over a long and complex trial in Queens that reflects how
high the cost of justice for illegal immigrants has become. Three individuals,
all here illegally, were found guilty of kidnapping and of more than a dozen
rapes of one victim who was held hostage, blindfolded and in leg shackles for 10
days. This trial, which cost more than $1 million, was an enormous drain on
public funds and court personnel.

Like many trials involving illegal immigrants, this one took a long time --
seven weeks -- in part because it required interpreters. In another case,
involving kidnapping and extortion, we needed five interpreters, at $250 apiece
for half a day, because the defendants spoke five different dialects. That case,
which had eight defendants, each with his own public defender, took three
months. The defense lawyers had to delay all their other cases; more than 100
were postponed. In the end, the defendants were acquitted.

Usually, illegal immigrants who are charged with crimes are represented either
by Legal Aid or by court-appointed lawyers -- another way the public pays.
Because of the length and complexity of many of these cases, court-appointed
lawyers often receive a higher hourly rate than they would normally get.

Incarcerating illegal immigrants also is a burden on taxpayers. In New York
State, 5,000 have been convicted of crimes, many of them serious, since 1985. It
costs $26,000 a year to maintain just one of them in prison, which adds up to as
much as $130 million annually.

The situation is worse in California, where 15 percent of the state's prison
population, nearly 20,000 inmates, are illegal immigrants. Those felons cost the
state $375 million a year.

Illegal immigrants do not commit crimes in any greater proportion than people
who are born here. But while the New York State prison population of Americans
born in this country has increased by 98 percent in the last 10 years, the
number of foreign-born inmates has gone up by 234 percent. Of the foreign-born
inmates, 26 percent are behind bars for the most violent crimes, compared with
11 percent of the native-born prisoners. About a third of the foreigners in New
York prisons are illegal immigrants.

Legal and ethical decisions should never be based solely on cost. But the price
of justice must be considered when resources are limited. No compelling
constitutional principle mandates a trial for an illegal immigrant charged with
a crime.

Perhaps it would make sense to deport them before they get to court. Some people
will argue that a trial is a small price to pay before taking a harsh action
like deportation. But do we owe violent criminals, here illegally, the full
benefits of due process?

The United States has signed one treaty that allows illegal immigrants convicted
here to be sent to their country of origin. Only seven other countries are
signatories, including Mexico. Prisoners have to volunteer to be deported; fewer
than 200 a year do so. Though they must serve a minimum sentence in the United
States before being deported, their home country is not obligated to make them
serve the rest. Those convicted of violent crimes or serving life sentences
cannot opt for deportation.

When I gave the three men who kidnapped and raped their victim sentences ranging
from 34 to 194 years in prison, I insured that they will never be deported,
because they will be in prison until they die. At the same time, the victim was
able to take whatever solace she could in seeing these men severely punished.

Protecting the rights of victims may be a compelling argument against deporting
criminals. Yet there may be a way to balance the interests of victims and
taxpayers. The Federal Government, through treaties with other countries, could
provide for deportation of foreign criminals -- including those who have
committed violent offenses -- after they are convicted, perhaps with an
agreement that those countries would carry out the sentences imposed by our
courts.

The United States must encourage other countries to agree to a tougher treaty on
deporting criminals. And we must begin a national debate about whether those who
come here illegally are entitled to due process.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Neil Flewellen)

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Constitution Protects Illegal Immigrants, Too;
'The Most Despised'

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 62 words



To the Editor:

Justice Lawrence J. Finnegan Jr. (Op-Ed, April 26) should remember what Justice
Frank Murphy of the United States Supreme Court said in 1945: "Only by zealously
guarding the rights of the most humble, the most unorthodox and the most
despised among us can freedom flourish and endure in our land."

DANIEL M. KOWALSKI
Seattle, April 26, 1997

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Constitution Protects Illegal Immigrants, Too;
Harsh Rule

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 169 words



To the Editor:

Justice Lawrence J. Finnegan Jr. is wrong to argue that there is no
constitutional requirement to try an illegal immigrant charged with a crime
(Op-Ed, April 26). Perhaps he meant to say that immigrants should not be
convicted of crimes at all but merely deported upon allegations of criminal
conduct.

His suggestion is unnecessary. If a person is "illegally" present in the United
States, the Immigration and Naturalization Service does not need to prove or
allege criminal behavior to deport him. It must only prove he is not a citizen
and entered unlawfully or has no right to remain.

Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has ruled that the harsh sanction of
deportation is not the equivalent of criminal punishment. Therefore, a
deportation hearing takes place in the context of a civil proceeding and has
many fewer due process protections than does a criminal trial.

LENNI B. BENSON
New York, April 26, 1997

The writer is an associate professor at New York Law School.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Constitution Protects Illegal Immigrants, Too;
Playing to Fear

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 165 words



To the Editor:

The xenophobia underlying Justice Lawrence J. Finnegan Jr.'s April 26 Op-Ed
article is revealed by his disingenuous use of statistics. He states: "But while
the New York State prison population of Americans born in this country has
increased by 98 percent in the last 10 years, the number of foreign-born inmates
has gone up 234 percent."

The latter figure can be intended only to instill fear of "aliens." I am a
law-abiding, tax-paying, hard-working, foreign-born American citizen. Likewise,
many foreign-born prisoners are Americans.

Justice Finnegan cites the high cost of interpreters in trials of illegal
immigrants in an attempt to link language ability to citizenship. But Puerto
Ricans are citizens by birth whose native and official language is Spanish. One
would hope Justice Finnegan would not deny them due process.

BERTA E. HERNANDEZ-TRUYOL
Jamaica, Queens, April 26, 1997

The writer is a law professor at St. John's University.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 3, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Constitution Protects Illegal Immigrants, Too

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words



To the Editor:

Justice Lawrence J. Finnegan Jr. of the New York State Supreme Court has it all
wrong in "The High Cost of Justice for All" (Op-Ed, April 26) when he argues
that no compelling constitutional principle mandates a trial for an illegal
immigrant charged with a crime. The clearest possible constitutional authority
holds to the contrary. The Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments provide that no
person may be deprived of life, liberty or property without due process of law.

More than 100 years ago the United States Supreme Court spoke loud and clear in
the Wong Wing decision, holding unconstitutional a Federal law subjecting an
illegal Chinese immigrant to imprisonment at hard labor without a jury trial
before deportation. That case stands for the fundamental proposition that
immigrants are members of the constitutional community entitled to the full
procedural rights given to citizens.

When Justice Finnegan asks us to begin a national debate on whether noncitizens
are entitled to due process, he is really asking us to throw away those two
amendments and more than a century of constitutional law interpreting them to
include all people within our borders.

THEODORE RUTHIZER
New York, April 28, 1997

The writer teaches immigration law and policy at Columbia Law School.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 9, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton, at Costa Rica Talks, Gives Pledge on Immigrants

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 697 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Costa Rica, May 8


After meeting here today with the leaders of seven Central American and
Caribbean nations, President Clinton said he would seek to blunt a new law to
restrict illegal immigration and compel deportations.

Mr. Clinton defended the thrust of the law, but said he would suspend one
provision until Oct. 1 while he tries to persuade Congress to amend it.
Administration officials said the President did not respond to a proposal by
President Armando Calderon Sol of El Salvador that he seek an amnesty proposed
for some of the immigrants from this region.

At a summit meeting today intended to underscore the economic potential of this
newly democratic region, Central American leaders laid out their concerns about
the legislation.  Mr. Clinton signed it last September during the Presidential
election campaign, when illegal immigration emerged as a major issue.

The leaders said they feared the law would compel the return of hundreds of
thousands of immigrants that the United States originally admitted temporarily
as political refugees, before the cold war ended and wars subsided in Guatemala,
El Salvador and Nicaragua.

It is the success of democracy here that makes these immigrants vulnerable to
deportation.

Not only would their return strain job markets at home; it would deprive the
migrants' home countries of the hard currency they send back to their families.

Mr. Clinton said he shared the concern about deportations. "There will be no
mass deportations or targeting of citizens from any country," he said. "They
will have to be dealt with on a case-by-case basis."

But Doris Meissner, the Immigration and Naturalization Commissioner,
acknowledged that without Congressional action to amend the law, "the level of
removals from the United States will steadily increase."

She declined to specify what changes Mr. Clinton would seek, saying that could
jeopardize discussions with Congress, which have begun.

Under the law, Mr. Clinton is able to exempt only 4,000 of the now illegal
immigrants annually from deportation. It is that provision that he plans to
suspend.

Ms. Meissner estimated that the total population of such Central American
immigrants in the United States was "in the neighborhood of 300,000-plus" --
about 150,000 Salvadorans, 100,000 Guatemalans and 40,000 Nicaraguans. Those
immigrants account for only a fraction of the five million illegal immigrants
believed to be in the United States.

Under previous law, illegal immigrants were vulnerable to deportation. But
immigration judges had wide latitude to grant exemptions, latitude that the new
law restricts.

Administration officials said Mr. Clinton also assured the Mexicans during his
visit that he would seek to change a part of the law that would force illegal
immigrants to return home while they waited for legal status, which could take
years. That provision could affect many Mexicans, who are believed to account
for 40 percent of illegal immigrants in the United States.

Mr. Clinton had previously suspended the provision on deportations, which was to
take effect April 1, until August. He expressed confidence today that Congress
would agree to amend it, suggesting that the United States bore some
responsibility for the influx of immigrants because of its intervention in this
region during the cold war.

After the meeting, some leaders said they were pleased with what they had heard.
President Calderon Sol said, "There is time from now until September for a joint
initiative with the Congress and to awaken more awareness within the Congress
concerning this issue."

Leonel Fernandez Reyna, President of the Dominican Republic, said, "We
understand that each case will be handled individually and in a humane manner,
so we do think there will be a consideration." Mr. Fernandez attended elementary
and junior high schoool in New York City, holds a green card and intends to live
in the United States after serving as President, he said.

Mr. Clinton and the other leaders also agreed today on a parcel of modest law
enforcement and trade programs, including an agreement to permit airlines to
compete more freely for routes in the region.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 11, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Border Vigilantes

BYLINE: By TED CONOVER

SECTION: Section 6; Page 44; Column 1; Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 768 words


The California-Mexico border has never been a safe place. Illegal immigrants to
the United States face the perennial gantlet of harsh desert, Border Patrol and
unreliable "coyotes," whom they pay for help in crossing. Those whose homes are
near the line on the U.S. side must deal with constant incursions by strangers
who may simply be looking for work -- but who may intend to rob, burglarize or
something worse.

The situation is approaching a crisis in rural eastern San Diego County. Sixty
miles away from the city of San Diego, it's an area where until recently
ranchers didn't really mind the kind of trespassing that took place -- small
groups of Mexican workers who would close gates behind themselves and take only
a drink of water as they passed through. But politics suddenly changed that.
Operation Gatekeeper, a Clinton Administration initiative announced in 1994 to
choke the high-visibility stream of aliens across the border near San Diego, has
indeed been successful -- but mainly in moving the problem. Traffic is down near
the city, but up 3,000 percent at places like the Border Patrol station at
Campo, Calif., where arrests of illegal immigrants rose from 2,300 in 1994 to
more than 78,000 in 1996.

Lorna House, who lives alone on 20 acres a mile and a half from the border, says
the Mexicans she knew 20 years ago would arrive "two or three at a time -- they
would work awhile around here on the ranch. They taught us marvelous things,
like how to heat yucca cactus and make baskets from it." Now, though, she says
her property is strewn with garbage, clothes and human waste. "They've gotten
belligerent," she says of the illegals crossing her land. "I had 18 of them walk
by my little fenced-in yard yesterday, and they gave me this sneer and look and
kind of grin, like, 'You can't do anything.' " She won't leave the house without
a sidearm. "Part of our regular getting dressed is putting a gun on, which to
me, in the United States of America, should not be."

Not everyone seems upset about having to bear arms. House's neighbor Bob Maupin,
who maintains that he was arrested on his own land by Mexican soldiers
protecting a "meth lab," says smugglers have tried to run him down in their
trucks. Other vehicles have destroyed his fences. "We have cattle," he says.
"They don't care. These people are so blatantly contemptuous of us and our civil
rights."

In response, Maupin and several friends have started a campaign of citizen's
arrests. Dressed in camouflage fatigues, they carry semiautomatic rifles, their
own Vietnam-era seismic sensors and zip ties for handcuffing. "We get together
at night and make a game out of it, who can catch the most," he says. "If you
dress properly, they don't know who you are, so we get really, really good
cooperation." Always? "We live in an earthquake zone, and the last guy who got
in my face, the ground shook so hard it knocked him on his back, if you see what
I mean."

The arrests are legal, according to Deputy Sheriff Robert Novak. Once Maupin and
his friends -- Maupin says the Border Patrol agents call them "Bob's boys" --
have detained a group for trespassing, they call the Border Patrol. The male
migrants lie on their stomachs until the Border Patrol arrives; if they cause
trouble, Maupin says, they're handcuffed. Maupin says he never handcuffs women
or children.

The label of vigilante does not upset Maupin. "A vigilante is, by definition, a
citizen upholding the law in the absence of law enforcement. That's the way we
out here look at it," he says. Vigilantism has often had an ugly face along the
border, though. Near Douglas, Ariz., in the mid-70's, a man and his two sons
were charged with the gruesome torture-kidnapping of two Mexican immigrants; one
son was convicted. In 1995, in eastern San Diego County, according to six
immigrants, two men with rifles shot at, detained and beat them, though the
charges were never substantiated.

As I spoke on the phone to Lynn Shockey, who lives near House and Maupin, a
train whistle sounded in the background. An old track that runs across her land
may someday be refurbished and carry freight between the United States and
Mexico on a proposed route that winds back and forth across the border. The
train would have to slow at a paved road near her house, and Shockey predicts
that illegals will use the opportunity to climb aboard and hitch a ride into the
States, further increasing traffic. It's a project of Railtex Inc., a company
based in San Antonio. But Shockey and her neighbors call it, with more than a
hint of bitterness, "the NAFTA train."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: LAW AND DISORDER One of "Bob's boys" detains trespassers on
Maupin's ranch until the Border Patrol arrives. "These people are so blatantly
contemptuous of us and our civil rights," Maupin says. (pg. 45); BORDER PATROL
Maupin explains to the Border Patrol where migrants crossed his property. NO
X-ING A dead coyote in plain view on Lynn Shockey's property is meant to deter
the guides, or "coyotes," who lead hopeful Mexicans into the States. ARMS AND
THE WOMAN Lorna House relies on herself for protection against increasingly
"belligerant" illegal aliens. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD BIGELOW/BLACK STAR, FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 27, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Must Do Right by Immigrant Children

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 196 words


To the Editor:

Bob Dole's opposition to spending tax dollars to educate the children of illegal
immigrants (news article, June 20) and a June 19 letter on the same topic go
against the 1989 United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It was
signed last year by President Clinton but was blocked from moving to full Senate
ratification by Jesse Helms, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.

Those who trumpet the dangers of even legal immigration should learn that in
Canada, for example, one in five citizens was born elsewhere. The Washington
Post reports that tests for drivers' licenses in Toronto are given in 12
languages. Social services are also multilingual. Such diversity neither harms
national unity nor produces economic disaster.

Here in the United States, projected overpopulation is not the problem. Rather,
the problem is the denial of rights not just to immigrant children but to
native-born children.  Senator Helms needs to loosen his xenophobic grip on the
United Nations Convention and insure to all American children, immigrant and
native-born, the rights that they deserve.

KENNETH J. RUMMENIE
Buffalo, June 20, 1996

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 5, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Violence at Demonstrations on Immigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 17;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 180 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 4


Rival Independence Day demonstrations on illegal immigration erupted violently
today when protesters beat one another with fists, picket signs and filled soda
cans in front of the Federal building near the campus of the University of
California at Los Angeles.

"It was a combination of factors -- the heat, the strong feelings on both sides
of the Proposition 187 issue," said Lieut. Anthony Alba of the Police
Department. "Once we got a sufficient number of officers here, we were able to
respond to the situation."

Lieutenant Alba was referring to a voter-approved ballot issue intended to
severely restrict assistance for illegal immigrants.

At least six people were hurt in the morning confrontation, said Jim Wells, a
Fire Department spokesman. One person was hospitalized. The nature of the
injuries was not disclosed.

Proposition 187, which was approved by voters in 1994, called for prohibiting
illegal immigrants from receiving public education, nonemergency health care and
social welfare services. The plan has not taken effect because of court
challenges.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Needs a Major Overhaul

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 18;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 237 words


To the Editor:

Your "Failures Without Penalties" series (July 7 and 8), on the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, exposes one facet of a spreading agency-wide scandal.
The service's inability to hold anyone accountable for the riot last year at the
Esmor detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., and other incidents suggest an agency
out of control:

* When service managers deceived a Congressional task force in 1995 on the
actual numbers of illegal immigrants being detained in Miami, they committed
possible criminal actions. By destroying E-mail evidence to obstruct a
Department of Justice investigation, they compounded their malfeasance.

* At San Diego, border patrol agents complain that they must misrepresent the
number of illegal immigrants apprehended to make a costly program called
Operation Gatekeeper appear successful in reducing the number of illegal
border-crossings.

These incidents merit Congressional inquiry and grand jury investigations. At
the least, they show the need for a major overhaul of a troubled agency.
Congress may need to separate immigrant benefits (refugee status, grants of
asylum and naturalization) from border-control enforcement. When a nation fails
to enforce its laws, one or the other must change.

JAMES H. WALSH
Garrett Park, Md., July 9, 1996

The writer was an associate general counsel for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, 1983-94.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 14, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Union Alleges Border Patrol Faked Results In Crackdown

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 21;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, July 13


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is investigating the United States
Border Patrol operations in San Diego after accusations that supervisors there
falsified reports to make a crackdown on illegal immigrants appear more
successful than it was.

The inquiry, which began on July 1, was ordered by Commissioner Doris M.
Meissner of the immigration service after officials of the union representing
Border Patrol officers asserted that illegal immigrants had been returned to
Mexico without being counted to make it seem that crossings had been reduced in
some areas.

The union officials also asserted that agency intelligence reports had been
culled of negative information that could reflect poorly on a 20-month effort to
stem illegal immigration at the San Diego border, called Operation Gatekeeper.
The Border Patrol is the enforcement unit of the immigration service.

"The Administration wants to prove that Gatekeeper is a success," T. J. Bonner,
president of the San Diego-based National Border Patrol Council, the union, said
in a telephone interview this week. "And when they didn't see the apprehensions
of illegal aliens go down, they had to bring up the smoke and mirrors."

Mr. Bonner, who says his accusations were based on conversations with dozens of
agents in the past year, said supervisors violated agency policy by ordering
thousands of migrants back to Mexico without a record of their capture. He
alleges that supervisors excised agents' accounts from intelligence reports
indicating that they had been overwhelmed with illegal immigrants in areas
considered under control.

The immigration service sent five investigators from its internal audit office
to San Diego to look into the accusations at the request of the sector's chief
agent, Johnny Williams, who read about the union officials' statements in a
newspaper, The North County Times, last month.

The investigators, promising confidentiality, are asking agents with knowledge
of any improper behavior to come forward. Neither the Border Patrol in San Diego
nor the immigration service would comment on the status of the inquiry.

"The Commissioner made it clear that she will not tolerate improper conduct,"
said Eric C. Andrus, a spokesman for the immigration service.

If true, Mr. Bonner's allegations could call into question the effectiveness of
the buildup in the agency's San Diego sector, which has been praised for cutting
the flow of illegal immigrants. At Imperial Beach, the western-most station of
the sector, the Border Patrol had said that apprehensions were down 65 percent
in the last nine months from the same period in the fiscal year 1994, to 61,000
from 134,000.

It is there, Mr. Bonner said, that most of the fraud is taking place. He said
that by under-counting aliens at Imperial Beach, Border Patrol officials could
avoid having to admit failing to control the frontier in an area where much of
the increased strength is deployed.

Both the Border Patrol and immigration service vehemently deny that the results
are an illusion.

"These allegations don't in any way tarnish the success of Gatekeeper," Mr.
Andrus said. "Its effectiveness can be measured in the life of residents along
the border who can now have backyard barbecues."

Border Patrol figures show that migrants are crossing the frontier in the
mountains and deserts east of San Diego, which the Border Patrol says is
favorable terrain for capture. Over all, apprehensions of people illegally
crossing the border are up 1 percent in the San Diego sector during the 20
months of the buildup.

"It's no longer a 15-second dash to a bus stop or shopping center," said Mark
Moody, a spokesman for the Border Patrol in San Diego. "In East San Diego
County, you have what could amount to a three-hour trek to a pick-up point, and
then you have to get through our checkpoint."

The investigation at San Diego comes just three weeks after a Justice Department
report concluded senior officials of an I.N.S. detention center in Miami had
misled a visiting Congressional delegation. Officials hid the center's
overcrowded condition by releasing 58 detainees and sending 45 others to a
county jail and an immigration center in New Orleans.

Mr. Bonner said evidence of fraud would be difficult for the agency to uncover
in San Diego. He said that supervisors' orders were given verbally, not written
on paper and that agents fear punishment if they admit to being aware of deceit.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 15, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Who's a Nincompoop on Illegal Immigration?;
The Education 'Magnet'

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 244 words


To the Editor:

George J. Borjas ("Punish Employers, Not Children," Op-Ed, July 11) castigates
Congress for its preoccupation with an amendment that would enable states to bar
children of illegal immigrants from public schools.

That legislators are embroiled in this sorry debate is testament to the
political power of the myth that large numbers of illegal immigrants are lured
here by the "magnet" of free public education and other social services. Mr.
Borjas's own writings have contributed to this myth, and he persists in arguing
that cuts in education benefits "may well" reduce illegal entries and induce
illegal immigrants to return to their home countries.

No evidence supports this theory of deterrence. But members of Congress, loath
to offend business owners and individual homeowners who use immigrant labor,
have seized upon it as a rationale for pursing purely symbolic immigration
control measures like the public education exclusion.

Having fed the climate of public opinion in which such wrong-headed, fiscally
counterproductive measures can flourish, Professor Borjas and the politicians
who have embraced his ideas now stand aside from the conflagration and chide
Congress for failing to pursue alternative remedies. Such criticism is both too
little and much too late.

WAYNE A. CORNELIUS
La Jolla, Calif., July 11, 1996
The writer is research director at the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies, U. of
California, San Diego.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Citizenship Proposal Faces Obstacle in the Constitution

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A;  Page 13;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1103 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 6


In proposing to deny United States citizenship to children born in this country
to illegal immigrants, members of the Republican Platform Committee are
challenging a pillar of constitutional law erected nearly 130 years ago.

On Monday, a subcommittee of the platform committee endorsed a proposal to
abolish the guarantee of citizenship extended by the 14th Amendment to "all
persons born or naturalized in the United States." The full committee is
expected to endorse the proposal this week.

The proposal comes at a time when anti-immigrant sentiment appears to be
growing. The welfare bill passed last week by Congress curtails a wide variety
of Federal benefits for immigrants, even those legally present in the United
States. A separate measure moving through Congress would crack down on illegal
immigration and allow states to deny a free public education to children who are
illegal aliens.

The Supreme Court has described citizenship as the most basic of all rights, a
"priceless possession." But whether illegal immigrants come to this country to
guarantee citizenship for their children is hotly debated.

Many Republicans say the fact that children born here to illegal immigrants are
citizens makes it easier for their parents to obtain immigrant visas and
citizenship at a later date. Hispanic groups and other advocates for immigrants
say there is little evidence that "birthright citizenship" serves as a lure.

The Republican proposal is modeled on a recommendation from a panel created by
Speaker Newt Gingrich. The panel, the Congressional Task Force on Immigration
Reform, said in June 1995 that Congress should "end automatic birthright
citizenship for children born within the borders of the United States to illegal
immigrant parents." The task force was composed of 47 Republican lawmakers and 7
Democrats.

The Clinton Administration opposes this change. The Acting Solicitor General,
Walter Dellinger, said it would undermine a bedrock principle of constitutional
law and create "a permanent caste of aliens, generation after generation born in
America but never to be among its citizens."

The task force was headed by Representative Elton Gallegly, Republican of
California, who has been trying for five years to abolish the citizenship
provided automatically to American-born children of illegal immigrants.
Republicans say that 100,000 babies are born to illegal aliens each year in
California alone.

Mr. Gallegly said the Republican proposal would deter illegal immigration.

"Our current law encourages widespread illegal immigration and costs American
taxpayers billions of dollars a year," he said. The 14th Amendment was written
to guarantee citizenship for freed slaves, he said, not for the children of
immigrants.

To be sure, a primary purpose of the 14th Amendment was to overrule the Dred
Scott decision, in which the Supreme Court had held that neither blacks who were
"imported into this country and sold as slaves" nor their descendants could ever
become citizens of the United States.

But when Congress was debating the 14th Amendment in 1866, it considered the
likelihood that the words would apply to children of immigrants too. And some
lawmakers approved of that idea.

During that debate, Senator Edgar Cowan of Pennsylvania objected to the
citizenship clause of the 14th Amendment. "Is the child of the Chinese immigrant
in California a citizen?" he asked on the Senate floor.

Senator John Conness of California said the answer should be "yes."

"The children of all parentage whatever, born in California, should be regarded
and treated as citizens of the United States, entitled to equal civil rights
with other citizens," Mr. Conness said.

The Constitution as written did not define who was a United States citizen. The
Founding Fathers and their contemporaries were citizens of individual states,
but there was no definition of United States citizenship in the Constitution
until the 14th Amendment was ratified in 1868. It was the Republican Party that
pushed the 14th Amendment and other Reconstruction measures through Congress.

The meaning of the citizenship clause has been clear since 1898, when the
Supreme Court held that a child born in San Francisco to Chinese parents was a
United States citizen, even though the parents were prohibited by the Chinese
Exclusion Act from ever becoming citizens.

The proposal drafted this week by the Platform Committee says that the
Republican Party supports "a constitutional amendment or constitutionally valid
legislation declaring that children born in the United States of parents
illegally present are not automatically citizens." Constitutional scholars say
that an amendment would almost certainly be needed, and that legislation would
be inadequate to make such a profound change.

Hispanic groups and other critics of the Republican proposal say it punishes
innocent children for the conduct of their parents.

In an interview today, Cecilia Munoz, deputy vice president of the National
Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights organization, said: "The immigration
debate has reached a point where Republicans are apparently prepared to attack
newborns. This proposal would create a class of stateless people in the United
States. It would require hospitals to check the citizenship status of every
woman giving birth. That's the only way you can determine which babies are going
to be denied citizenship."

Mr. Gallegly said "a growing number of women illegally enter the United States
for the sole purpose of giving birth to an American citizen." Ms. Munoz said she
knew of no evidence to support that contention.

Barbara Jordan, a former chairwoman of the United States Commission on
Immigration Reform, criticized the proposal a month before she died earlier this
year.

"To deny birthright citizenship is to derail the engine of American liberty,"
Ms. Jordan told Congress in December.

Immigration has been a divisive issue for the Republican Party in the last few
years. Some Republicans, like Representative Lamar Smith of Texas and Senator
Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, have pushed legislation to reduce legal immigration.
But free-market conservatives like Jack F. Kemp and William J. Bennett oppose
such restrictions, saying legal immigrants contribute to economic growth, start
new businesses, create jobs and make good Americans.

Political scientists say that party platforms are often a reliable guide to how
Presidential candidates will perform if elected. In many cases, they say,
Presidents try to carry out the promises they made while running for office.


LOAD-DATE: August 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 12, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

G.O.P. Plank Errs on Immigrant Citizenship

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 333 words


To the Editor:

Our 1985 book, "Citizenship Without Consent," has long been cited by some
Republican platform committee members as a source for the committee's proposal
to deny citizenship to children of illegal immigrants (news article, Aug. 7). In
fact, our book does not justify the proposal. We strongly disagree with it.

We argued that the framers of the Constitution's citizenship clause never
addressed the issue of birthright citizenship for illegal immigrants because
Federal law did not then limit immigration. In trying to discern what the
framers of the 14th Amendment would have decided, we considered their
understanding of the deeper consensual principles that they believed should
shape democratic citizenship, as revealed in their debates and in the exceptions
to birthright citizenship on which they insisted.

We concluded that the clause neither required nor barred birthright citizenship
for illegal immigrants. It left Congress free to decide this question as a
matter of policy.

On this policy question, we considered arguments on both sides and concluded
that eliminating birthright citizenship for illegal immigrants could only be a
plausible reform if certain preconditions were met. The most important
precondition -- that illegal migration be effectively controlled, thereby
minimizing the number of children growing up in the United States without the
protection of citizenship -- is even further from being met today, when the
illegal population has swelled to more than four million.

Some members of the platform committee may be motivated by election-year
politics, others by good principles that are misconceived and misapplied in this
particular case. We continue to believe -- as we think the framers would -- that
Congress must choose, and that America chooses best when it chooses to be
inclusive.

PETER H. SCHUCK
ROGERS M. SMITH
New Haven, Aug. 8, 1996

The writers are professors of, respectively, law and political science at Yale.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 18, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Keeps a Wary Eye on Its Newark Office

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN and CLIFFORD LEVY

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 43;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1393 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, Aug. 15


When agents from the Immigration and Naturalization Service's office here
swooped down on a private cleaning company at Newark International Airport in
March 1995, they detained scores of illegal immigrants, recovering a trove of
more than 60 fraudulently issued green cards and other work papers.

But the striking success of the raid was quickly tempered by a sobering
realization: at least some of those faked documents appeared to have been
smuggled out of the immigration service's own office in Newark, officials said.

That discovery ultimately helped lead to the indictment late last month of the
third-ranking I.N.S. official in New Jersey, who was charged with accepting
bribes in return for giving work papers to a man who used them to bring
immigrants into the country illegally.

The indictment of the official, John F. Lonergan, was the latest blow to an
office that has often been roiled by accusations of corruption and mismanagement
in recent years, and that remains the focus of an investigation by the United
States Attorney here.

In fact, Mr. Lonergan first came under the scrutiny of Federal prosecutors as
early as 1983, when he was entangled in an earlier bribery scandal at the
office. He was not charged at that time, and continued to rise through the
agency.

The problems at the office underscore what some immigration experts and
law-enforcement officials maintain are lax controls at the immigration service,
both in Newark and nationwide. The I.N.S. has long had a reputation as one of
the most poorly run Federal agencies, with a history of corruption.

I.N.S. officials in Newark declined to be interviewed for this article.

Greg Gagne, a spokesman for the agency in Washington, acknowledged that the
Newark office has been troubled, and that it is being revamped by the agency.
This month, the office's director, Warren Lewis, was replaced by a high-ranking
official from headquarters in Washington.

But Mr. Gagne cautioned that, "We cannot say there is a quick fix."

"We are handling a very, very valuable commodity," Mr. Gagne said, "which is
access to this country. Those who are handling that on our end are susceptible
to people trying to find ways to bend the rules."

The office here is one of the five busiest I.N.S. offices in the country. Last
year it reviewed the documents of 1.8 million travelers, most of them at Newark
International Airport, where the number of international flights has jumped in
the last decade.

That growth has increased the burdens on the office, leaving it more vulnerable
to problems.

Last year, it faced criticism after a disturbance broke out at its detention
center for illegal immigrants in nearby Elizabeth. Senior immigration service
officials in Washington later determined that the Newark office had poorly
supervised Esmor Correctional Services, a private company that it had hired to
run the center.

The detention center was closed and was scheduled to reopuen next month, but the
agency recently announced that it was delaying the reopening because it needed
more time to iron out the troubles that had occurred under Esmor.

Mr. Lewis, who was removed last week as the office's director, had been brought
in two years ago after the previous director, James Pomeroy, resigned.

Law-enforcement officials now say that they had begun an investigation into Mr.
Pomeroy before he left the agency. The inquiry appears to have ended after he
stepped down, and he was not charged with wrongdoing.

Mr. Pomeroy denied in a telephone interview that he had ever been under
investigation and said he had not done anything improper. After 33 years with
the agency, he said, he felt it was time to retire. "I don't know what to say,"
Mr. Pomeroy said. "No one has ever questioned me or my deputy."

In another incident, an I.N.S. agent in Newark pleaded guilty last March in
Federal Court here to accepting a $4,000 bribe in return for an agency template
that could be used to manufacture the papers needed to obtain green cards and
other documents.

Several immigration lawyers in New Jersey complained about the disarray in the
office, asserting that clerks often lost documents and that their superiors were
unresponsive. Some lawyers said they suspected that clerks were giving special
favors to immigration consultants: people who guide immigrants through the
agency's tortuous bureaucracy.

"Perhaps the same person who might deal with me in a very difficult way may be
very friendly with some of these nonlawyers," said Robert Frank, a prominent
immigration lawyer in Newark. "That raises some questions in my mind about why
they are so friendly."

The immigration service is an arm of the Justice Department. Yet the
department's senior officials had so little trust in the Newark office that in
the weeks before the raid on Lisbon Cleaners at Newark Airport, some senior
officials in the Newark office were not told about the plans, officials said.

Investigators said the secrecy stemmed from a fear among some senior I.N.S.
officials that someone in the Newark office had been tipping off targets of
raids.

The raid at Lisbon Cleaners spurred Federal investigators to step up their
inquiry at the office. They soon focused on several high-level employees,
including Mr. Lonergan, 49, of Belmar, N.J. Since 1988, he had been assistant
district director for examinations, which gave him an important role: overseeing
the processing of immigration documents.

A longtime informant, Nagy Khairallah, told prosecutors that he had often paid
bribes to Mr. Lonergan in return for documents that allowed him to bring illegal
immigrants into the country, according to the Federal indictment. Mr. Khairallah
said that for more than four years, he had given Mr. Lonergan an array of gifts,
from Oriental carpets to construction materials to a vacation in Aruba.

Mr. Lonergan pleaded not guilty to a six-count indictment in Federal Court. His
lawyer, Dennis Durkin, did not return repeated phone calls seeking comment on
the charges.

Faith S. Hochberg, the United States Attorney in Newark, declined to comment.

This was not the first time Mr. Lonergan had come to the attention of the United
States Attorney.

In 1983, two senior investigators at the office and two immigration lawyers
either pleaded guilty or were convicted in a bribery scheme involving
immigration documents. One of the investigators, Donald Duda, was a partner with
Mr. Lonergan and a third immigration service official in a corporation that
owned a bar near the I.N.S. office in downtown Newark.

Mr. Duda was convicted of accepting money from the immigration lawyers, which he
used to keep the money-losing bar afloat. At his trial, one of the lawyers
testified that on one occasion, she went to the I.N.S. office to give a bribe --
an envelope filled with cash -- to Mr. Duda, but because he was not there,
handed it to Mr. Lonergan.

Mr. Lonergan then told her to bring it to the bar, the lawyer, Cynthia Siwulec,
testified.

Mr. Lonergan denied at the trial that that had ever happened. He also said he
had never personally accepted money from the lawyers and that he did not know
that Mr. Duda was funneling money from the lawyers into the bar's accounts,
which Mr. Lonergan helped oversee.

Mr. Lonergan was not charged in that case.

Immigration experts said the turmoil at the Newark office underscores how poor
management can expose the agency to an array of problems, including corruption.
Some immigration documents, for example, are worth more than $25,000 to a
smuggler, so the temptations are great.

"When you look at the immigration service, you have a huge opportunity for
corruption, and the amounts of money that are being paid out are incredible,"
said Walter P. Connery, a former head of the agency office in Washington that
investigates corruption.

Mr. Connery, who retired from the service in 1992, contended that it had little
control over key documents. He said that because there was no effective system
for monitoring records, it was often difficult to figure out who had issued a
document like a green card, or stamped a passport.

The frayed controls also help prevent the I.N.S. from keeping terrorists or
criminals from entering the country through places like Newark.

"Nobody knows who does anything," he said. "The whole system needs a top to
bottom overhaul."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 27, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Aliens Seized in Paris Church Are Released From Detention

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 694 words

DATELINE: VINCENNES, France, Aug. 26


Almost all of the 210 illegal immigrants from Africa thrown out of a Paris
church and arrested by the police on Friday were free today after official
attempts to deport most of them bogged down on technical legal grounds.

Ten men who had been on a hunger strike for 52 days in support of the group's
demands for official permission to stay here returned, along with scores of
other men, women and children, to a theater complex where the group had stayed
before in the Bois de Vincennes, a park on the eastern edge of Paris, to await
the outcome of deportation proceedings against 94 of them.

Over the weekend, magistrates refused to let the immigrants continue to be kept
in custody in Vincennes pending expulsion because the police had improperly
prepared warrants for them.

The immigration authorities themselves allowed the hunger strikers to go free
from the military hospitals where they had been taken on Friday, and all of them
began taking nourishment again on Sunday.

"A great muddle," the leftist daily Liberation wrote in summing up the outcome.
It was a paradox. President Jacques Chirac and Prime Minister Alain Juppe said
the conservative Government had no choice but to enforce strict laws intended to
discourage foreigners from sneaking into the country.

But at the end of the day, most of the Africans were back in the limbo of
clandestine immigration with hundreds of thousands of others from former French
colonies who trickled in before immigration clampdowns in 1994.

Increasingly, the illegal immigrants have had difficultly finding employers who
would hire them without immigration papers -- a felony under French law as it is
in the United States.

"These people have committed no crimes against people or property, and they are
not trying to hide here," said Ariane Mnouchkine, the director of the theater
complex that has now given the group temporary shelter for the second time in
five months.

Lassana Ulibali, 28, a single man from Mauritania who was in the Church of St.
Bernard de la Chapelle when the police raided it on Friday morning, talked in
the bright sunshine outside the theater about what to do next.

"The police threw all our clothes and belongings away after they took us out of
the church," he said. "They gave me until Sept. 12 to leave the country or face
expulsion. But I've been here since 1990 and I have nothing to go back to."

Doro Traore, who came to France eight years ago from Mauritania and stayed after
his application for asylum was rejected, said he and a fellow refugee from St.
Bernard's had been freed by the police on Saturday in a forest about 25 miles
outside Paris.

"So this is French democracy," Mr. Traore said he retorted before making his way
back by hitchhiking. He added that the French people now understood what the
protest had been about.

Four of the "sans-papiers," or "those without papers," as they are called here
now that the Government's firmness has made them a cause celebre with the
leftist opposition and human rights groups, were flown to Mali over the weekend
in a French military plane that was also returning 52 other illegal African
immigrants against their will.

A national poll taken by the Ipsos Opinion organization for the daily Le Monde
on Saturday found that 53 percent of respondents disapproved of the police raid
on the church, but there was an even split on opinions of how the Government had
handled the entire affair, with 46 percent in favor and 46 percent against.

What the muddled outcome showed, Le Monde said, was that the use of force in
high-profile cases like St. Bernard's did not solve the underlying problem,
which is that hundreds of thousands of people from poor, undeveloped parts of
the world will continue to find ways to come to the rich, developed part no
matter how hard the authorities try to keep them out.

"I'm not for the borders being kept wide open for anybody who wants to come in,"
Miss Mnouchkine said today, "and I hope for a quick resolution of the problem of
the people who are here. What we have is a genuine crisis on immigration, and we
need some real reflection about how to deal with it."



LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 28, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

In Tijuana, Border Crackdown Hurts

BYLINE: By VERNE G. KOPYTOFF

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 771 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, Aug. 25


For years, thousands of migrants have worked up voracious appetites and
sometimes a night-time shiver in the hillside slums and dusty fields along the
border fence here, as they wait hours and often days to sneak through the scrub
into San Diego.

Scores of peddlers work the prime border-hopping hours of dusk to dawn in
Tijuana, catering to hungry migrants from wooden carts and car trunks with bean
burritos, beef tortillas and pork sausage. When the weather is foul, vendors
march up trash-filled gullies, just feet inside Mexico, selling second-hand
sweaters and rain ponchos made from plastic garbage bags.

Until recently, business prospered and the clientele seemed unlimited. But in a
reflection of recent efforts by the United States to stem the flow of illegal
immigration here, many merchants along this stretch of the border say their
fortunes are now lagging.

Teresa Gonzales, who operates a market in a tent pitched in the dirt against the
frontier wall, once sold cases of candy and gallons of hot cinnamon tea every
week. But now, lulls between customers are so frequent that Mrs. Gonzales spends
part of each evening watching the Border Patrol vans and helicopters scour
nearby ravines for illegal aliens.

"Business is so slow that we are thinking of applying for a permit to sell goat
and lamb meat near the big supermarket," Mrs. Gonzales said, standing in the
lantern light among her shanty's shelves. She said sales had declined 75 percent
during the last two years.

The dearth of customers is a consequence of a 22-month Border Patrol operation
near San Diego called Gatekeeper. The Border Patrol added hundreds of agents,
ground sensors and night-vision equipment in an effort to turn back the
thousands of migrants massed each night along the nation's most porous stretch
of frontier.

In the last six months, apprehensions of illegal aliens from the Pacific Ocean
to Otay Mesa, 14 miles inland, have declined 36 percent from the same period
last year, to 160,866.

"This is probably the single largest accomplishment in the Border Patrol's
history," said Johnny N. Williams, chief patrol agent of the San Diego sector.
"We've changed the thought process of people who have been using this corridor
for years."

Some of that success, however, is being challenged. In July, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service began an investigation of Border Patrol operations in San
Diego after accusations that supervisors there falsified records to make the
crackdown on illegal immigrants appear more successful than it was.

And in any case, pressure by the Border Patrol at San Diego is forcing migrants
to the east, in the rugged mountains and high deserts of rural San Diego County
and Arizona.

The Border Patrol says the difficult back country journey and smuggling fees of
roughly $500 deter many would-be border-crossers. But Wayne A. Cornelius,
research director at the Center for United States-Mexican Studies at the
University of California in San Diego, said the flow of illegal immigrants is
like a balloon, "You squeeze in one place, it expands in another."

On a recent night in Tijuana, in an isolated field behind a factory on the
outskirts of town, a group of a dozen migrants huddled in the dark, occasionally
walking up to a battered pick-up truck parked in the dirt where a man was
cooking meals on a portable gas stove.

Carlos, a 20-year-old migrant who would not disclose his last name, approached
the truck and paid four pesos (75 cents) for an orange soda.  He stood in the
glow of a fluorescent light powered by a car battery and spoke of returning to
his job as a painter in Van Nuys, Calif., his month spent visiting relatives in
the coastal city of Mazatlan, and the strategy of eluding the Border Patrol.

"I'm hungry right now," Carlos said, "but I really don't want to eat because if
you get full and you want to cross it is a liability for running fast."

Carlos said he was caught by agents the night before and deported. In contrast,
he entered the United States without a hitch two years ago from the same
location.

Ironically, many of the peddlers who work just yards from the border have never
ventured onto United States soil. Ramon A. Leal, who sold Carlos the soda,
dreams of finding work in California, but his wife is too frightened to attempt
the journey.

In lieu of immigrating, he gets satisfaction from helping others enter the
United States. Asked if he had any remorse for assisting in the violation of
American immigration law, he gave an emphatic "No," adding, "I see this job as
helping people to find prosperity in the United States."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Mexico highlighting Tijuana

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

August 25-31;
The California Cutoff

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 2;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 161 words


Gov. Pete Wilson of California said he was simply applying the law of the land
when he ordered state agencies and colleges last week to stop doing anything
that might help illegal immigrants. The new Federal welfare bill enacted on Aug.
22 made any foreigner "who is not a qualified alien" ineligible for all but a
handful of public benefits.

But in seeking some political benefit of his own from Washington's law, Mr.
Wilson also ordered California's employees to verify the immigration status of
the people they serve. In a state with some two million illegal immigrants and
many more legal ones, it will be a task fraught with complications.

Advocacy groups, which have already blocked the implementation of Proposition
187, a measure to cut off benefits to illegal immigrants, said they were
confident they could stop the Governor in court -- at least until Attorney
General Janet Reno issues rules on how the checking is to be done.   TIM GOLDEN

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 9, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Huddled Masses in the Schools

BYLINE: By Frank Padavan;   Frank Padavan, a Republican, represents northeastern
Queens in the New York State Senate.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 17;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

DATELINE: ALBANY


New York City's students went back to school this week, taking their seats in
overcrowded classrooms -- and in closets and locker rooms and spaces carved out
of auditoriums. What is to blame for the congestion? You need not look much
further than the huge and continuing increase in the population of immigrant
students.

In the past 10 years, school enrollment has soared from 850,000 to 1.06 million,
a rise of 200,000. When classes began on Wednesday, the system counted 134,875
students who had entered the United States in just the past three years.

The Board of Education has long been aware of this mounting crisis. Three years
ago, at hearings I conducted in the State Senate, Robert Tobias, director of
strategic planning, projected that 383 schools would have to be built by 2003,
at a cost of $10 billion, to accommodate the expected rise in immigrants. At the
time, only 25 schools were under construction.

Immigration is a national problem, of course, with enormous local consequences.
Yet the response from the Federal Government has been virtually nonexistent.
Congress, which has never moved aggressively to combat illegal immigration,
recently decreed that legal immigration should remain at its historically high
levels. It is unlikely to pass a bill allowing states to withhold public
education for illegal immigrants; and even if it did, it is most unlikely that
President Clinton would sign such legislation.

I do not advocate pulling children out of public schools, regardless of where
they were born. But Congress should at least recognize its responsibility to
provide financial aid to New York City and the handful of urban centers that
have been bearing most of the burden of immigration, both legal and illegal. To
date, efforts to compel Congress to share the costs have been uniformly
unsuccessful. In lawsuits brought on behalf of New York and other states, the
Federal courts have held that Congress has no constitutional obligation to
contribute to immigration-related local costs; conversely, the courts have said
that while Congress can deny immigrants financial support, New York State
cannot.

President Clinton has recently proposed a change that would allow states to
redirect Federal education dollars from programs to new classrooms. The change
could have a major impact on New York City's overcrowding, without imposing a
significant burden on Federal taxpayers.

But first, the city must recognize the need. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani must
acknowledge that the immigration of the 1990's has added to the city's burden,
especially in education. Gov. George E. Pataki should join the Mayor and let
Congressional leaders know that New York City needs this kind of help. Politics
should not be a factor here, since the affected cities and states represent a
bipartisan collection.

New York City's members of Congress must recognize that the quality of life
enjoyed by the immigrants they represent will be determined by the caliber of
their education. And not just immigrants: all neighborhoods, all groups are
imperiled by overcrowding in the schools. So is the city's ability to contribute
productive employees to the work force. In the end, the region's economic future
is at risk. The stakes are too high to ignore.

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 11, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Standing Up for Immigrants

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 91 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY


The Jersey City Council passed a resolution Wednesday instructing city workers
not to turn in or arrest immigrant residents, legal or otherwise. The "safe
haven" resolution flouts new Federal guidelines requiring workers to notify
immigration authorities about illegal immigrants who seek services like police
protection, hospital care and public education. Hudson County's welfare
director, Carol Ann Wilson, has instructed her staff not to turn in illegal
immigrants. Jersey City's measure is not binding and does not supersede Federal
law.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 11, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Paper Trail From Jail To Liberty

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 764 words


THIS is the weekend for remembering Columbus's coming to America by ship in
1492. Wu Lu Zhong also came to America by ship, five centuries later, but
instead of having a day named after him he landed in prison for three years. His
mistake was to live in an age when immigration policies are not as lax as they
were for those who sailed on the Spanish monarchy's tab.

Mr. Wu was among the 286 Chinese illegal immigrants who packed themselves in
1993 into the infamous smuggling ship called the Golden Venture, only to fall
200 yards short of the New World when the freighter ran aground off the Rockaway
Peninsula in Queens.

You recall that tale of desperation and heartbreak. Ten men died trying to reach
shore. A few made it to shore and escaped. Thirty others were granted asylum,
and nearly 50 were released for one reason or another, many moving on to other
countries. But most, nearly 200 people, were either deported to China or packed
off to jails around this country, which had become fed up with illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Wu went to the York County Prison in southern Pennsylvania, where local
officials have made a cottage industry of boarding prisoners under a contract
with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Now his odyssey has taken a new
turn, suggesting that the Golden Venturers will make their mark on the United
States for some time to come.

ON Tuesday evening, he left his cell a free man, thanks to an I.N.S. decision
reclassifying him as an "alien of extraordinary ability." As a skilled artist in
Chinese paper sculpture, he was deemed to have a gift that can enrich America's
cultural life.

He is the first Golden Venture passenger to receive this special designation.
Indeed, three immigration lawyers working in his behalf -- John Assadi, Jun Wang
and Helen Morris -- say he may well be the first person ever to earn this status
from prison.

"I feel elated," Mr. Wu, a slender man of 34, said yesterday in his lawyers'
office near Penn Station. Dressed in a borrowed sport shirt and jeans, he had
traveled by bus from York to New York, marveling at the towns he whizzed past.
"I feel," he said, as Mr. Wang translated, "that living conditions are much
better here than in China." Obviously, a master of understatement.

With his new status, he may apply for permanent residence, the coveted green
card. If he gets it, and there is every reason to assume he will, he will be
able to bring over his wife and young son from Fujian Province in China. More
broadly, because his is a test case, success could pave the way to an American
life for many of the 45 Golden Venture Chinese who remain in York County Prison.

LIKE Mr. Wu, once a set designer for the Fujian Operatic Company, they have
become skilled in the Chinese folk art of paper cutting. They have created
thousands of pieces of art: remarkable sculptures of eagles, dragons, pagodas
and ships, remarkable not just for their high quality but for the fact that they
were crafted painstakingly out of scraps of toilet paper, magazines and threads
from prison towels. For dyes, the prisoners sometimes used tea and grape juice.
It took a while before prison officials trusted them with scissors, and then
only under close supervision.

"But the guards gave us full support," Mr. Wu said. So did a long line of museum
curators, who wrote letters to the I.N.S. supporting the argument that here was
a person of special talent who would benefit the United States in freedom far
more than in prison.

On a separate track, like others from the Golden Venture, Mr. Wu had appealed
for asylum, on the argument that he and his family had suffered persecution
because of China's rigid one-child-per-couple controls. A few years ago, his
wife underwent a forced abortion and sterilization.

Until now, United States immigration authorities have rejected claims that
China's family-planning policy of itself justifies political asylum. That may
change, for the new immigration law includes a little-noticed provision inserted
by antiabortion forces in Congress specifying that "resistance to a coercive
population control program" qualifies one as having been persecuted. It is
clearly aimed at China (although to avert a tidal wave of Chinese immigration,
the law also limits application of this provision to 1,000 refugees a year).

To Mr. Wu, asylum claims are important, but not as critical for now as his
search for a green card as an artist. Indeed, he said yesterday, he has
questions even more pressing than what he will sculpture: where he will live and
how he will eat.



LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 18, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE REPUBLICAN;
Dole Unleashes His Tough Talk On Immigration

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1201 words

DATELINE: RIVERSIDE, Calif., Oct. 17


Diving into social issues he had avoided for most of this campaign, Bob Dole
today asserted that President Clinton had bowed to "militant special interests"
in fighting efforts to "guard this nation's borders." Mr. Dole assailed Mr.
Clinton for fighting efforts to cut government medical care for illegal
immigrants with AIDS and to bar children of illegal immigrants from public
schools.

Mr. Dole's decision to focus on immigration issues came in a wide and generally
fierce attack on Mr. Clinton during a swing through Southern California. Mr.
Dole intensified the assault on Mr. Clinton's fitness that he raised in their
debate on Wednesday, suggesting today that the Democratic Party had laundered
illicit campaign contributions and alluding to Mr. Clinton's effort to avoid
service in Vietnam.

"I've fought before for America, and I think this is a fight for America's
soul," Mr. Dole said, speaking heatedly and energetically at an unusually
well-attended and handsomely staged rally in a green and sunny town square here.
"This is a fight for America's future. This is a fight we can't afford to lose."

Mr. Dole urged the President as he had in their debate the night before in San
Diego, to agree to a third debate. The White House today declined the
invitation.

The start of what Mr. Dole described as the "home stretch" of his quest for the
Presidency was politically significant both for where Mr. Dole chose to spend
the day and for what he said.

His tour of communities around Los Angeles signaled that the candidate is indeed
serious about devoting of his remaining time and resources on winning this
state's 54 electoral states. "We take California away from Clinton, he can't
win," said Mr. Dole's campaign manager, Scott Reed.

The choice of lines of attack on the President today seemed equally significant,
as it seems fairly certain to set the tone for the final days of Mr. Dole's
campaign.

Immigration was one of a number of socially disputatious issues raised by Mr.
Dole today, and in doing so he followed the advice of Gov. Pete Wilson, who rode
the issue to re-election in 1994. Mr. Dole also spoke strongly in favor of a
California voter initiative that would bar most state affirmative-action
programs and criticized President Clinton for opposing a Constitutional
amendment to bar the desecration of the American flag.

Mr. Reed said the campaign had prepared television advertisements highlighting
the affirmative action and immigration issues. But, in a sign of the kind of
backlash these issues can engender among some groups -- notably among women --
Mr. Reed said there were now no plans to broadcast them out of the state.

Mr. Dole's decision to attack Mr. Clinton on immigration came during a week in
which he has repeatedly yielded to advisers who have counseled a sterner
campaign countenance. He made the adjustment smoothly today, and at times Mr.
Dole sounded as if he were reading a speech from Patrick J. Buchanan, his
conservative opponent in the Republican primaries, who made anti-immigration a
staple of his campaign.

"Why are you paying millions in taxpayer dollars to provide drug rehabilitation
for illegal immigrants?" Mr. Dole said to cheers here. "And worse, why are
thousands of Californians the victims of violent crimes committed by people who
should have been stopped at the border before they so much as stepped foot in
the United States of America."

Mr. Dole noted that Mr. Clinton had forced Congress, before it agreed to an
immigration bill over the strenuous objections of Mr. Dole's campaign managers,
to drop provisions that Mr. Dole had wanted in the bill. "He changed it to allow
illegal aliens to stay in public housing for up to 18 months," Mr. Dole said.
"He changed it so that illegal aliens afflicted with AIDS cannot be denied
taxpayer-funded medical treatment, no matter how high the cost."

Mr. Dole said the President's failure to keep out illegal immigrants had ended
up costing states like California money in social, legal and medical benefits.

"Let me make it very clear; I feel sorry for these people," Mr. Dole declared.
"But if the Federal Government can't stop illegal immigrants, they ought to pick
up the tab. You should not have to pick up the tab in California. The Federal
Government ought to do it."

With that statement, Mr. Dole also appeared to add another financial pledge to
his campaign platform. Mr. Dole, who has already promised to cut taxes and
balance the budget, did not affix a cost to his pledge. Mr. Dole put the cost of
such services in this state at $3 billion.

From the start of the day, Mr. Dole's campaign aides today displayed the kind of
peppy confidence that Presidential campaign operatives routinely display on the
morning after a major campaign event -- in this case, the Presidential debate --
regardless of the performance of the principal. There were high fives all
around, and when someone asked the press secretary, Nelson Warfield, about the
status of a head cold that forced him to missed some debate practice sessions,
he spun right on his heels: "My cold's much improved thanks to the Senator's
great performance at the debate."

Even allowing for the possibility that some of the exuberance was exaggerated,
Mr. Dole appeared in particularly good humor and almost boisterous. And after a
week in which Mr. Dole seemed to be resisting the instruction of his advisers
that he turn up his attacks on Mr. Clinton to turn the race around, he launched
those attacks today with evident gusto.

Mr. Dole asserted that it was time for "adult leadership" in the country,
adding: "Perhaps never has America seen a politician who brags so freely about
promises he never kept, votes he hasn't earned, and goals he has never
accomplished or virtues he has never displayed. It's a charming act. But it's
wearing thin."

At the rally here, Mr. Dole stood in front of a lectern where the usual slogan
describing his tax cut plan had been replaced with one that read: "Cast your
vote with pride." A Los Angeles Times account of Vice President Al Gore
attending a $140,0000 fund-raising event in April at a Buddhist temple quickly
found its way into his stump speech.

"They had a fund raiser at a Buddhist temple in Los Angeles, and the Vice
President showed up and ate vegetables," Mr. Dole said. "You have to take a vow
of poverty to be in that temple. Well, several of them gave $5,000. Next thing
you know they're going to be having fund raisers at homeless shelters."

"They've got such a laundering machine going, they've got their own laundromat,"
Mr. Dole said.

Though polls show Mr. Clinton well ahead in California, Douglas Sosnik, the
White House political director, said today that Mr. Dole was within closer
striking distance there than in virtually any state east of the Mississippi
except Indiana and Ohio, so that it made as much sense for Mr. Dole to try to
compete in California as anywhere else.

Mr. Sosnik, speaking after a rally with Mr. Clinton in Santa Ana, Calif., said
he assumed that Mr. Dole's key goal now is also to help Republican Congressional
candidates.

"This is not about pride," he said of Mr. Dole's options. "This is about
survival."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a swing through Southern California yesterday, Bob Dole
criticized President Clinton for his stands on several social issues, focusing
on immigration. Mr. Dole was greeted at the Mission Inn in Riverside, Calif.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A28)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 18, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS;
In His Own Words

SECTION: Section A;  Page 28;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 187 words



BOB DOLE

Speaking yesterday in Riverside, Calif.:

"If you are in this country illegally, you can stay in public housing, collect
welfare, get free medical care and even invite family members abroad to come and
join you. You might even be able to drive here legally. And with a driver's
license, you might even be able to register to vote under the motor-voter law
signed by Bill Clinton. The possibilities for electoral fraud are just
staggering."

"Let me add that as for those children who are illegal immigrants -- no one is
blaming them. They didn't do anything wrong. We also understand the plight of
people who, in many cases, just want to escape poverty to come and work in
America. Aliens sometimes seems a harsh word for such people. But we bear them
no ill will.

"The larger point is this: It is the duty of the Federal Government to guard the
integrity of our nation's borders, and during the last four years, it has failed
in that duty -- big time. Time after time after time after time, this
Administration has failed. And you are the ones who pay the price for that
monumental failure."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Scenic Mountains Scarred by Illegal Border Crossings

BYLINE: By CAREY GOLDBERG

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 978 words

DATELINE: OTAY MOUNTAIN, Calif.


In some canyons, it looks as if hundreds of Hansels and Gretels have scattered
trails of trash behind them, marking the route from Tijuana.

New paths fork across almost every slope, giving parts of this once-lonely
mountain the threadbare look of the more trafficked corners of a city park.

And a 15,000-acre swath of the mountain ridge is stripped and sooty, burned last
month to a Halloweenish landscape of naked black branches and orange dust by a
wildfire that the authorities are convinced was sparked by an illegal
border-crosser. Who else, they ask, would have been desperate enough to be up on
a 4,000-foot peak building a campfire here on a windy autumn night?

"I've never seen an area like this before," said Jo Simpson, assistant district
manager for the Federal Bureau of Land Management. "It's just been trashed.
They've cut numerous trails, so that degraded it, and the ultimate degradation
was when they burnt it."

As the Federal Government has tried, over the last two years, to stem the stream
of illegal immigration near San Diego, the battle has spread to this forbidding
stretch of public land, a range of heights and draws 15 miles east of the
Pacific Ocean.

Clandestine crossers who once could hop a fence near the ocean at the edge of
Tijuana's urban sprawl now face beefed-up patrols and barriers. Increasingly,
they have been turning to perilous treks of five or six miles through these
mountains, risking heat exhaustion in summer highs of 110 degrees, bandits,
snakes and thirst.

Initial Government plans for the region had figured the terrain would be enough
to stop most illegal crossers here. They were wrong.

Instead, the traffic in the Otay Mountain area has set off a striking
side-skirmish in the border war. The immigrants are taking to these mountains in
such numbers -- hundreds each night, it is estimated -- that nature lovers and
Government officials warn that they are threatening the environment here.

"It's a biological jewel," Nick Ervin, desert committee chairman of the San
Diego Sierra Club, said of the Otay Mountain region. "The Tecate cypress exists
almost nowhere else in the world and it's in abundance on Otay Mountain, which
is a prime area for several rare and endangered plants. And now the area's being
largely ruined."

Much of the Otay Mountain environs are officially designated by the Department
of the Interior as a protected Wilderness Study Area because of those rare
plants. Unfortunately, the plants tend to grow in the very canyon beds where the
illegal immigrants tread, their feet grinding down the root systems of the
fragile growths.

The fires, a vast majority of which are caused by campfires, also have
environmentalists and Government officials worried; though fires are part of the
natural cycle here, they are becoming so frequent that they threaten to wipe
some plants out, Mr. Ervin said.

More than 322 fires have been spotted in the Otay Mountain area this year, said
Richard D. Franklin, the Interior Department's chief of fire and aviation
management for the California desert region. His firefighters have taken to
helicopter flights three times a week to find the remains of the campfires the
illegal immigrants leave, he said. Out of fear that immigrants will be trapped
and killed in the blazes, they spend hundreds of thousands of dollars
extinguishing fires they would normally have let burn out naturally.

San Diego County officials, afraid that they might have to foot the bill for
treating burn victims in these mountains, declared a state of emergency here
this summer to attract more state and Federal money, and Federal officials have
erected several signs on the most traveled Otay footpaths, warning in Spanish:
"It is difficult to escape a fire in action."

It is even more difficult to stop the flow of people leaving the economic
deprivation of Mexico for the under-the-table jobs waiting for them in the
United States. The Border Patrol has almost doubled the personnel in its San
Diego sector since 1993, to nearly 2,000 agents, and is catching a half-million
illegal immigrants a year.

But "the economic push and pull are so incredible that it's like you hear a
giant sucking sound," said Jim Pilkington, a Border Patrol agent and spokesman.

The power of that pull became clear when Pedro Acosta, 43, and Francisco Arroyo,
30, two Mexicans caught by the Border Patrol one recent afternoon just after
they had made it over the mountain, described the terrors of their trip. They
spoke from a Border Patrol van on their way to be processed and deported.

"We're very afraid of the journey," said Mr. Acosta, a gardener who had been on
his way to an American job from his hometown of Sinaloa. "There are people who
don't make it -- and if you get lost in the mountains and can't find your way,
you remain there."

Mr. Arroyo, 30, said, "You can fall, there are the bandits, the snakes and lots
of people die when there is fire."

Both men looked exhausted after an all-night trek up miles of rugged slopes.
Although some immigrants hire guides to help them with the crossing, Mr. Acosta
and Mr. Arroyo said they had not.

In the last two years, the Border Patrol has recorded more than 20 immigrants'
deaths in the region, most from exposure. They have also noticed that almost all
the crossers they catch now are young men, since most women and children no
longer try the mountain ordeal.

The patrol is trying to stop even that traffic, pouring dozens of new agents
into the area.

No one expects a quick end to the illegal foot traffic, but environmentalists
hope that one of these days, the area might again be safe enough to hike in
without fear of meeting up with bandits, border police officers or quick-moving
wildfires.

But for now, Mr. Ervin said, hikers say, "There's no way I'm going to Otay
Mountain -- it's a war zone in there."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of California showing the location of Otay Mountain.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 21, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
2 Immigrants Settle For $740,000 in Beating

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 122 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 20


Two illegal immigrants whose beating by Riverside County Sheriff's deputies was
videotaped by television news crews have settled a lawsuit against the county
for $740,000.

The immigrants from Mexico, Alicia Sotero Vasquez and her boyfriend, Enrique
Funes Flores, will share the award in exchange for dropping their Federal civil
rights lawsuit against the county, the American Civil Liberties Union announced
today.

The beating occurred after a 60-mile chase of a pickup truck carrying illegal
immigrants.

Both deputies involved in the beating in April 1996 were punished after a
department investigation: Tracy Watson was dismissed, and Kurtis Franklin was
suspended for a month. Both are appealing those decisions.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 24, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Changes in Laws Spur Immigrants to Citizenship

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1549 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS


DURING the pledge of allegiance to the flag, Gladys Imogene Reid, 89, placed her
right hand firmly on her heart and -- though barely 5 feet tall -- stood
triumphant among more than 200 immigrants who were naturalized here earlier this
month. A native of Jamaica, the diminutive grandmother was the most senior in
the standing-room-only crowd that day, part of a nationwide crush of people
seeking citizenship in the United States.

At 84, Manuel Fernandez Elia had also waited until he was an octogenarian to
become a citizen. A former resident of the Dominican Republic, he was dressed in
his finest suit and hat and clutched a small American flag. He smiled broadly as
he joined in the ceremonies.

There were other proud new citizens as well: Jamie Bermeo, 27, of Ecuador, a
plumber's assistant, who said he had just taken "the biggest step of his life";
Erika Reger, 54, a homemaker from Germany, who missed the Nov. 5 election but
said she wanted to be able to vote in the next one; Norsherwany Gul, 63, of
Pakistan, a taxi driver, who quietly murmured, "God bless America," and
Elizabeth Bellom, 30, of Bulgaria, a makeup artist who led the pledge of
allegiance in a loud, clear voice but wiped away tears afterward and said, "This
is my dream."

Dressed in everything from office attire to jeans and costumes of their native
countries, the new citizens represented many countries, age groups and walks of
life. But in unison they said, "I hearby declare on oath that I absolutely and
entirely renounce and abjure all allegiance and fidelity to any foreign prince,
potentate, state or sovereignty."

And honored though most were to become new citizens, many also acknowledged that
they felt a sense of urgency to attain legal status in the United States. They
said they were seeking protection from changes in Federal and local laws that
are expected to make the lives of many immigrants more difficult.

"Clearly, it is time," said Anne McGlynn, a registered nurse from County Kerry
in Ireland. "The law has changed, and things will only become tougher for us."
Ms. McGlynn, 35, and her husband, Patrick Williams, 27, a building
superintendent, live in Rye, where they are raising their two American-born
children.

Many of the new citizens also spoke fearfully of a palpable and less welcoming
shift in attitude toward immigrants -- what Margie McHugh, executive director of
the New York Immigrant Coalition, recently described as "the ugliest form of
politics that lays blame for the country's problems on people who are seeking
freedom and opportunity and are trying to build a better life."

Ms. McHugh, whose organization serves as an umbrella agency for about 150
immigrant groups, attributed the turnabout in sentiment to three pivotal events:
the arrests of Muslim terrorists from the Middle East in the 1993 bombing of the
World Trade Center in New York; also that year, the discovery off the Rockaway
Peninsula in Queens of the infamous Golden Venture, an immigrant smuggling ship
from China, and the passage in 1994 of Proposition 187 in California, which
ended government benefits to illegal immigrants.

"These events served as a signal to politicians that the immigrant issue would
be easy pickings, one to exploit," Ms. McHugh said. Locally, immigrant advocates
recalled a case focusing on Mount Kisco. The Westchester Hispanic Coalition and
four immigrants who are being represented by the Westchester chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union filed suit on Nov. 6 in Federal District Court in
White Plains charging Mount Kisco with violating the rights of Latin American
newcomers.

The plaintiffs are opposing the town's laws, which regulate day workers and
contractors, a housing code that has been employed to evict immigrants from
crowded apartments and rules that prohibit the immigrant workers from gathering
in a public park. The suit charges the town with violation of the immigrants'
rights to free speech and assembly as protected by the United States
Constitution and the New York State Constitution.

Graciela Heymann, executive director of the Hispanic Coalition, said that the
Mount Kisco police rousted some immigrants from their beds during a
middle-of-the-night raid on a crowded apartment house last spring and that town
officials have confined others to a parking lot on mornings when they wait for
day work.

Also, according to the suit, recreational opportunities have been denied to
Hispanic residents who have been turned away from soccer fields in a public park
and have been the object of threats and discriminatory comments by police
officers.

Ms. Heymann said that nowhere has anti-American rhetoric been heard so loudly
and clearly as in that northern Westchester town, where immigrants feel under
siege.

"Everyone else gets a building inspector who knocks on their door, but these
people get awakened at 12:30 in the morning," she said. "In their native land,
the life of the village is out on the street, but in Mount Kisco it is called
loitering.

"Now they are asking, 'Why are they singling us out? We thought these things
didn't happen in America.' "

Passage of a sweeping Federal welfare reform law in August has also sent a
chilling note to many immigrants and the agencies serving them.

The legislation imposes many new restrictions on aid to legal immigrants who are
not yet citizens. For example, legal immigrants will generally no longer be
eligible for food stamps or Supplemental Security Income, the Federal cash
support for the poor, elderly and disabled.

Also, states will be allowed, but not required, to deny noncitizens cash
welfare, Medicaid, Title XX block grant benefits and other state and local
public assistance.

Moreover, future legal immigrants will be denied most Federal benefits during
their first five years in the United States, including Medicaid and public
housing.

And sponsorship documents will become legally enforceable, requiring for the
first time that those who sponsor new immigrants pay back any public benefits
the immigrants receive. And in assessing new immigrants' applications for most
Federal aid, the Government will take into account their sponsors' income.

Gov. George E. Pataki, in interpreting the Federal law for the state, has
offered a plan that would continue cash benefits to immigrant families who
arrived in the United States before Aug. 22. But immigrant families coming after
that date would be treated the same as able-bodied single people: no longer
eligible for cash payments, only for the more limited voucher program.
Immigrants who lose their S.S.I. payments or who arrived after Aug. 22 would be
eligible for vouchers, not cash grants.

At the county's Office for the Aging, Mae Carpenter, the director, girded for
the impact of the new law, which is expected to be especially devastating for
older immigrants.

"I am afraid that we are going to see the system weighed down beyond its
capacity to respond," she said.

Under another new law -- the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act -- Congress eliminated the kind of class-action suit that has
been used to challenge practices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The statute also eliminates judicial review of discretionary decisions by the
Attorney General, who has the authority to waive deportation for aliens who are
technically subject to deportation but who can demonstrate that, for reasons of
fairness or family ties, they should be permitted to stay.

In response to what he has termed "mean-sprited legislation," a Bedford
philanthropist, George Soros, has established the Emma Lazarus Fund of the Open
Society Institute and is offering $50 million to help immigrants qualify for
citizenship and "combat unfair treatment of and discrimination against those who
are lawfully present in the United States." The fund is named for the poet whose
words are engraved on the Statue of Liberty.

Nationwide, immigrants' requests for citizenship are soaring, and more than one
million new citizens are expected to be sworn in this year.

In Westchester, County Clerk Leonard N. Spano's office has doubled the number of
naturalization ceremonies it conducts from once a month to every two weeks.
Three years ago, the office naturalized 2,249 immigrants. This year the
projection is for 3,200 new citizens.

Nearly 22,300 aliens settled in Westchester from 1990 to 1995 -- the highest
immigration level since the 1930's, reported Albert A. Annuziata, director of
research for the county's Department of Planning.

Of those, 80 percent were from the following 10 countries, listed from highest
to lowest: Jamaica, Ireland, Dominican Republic, India, the Philippines,
Colombia, Peru, Mexico, Ecuador, Britain, Japan and Poland.

Over the years, they have settled primarily in cities and towns where immigrant
enclaves had already been started: Yonkers, Mount Vernon, White Plains, New
Rochelle, Port Chester, Scarsdale, the Tarrytowns, Ossining, Peekskill and Mount
Kisco.

Of the 814,416 immigrants who came to the United States in 1994, most were from
Mexico (111,398), the Soviet Union (63,420), China (53,985), the Philippines
(53,535) and the Dominican Republic (51,189), according to statistics from the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: New American citizens being sworn in at the County Courthouse
in White Plains, far left, and Manuel Fernandez Elia, 84. (Photographs by George
M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 27, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

CLINTON CONSIDERS MOVE TO SOFTEN CUTS IN WELFARE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1327 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 26


To soften the impact of the new welfare law on poor people and immigrants,
President Clinton wants Congress to restore about one-fourth of the $55 billion
that would otherwise be saved by the law over the next six years, Administration
officials said today.

The officials said they were drafting proposals to revise the law as part of the
balanced-budget plan that Mr. Clinton will submit to Congress in February. Mr.
Clinton has indicated his general policy preferences, but has not decided on the
details, they said.

Many Democrats, including some Cabinet officers, had criticized Mr. Clinton for
accepting the bill. Within a week of signing it on Aug. 22, Mr. Clinton was
urging voters to re-elect him so he could "fix" it. But later, in campaign
speeches, he cited the law as one of his achievements.

In any event, he will have difficulty persuading Congress to revisit the issue
next year.

One proposal contemplated by the White House would restore food stamp
eligibility for many legal immigrants who have not become citizens. The new law
denies food stamps to most noncitizens.

A second proposal would increase food stamp allotments for families with high
housing costs. Most such families have children.

Another proposal under consideration would relax the stringent work requirements
imposed by the new law on able-bodied adults who have no dependents. Under the
law, such adults may receive food stamps for only three months in any 36-month
period unless they are working or participating in a work program. The
Congressional Budget Office says that 800,000 to one million people could lose
food stamps because of this provision.

The chief author of the welfare law, Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr., a Florida
Republican, and the assistant Republican leader of the Senate, Senator Don
Nickles of Oklahoma, said Republicans had no interest in Administration efforts
to soften the effects of the new welfare law.

In an interview, Mr. Shaw said: "There will be some technical corrections. But
any substantive change in the law would certainly be rejected at this time.
There's no sense changing it before you give it a chance to work. We didn't walk
into this blindly. We had extensive hearings."

Mr. Nickles said the Senate would not seriously consider proposals that weakened
the law.

"I think the President has been intent on undermining welfare reform since this
thing started," he said. He maintained that Mr. Clinton did not really want to
sign the welfare bill and "wouldn't have signed it had it not been an election
year."

Mr. Clinton vetoed two earlier versions of the legislation, saying they would
hurt children, but signed the third, with reservations. He described it as "our
last best chance to fundamentally change the system."

Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, voted against the
welfare bill in August, but said today that he wanted to let states try to carry
it out before he sought changes.

"I suspect ultimately some legislative changes are going to be necessary, but I
frankly don't think the climate is one that will allow for opening up the bill
very early," Mr. Daschle said. Moreover, he said, the President "has latitude in
interpretation of the new law" and has leverage in negotiations with governors.

The next two months are among the most critical in the yearlong process of
writing a budget to set priorities for the nation. In December and January, Mr.
Clinton will make decisions that determine the tenor of the 1997 budget debate,
determining whether there is quick bipartisan agreement or another year of
bitter conflict.

Changing the stringent work requirements for food stamp recipients is a top
priority for liberal groups like the Food Research and Action Center. "This
provision of the new law threatens to eliminate the only form of public
assistance available to many needy people who are willing to work but unable to
find jobs," said Robert J. Fersh, president of the center.

But the work requirements are politically popular, and it is unclear how hard
Mr. Clinton will push for changes. Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the
Republican leader, said the American people would not agree with Mr. Clinton if
he "starts pleading the case of how able-bodied people, under 50 with no
dependent children, should be able to get limitless food stamps, every year
forever."

The Congressional Budget Office says the welfare law, taken as a whole, will
save $54.6 billion over six years. Mr. Clinton's proposals would restore $13
billion to $14 billion of that amount, Administration officials said.

By signing the welfare bill, Mr. Clinton fulfilled his promise to "end welfare
as we know it." But he said that the cuts in food stamps and programs for legal
immigrants were too deep, and he asserted that the cuts had "nothing to do with
the fundamental purpose of welfare reform."

Mr. Clinton is not contemplating any proposals to alter the most important
feature of the new law, which eliminates the 61-year-old Federal guarantee of
cash assistance for the nation's poorest children.

Sharon M. Daly, deputy director of Catholic Charities USA, said "there's zero
possibility" that Mr. Clinton will try to restore this Federal guarantee, known
as an entitlement.

Melissa T. Skolfield, an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services,
corrected that assessment. She said the chances of the President's trying to
restore the entitlement were "less than zero."

A liberal group, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said today that
benefit programs for poor people had borne a disproportionate share of the
cutbacks in Federal benefit programs in the last two years. Programs for poor
people account for 23 percent of all Federal spending on entitlements, but
absorbed 93 percent of the reductions, the study said.

A major reason for the disparity is that Mr. Clinton and Congress could not
agree on savings in Medicare, which finances health care for people who are
elderly or disabled, regardless of their income.

Treasury officials said they were fleshing out a proposal to offer Federal tax
credits to employers who hired welfare recipients. Under the proposal, which Mr.
Clinton mentioned in his speech to the Democratic National Convention in August,
employers could take a credit for 50 percent of the first $10,000 they spend on
wages, health benefits and educational assistance for newly hired workers who
have been on welfare for 18 consecutive months.

The Congressional Budget Office says one million immigrants may lose food stamps
because of the new welfare law. It would cost roughly $3.7 billion over six
years to restore their eligibility, the agency said.

Food stamp households receive an average of $177 a month in coupons. The amount
of a family's food stamp allotment depends on its income. Families with
exceptionally high shelter costs, exceeding 50 percent of their net income,
receive a special allowance. That allowance, which was scheduled to increase on
Jan. 1, will be curtailed by the new law. The cutbacks will save the Treasury $3
billion over six years, according to the Congressional Budget Office.

In signing the legislation, Mr. Clinton criticized the new work requirements for
people 18 to 50 years old. The law, he said, "fails to provide food stamp
support to childless adults who want to work, but cannot find a job or are not
given the opportunity to participate in a work program."

The author of the work requirement, Representative John R. Kasich, Republican of
Ohio, said people unable to find jobs in private industry could do public
service work in return for food stamp benefits.

But Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities,
said the work requirements would have "harsher consequences than Congress
intended." For people with very low skills, he said, few suitable jobs are
available, and "most states have no workfare programs for food stamp
recipients."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 27, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

On Campaign Finance, Keep the Competition;
Anti-Immigrant Move

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

I am dismayed by President Clinton's decision to refuse to accept donations for
the Democratic Party from permanent legal residents (front page, Jan. 22). In
doing so, he joins the anti-immigrant crusaders who are trying to take away all
basic rights of legal immigrants.

A more reasonable remedy for the current mess of money in American politics
would be to ban all corporate donations and lower the cap on individual
contributions to a single candidate or party to $500 a year. If we want to build
a bridge to the 21st century and realize real democracy in America, then it is
imperative that we adopt a fair, democratic and people-oriented campaign finance
law now.

JOHN H. KIM
New York, Jan. 22, 1997
The writer is general secretary of the National Association of Korean Americans.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 2, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ART VIEW;
The Agony of Exile, for the Lucky Ones

BYLINE: By Michael Kimmelman

SECTION: Section 2; Page 39; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 1500 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


IT'S IN THE NATURE OF "EXILES and Emigres," the exhibition here about European
artists who fled Hitler, that the person you will probably recall afterward
isn't an artist. It's not Kandinsky or Chagall or Mondrian but Breckinridge
Long, Assistant Secretary of State under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

This is because Mr. Long oversaw immigration. And in a brief film, one of the
memorable contributions to this memorable show at the Los Angeles County Museum
of Art, we are reminded of an infamous 1940 memo he wrote instructing United
States consulates to "put every obstacle in the way, which would postpone and
postpone and postpone the granting of visas." How many people died as a result?
Who knows, but the show states that half of the already slim quotas that the
United States set for European immigrants went unfilled between 1933 and 1944.
Even a bill to admit 20,000 German children failed in Congress when Roosevelt
wouldn't endorse it.

How can art compete with facts like these? It can't. Artists like Fernand Leger
and Jacques Lipchitz and Andre Masson and George Grosz, having escaped from
Europe, were the lucky ones with good connections, and it seems almost
unbecoming to suggest that they suffered as exiles. Here in balmy Los Angeles,
the exiles were mostly writers, musicians and actors, not artists, and the
exhibition's catalogue includes a wonderful photograph of Arnold Schoenberg,
dour as usual, playing Ping-Pong in shirt-sleeves and white pants at his home
off Sunset Boulevard on Rockingham, which was already on the celebrity bus tour
because it was Shirley Temple's address.

Another exile in Brentwood, the Marxist philosopher Theodor Adorno, said that
"to write poetry after Auschwitz is barbaric," precisely describing the dilemma
of art in the face of genocide. Meanwhile, he slaved in his apartment on Kenter
Avenue over a turgid essay about the astrology column in The Los Angeles Times.
"Inasmuch as the social system is the 'fate' of most individuals independent of
their will and interest," he wrote, "it is projected upon the stars in order to
thus obtain a higher degree of dignity and justification in which the
individuals hope to participate themselves." You get the idea.

"Exiles and Emigres," which remains here until May 11, then travels to Montreal
and Berlin, is organized by Stephanie Barron of the Los Angeles County Museum
along with Sabine Eckmann, a German scholar. It's the much-anticipated sequel to
"Degenerate Art," Ms. Barron's 1991 survey about avant-garde artists in Hitler's
Germany. A model of reconstructive scholarship, that show had a sense of
urgency, coming, by chance, when the debates over public financing of the arts
and freedom of expression were at their peak. It proved to be an unspoken
admonishment of those who trivialized the issues: it was one thing to be denied
a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts, and it was another to die in a
concentration camp, as the German-Jewish artist Otto Freundlich did.

"Exiles and Emigres" is timely too, a study of immigration on view in a state
where that issue is a powder keg. This partly explains the interest in the show.
Mostly it's that "Degenerate Art" left unfinished a saga that "Exiles and
Emigres" finally completes.

The new show mixes art with heavy doses of information: 130 works by 23
well-known painters, sculptors, architects and photographers jostling against
posters, pamphlets, letters and press clippings. Architectural models, coups de
theatre of small-scale re-creation, show Mondrian's last New York studio, and
Frederick Kiesler's screwball Surrealist room at Peggy Guggenheim's Art of This
Century gallery in Manhattan: a shoe box of concave walls, with Dalis and Miros
cantilevered on tapered wood arms.

"Degenerate Art," you recall, was about the eponymous 1937 Nazi display of
paintings and sculptures outlawed in Germany: Beckmanns, Kokoschkas, Klees and
so on. Hitler wanted literally to sterilize artists "to prevent the further
inheritance of their horrible distortion of vision." Having got the message,
many fled before the show opened in Munich. Beckmann left the next day.

"Exiles and Emigres" picks up their story and the stories of non-Germans like
Andre Breton, Chagall and Leger, who quit France for America. Its subject is a
diaspora -- more a matter of history than art history, really, which is fine:
exhibitions come in different forms and this one is nuanced and canny, as good
historical shows should be.

It reminds us, for example, that the architects Mies van der Rohe and Walter
Gropius entered Nazi-sponsored competitions with schemes for modernist buildings
adorned by swastikas: for a while, at least, they believed that it was
"perfectly possible to combine Bauhaus modernism with Nazi-tainted subject
matter," as Peter Hahn, the present director of the Bauhaus-Archiv in Berlin,
writes in the show's catalogue. The show thereby substitutes for the standard
assumption of Bauhaus liberalism a subtler and more skeptical account of its
principals that is also truer to life.

Likewise, it avoids generalizing about the art. There wasn't really an exile
art, it turns out, just art by exiles. On the one hand, John Heartfield was in
London doing anti-Nazi exhibitions for the Free German League of Culture and
making photomontages of Hitler as a gorilla with horns. At the same time George
Grosz was in America painting war-ravaged landscapes under bilious skies. And a
useful contribution of the show is to demonstrate that Masson did political
pictures, and wasn't just an introspective formalist, as the traditional
histories have it.

On the other hand there was Beckmann, a cynic, silent about politics, creating
his fiercely solipsistic pictures. "Birds' Hell" is a garish nightmare image of
a shackled man flayed before a mob that gives the Nazi salute to a strutting
bird. But it's the exception. You have to stretch to interpret dark, primitive
and claustrophobic Beckmanns like "Birth" and "Death" as war stories. They show
pasty figures laid out under a hard beam, like the light of an interrogator's
lamp, though what they're about, precisely, is not in the end so clear.

Truth be told, much of the art here isn't great. War rarely bring out the best
in visual artists. The Beckmanns aside, you can come away prizing Kurt
Schwitters's collages, wry and sad, a couple of Heartfields and Kandinskys and
not much else in this show. Clearly, war better suited documentary photographers
like Andreas Feininger, whose snapshot of a New York man rubbing his eyes on V-E
Day, as if waking from a deep sleep, captures the moment perfectly.

SO BE IT. GROSZ ONCE JOKED: "I left because of Hitler. He is a painter, too, you
know, and there didn't seem to be room for both of us in Germany." The impact of
the emigres on American culture is an old story, at least as much about their
lives as it is about the quality of their art. The show tells it with a twist:
for once, this isn't about what Americans like Pollock learned from the emigres;
it's about how the emigres fared.

Mostly they did O.K. Anti-foreign sentiment in America made it tough for a
Hungarian photographer like Andre Kertesz to shoot pictures out of doors because
people feared that he might be a spy. Americans didn't love the French either,
and in particular regarded the Surrealists as suspiciously effete. Luckily,
foresighted dealers, museum officials and others, like Curt Valentin, Alfred H.
Barr Jr. and, above, all, Varian Fry, somehow arranged visas, stipends, shows
and sales for the emigres.

Institutions like the New School for Social Research and Black Mountain College
hired them and forever changed American arts education as a result. The faculty
rosters at Yale, Harvard and New York University's Institute of Fine Arts became
a Who's Who of European art scholars like Erwin Panofsky, Walter Friedlaender
and Henri Focillon.

The emigres influenced America. Did America influence them? Leger, who loved
what he called America's "electric intensity," believed that its "bad taste" was
one of its "valuable raw materials," though his art was not much changed by it.
Someone who cottoned more to pop culture was Mondrian, his abstract grids taking
on the jazzy buzz of New York City streets.

But the emigres most affected by American culture were probably here in Los
Angeles, working in the movies: Germans like Fritz Lang, Marlene Dietrich and
Billy Wilder. They're technically beyond Ms. Barron's purview, though her
catalogue has a splendid essay by the writer Lawrence Weschler that shows how
deeply rooted they became among the palm trees and bougainvillea.

Mr. Weschler recounts a story about Otto Preminger and Gottfried Reinhardt
visiting a casino on Sunset Boulevard. They turned out to be the only
non-Hungarians at the roulette table. Galled that everyone was speaking
Hungarian, Mr. Preminger finally slammed his fist down on the baize: "Goddamn
it, guys, you're in America! Speak German!"

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Max Beckmann's "Birds' Hell," from 1938--A nightmare vision.
(Richard L. Feigen); John Heartfield's "And Yet It Moves!" (1943), left, and
Kurt Schwitters' "The Hitler Gang" (c. 1944), made in a British internment camp.
(Lola Schwitters; Stiftung Archiv der Akademie der Kunste Berlin, Kunstsammlung
(Heartfield Archiv))

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 9, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Little Room for Romance In Rush to Wed a Citizen

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 590 words


The security guard ran for the phone. Someone had jumped line and a fist fight
broke out. Middle-aged women were pinned between the door and the surging crowd,
their screams inaudible, their mouths gaping. Then the police wagon arrived.
"You all can get married in Rikers Island. How about that?" offered one police
officer.

That was the scene at the Queens marriage and license bureau last week. A
thousand desperate people a day trying to get married by April 1, when new
immigration laws take effect. In the next few weeks, city officials expect even
more to try.

Most people who waited in line had no clear understanding of how the law would
work, beyond the fears, many unfounded, that they will lose their benefits or be
deported. So they started arriving as early as 2:30 A.M., braving snow, rain,
wind and riot. And many of the relationships were like vending machine coffee:
fake, convenient and cash only. According to the buzz, the price for marrying an
American citizen was as high as $5,000.

"It is a fitting introduction to life as an American citizen," said Daniel E.
Hendricks, Jamaican by birth but a Jamaica, Queens, New Yorker by residence. He
was to marry the mother of his daughter, Lydia L. Hendricks, his girlfriend of
eight years. They are church-going people, he said, and the occasion left him
with a saccharine aftertaste. "The sanctity of marriage has been reduced to
avarice and deceit."

Perhaps the lying and cheating is a fitting metaphor for the state of the
country, said David Gutierrez. "Here, you got to do what you got to do."

Mr. Gutierrez runs a photo concession outside the bureau, charging $10 for a
Polaroid wedding shot complete with a plastic bouquet. He also sells wedding
bands -- fake gold -- for an additional $10. His is the best deal around, he
said. "The marriage you have to pay $55, and $600 for the divorce."

There were convoluted matrices of love. One man, who gave his name only as Paul,
was marrying his girlfriend Ann's best friend. The groom could not speak
English, the bride, a citizen, could not speak Spanish. Ann -- Paul's true love
-- can speak both English and Spanish. She stood in as a witness to watch Paul
marry her friend. The next day, Ann was to marry Paul's friend. Paul was to be
the witness. And, if everything turns out, Paul and Ann will divorce and then
re-marry.

There are entrepreneurs. Benny Moe, 26, said he is not currently employed beyond
the work he does at the marriage bureau. "If you don't got a witness, I'm the
man," Mr. Moe said. He said he charges $25 to sign a name to the marriage
license and then accompanies the betrothed through their ceremony.

Witnesses for hire are illegal, said Shirley Jackson, administrator of the
Queens marriage license bureau.

The actual costs and amenities are these: the marriage license is $30, the civil
ceremony costs $25. A blood test is not required but there is a mandatory
24-hour waiting period. The ceremony, conducted in a small room with a lectern
and plastic flowers, is offered in English only. It takes 20 seconds and has
four parts:

"Do you take (insert name) to be your lawfully wedded wife?" Answer.

"Do you take (insert name) to be your lawfully wedded husband?" Answer.

"By the power vested in me by the great state of New York, I now pronounce you
man and wife.

"You may kiss your bride."

Next.

"That's it?" Mrs. Hendricks asked with a hand over her mouth trying to hold back
the laughter. "I feel so cheated." The Hendrickses plan a church wedding in
June.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a rare moment of peace outside the busy marriage and license
bureau in Queens, a just-married couple document the occasion.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 9, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Love of Country, if Not Each Other;
An Illusory Deadline Drives Immigrants' Rush to Marry

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1843 words


The crowds keep getting bigger as April 1 nears: women in new white shoes,
sleepy men carrying $30 money orders, couples who met only months, weeks or days
ago.

Last week, Irwin Rendon, 38, went to the Queens County Court House at 3 A.M. and
was still not the first person on line -- the line that starts in front of a
sign that says Marriage Licenses.

The two words have become an obsession among immigrants in New York and some
other cities around the country.

"I'm getting married because I love her," said Mr. Rendon, a U.S. citizen,
sitting on a milk crate next to his fiancee, Lorraine Contreras, 29.

But like many of the more than 200 people in line, Mr. Rendon acknowledged a
zone of practicality in his passion. Ms. Contreras is, like him, from Guatemala,
and he believes that tough new immigration laws that go into effect in April
will make it harder for her to stay in the United States. So the wedding will
come quicker.

There is a gap, though, between hope and reality.  Since huge numbers of
immigrants began applying for marriage licenses two months ago, immigration
experts have agreed there is nothing magical about April 1. The effect of
marriage on immigration -- real in many cases, but illusory in others -- is the
same, whether the wedding takes place before or after that date.

Yet the crush continues in an unprecedented way, in what advocates for
immigrants say is a desperate attempt to do something -- anything -- to stay
here despite complicated new laws that raise the specter of banishment from the
country. Adding incentive are new laws taking away Federal benefits, like food
stamps, from all noncitizens.  Driven by rumor, fear and inaccurate information,
the frenzy has been most evident in New York City, but officials in New Jersey,
Miami and Houston also report a marked increase in weddings.

It has breathed new life into an underground industry that makes some immigrants
victims and law-breakers at once. Marriage brokers, illegal under Federal law,
are finding eager customers, at $5,000 or more a match. Hustlers are taking
their share, renting out plastic bouquets for $20, driving, interpreting,
serving as witnesses or helping fill out forms -- all for a fee.

Last week in Queens, Sergei Kershenko, 28, a Russian immigrant, wandered out of
the crowded line for marriage licenses, looking desperately for a woman who had
agreed to marry him for $3,000.  But she was nowhere to be found.

"I don't know her name," Mr. Kershenko said.

At the line in front of the Municipal Building in Manhattan, a woman who said
she had set up four marriages in the last several months kept a hawk's eye on
the couple she hoped would be her fifth, a man from northern Africa paying a
Puerto Rican woman $5,000 to marry him. Her cut was $800, she said, and she was
waiting for the first installment, due after the license was filled out.

"Nobody on that line is in love," said the woman, a 41-year-old welfare mother
who, like others interviewed, spoke on the condition of anonymity.

Advocates for immigrants say the vast majority of the marriages are not purely
for convenience, but some mix of love and reasonable worry. But skeptical
Federal immigration officials say that they will scrutinize the matches very
carefully, as they do in all immigration cases involving marriage, to decide
which are legitimate.

"Fear of deportation is not a genuine reason for marriage," said Brian Jordan, a
spokesman for the United States Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service
in Washington. "Whether it is 'fraudulent' may be another matter," he said,
acknowledging it is difficult to prove the absence of love.

And the chances of getting caught are small. Of the 96,033 marriages between
immigrants and citizens or legal residents in 1994, the last year for which data
are available, 717 were invalidated because of fraud.

The number of immigrants flooding into marriage license bureaus is soaring. In
Houston, 3,292 marriage licenses were issued in February, compared with 2,515 in
February 1996. In metropolitan Miami, the number rose in February to 3,460,
compared with 2,419 for the same period the year before. Oddly, other cities
with large immigrant populations, like Los Angeles and San Francisco, have
reported no major increases.

In New York, where fist fights and shouting matches have been common in long
lines, the numbers are most dramatic: a rough tallying of ceremonies performed
by the City Clerk in Manhattan in February showed double the number from the
previous year, to 2,612 from 1,301 in 1996. Around the city in January, the last
month for which complete data are available, the number of licenses issued rose
47 percent, to 6,577 this year, from 4,471 in 1996. The number of ceremonies
performed that month also nearly doubled, to 5,083 from 2,652 last year.

In interviews with scores of people waiting on lines, it was clear that few
people -- if anyone -- knew exactly what frightened them in the new laws. One
22-year-old woman from Brooklyn agreed to marry a man she had met only a few
months ago, a 22-year-old illegal immigrant from Honduras, because she thought
that getting married would prevent him from being deported.

"Exactly, I don't know," said a waiter and naturalized citizen who was marrying
his girlfriend, a 24-year-old student from Slovakia. "The advice was to do it
before and not have any problems."

The advice, though, does not usually come from lawyers, but from friends and
incomplete news accounts from the mainstream media and the immigrant press. So,
advocates, lawyers and other immigration experts say, the chaos is
understandable, especially given the mind-boggling complexity of immigration
law.

"Just getting married won't do it, and a lot of immigrants are confused," said
Jana Mason, a lobbyist with Immigration and Refugee Services of America, a
nonprofit advocacy group in Washington.

In general, the new laws that go into effect on April 1 do not change the
present rules for marriage and immigration.

Then, as now, marrying a United States citizen confers a decided advantage if
the immigrant has legal status to begin with. The married immigrant can become a
conditional resident after an initial interview with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service several months after the wedding, if the agency
determines the marriage is legitimate. Permanent status comes in two years and
citizenship, if desired, in three years.

But other combinations -- illegal immigrants marrying citizens, or legal or
illegal immigrants marrying green card holders -- are more complicated and much
less certain. This is helping to drive some of the confusion over the new law.

The section of the law passed by Congress last September that has illegal
immigrants most worried is aimed at preventing people from entering the country
illegally and driving those who are already here back to their home countries.

Currently, illegal immigrants who apply for legal status are not penalized in
the visa process for having entered the country without documentation, although
they may be deported at any time.

On April 1, a clock starts ticking toward a set of escalating penalties for
illegal entries: illegal immigrants who are deported or leave the country after
the end of September -- and who subsequently wish to apply for a visa -- will be
barred from re-entering the United States for three years. Immigrants who leave
a year after the April 1 date will be barred for 10 years.

"As for the significance of the April 1 date, it is no more than a trip wire
that begins a clock ticking," said Elissa M. McGovern, a lawyer with the
American Immigration Lawyers Association, a nationwide organization.

What several lawyers say may be furthering confusion is uncertainty about the
future of another immigration law, which has been seen as helpful in getting
many illegal immigrants legal status, but is viewed as being somewhat
contradictory to the new regulations. In 1994, Congress passed a law that
included a section called 245i, which allowed qualified immigrants to change
their status without leaving the country, simply by paying a $1,000 fine. The
law is set to expire at the end of September, and there has been no clear
indication whether Congress will renew it. If it is not extended, many
immigrants who have to leave the country could be barred under the new laws.

So, some lawyers speculate, this gives many people another incentive for
marrrying before April 1.

Because the waiting time in New York for applications under the 245i rule is
between six and eight months, papers would have to be filed at least by April 1.
And being married to a citizen would give an immigrant an edge with immigration
officials.

"Those people, if they don't rush a little bit they might not get it in on
time," said Carlos Bajo, director of the Office for Immigrant Services of
Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York.

At bottom, immigrants say, these are uncertain times, and no one wants to take
any chances, even if it means waiting in long lines day after day until they
finally can squeeze in to get a license.

"Later on, maybe we're going to have problems," said Young Pak, 28, a
naturalized citizen from Korea who planned to marry his girlfriend, Sue Kim, 27,
whom he met in a Bible class. "So we're just doing it faster. It's better."

How Immigration Laws May Affect Those Who Marry

 Immigrants are not guaranteed legal status in the United States simply by
marrying -- before or after the new immigration laws go into effect on April 1,
according to immigration lawyers and the Federal Immigration and Naturalization
Service. It depends on the person and his or her immigration status. While there
are exceptions in the current law and the new immigration laws, the following
are the three most common situations.

An immigrant who enters the country legally and marries a citizen: immigration
officials interview the couple several months after the wedding and, after
reviewing an application, determine whether the marriage was legitimate. If so,
the immigrant is granted immediate permanent residency conditional on a second
interview two years later. Rather than waiting the normal five years, the
immigrant may apply for citizenship after three years.

An immigrant who enters the country illegally and marries a citizen: the
immigrant submits an application and conditional permanent residence is granted
if the marriage is deemed legitimate. But they go through a second step, which
amounts to applying for legal status.

This step costs an additional $1,000. But after Sept. 30, it could involve
having to travel abroad to apply at an American consulate.

A legal or illegal immigrant who marries a permanent resident: in either case,
the wait to apply for permanent residency is at least three years, but the
immigrant is given a preference over others without family connections. Illegal
immigrants who are waiting for legal status may be deported, if caught, whether
or not they are married.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The wait can last for hours, but many illegal immigrants are
desperate to wed, believing that marriage to a citizen will somehow protect them
from laws meant to discourage illegal residency. Barricades form the line at the
Municipal Building. Kumcha Yim, holding a bouquet in a crowd of other betrothed
couples, waits to marry Yong Ho Song. New businesses flourish as hawkers rent
plastic flowers or serve as witnesses -- for a fee. (Photographs by Linda Rosier
for The New York Times) (pg. 33); Couples waiting to get married were lined up
outside the door to the Queens marriage bureau, waiting to be let in a few at a
time. At the head of the line were Elvira Dominguez and Cesar Vasquez. (Linda
Rosier for The New York Times) (pg. 38)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Plays Word Games on Immigration;
A Hypocrisy License

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 134 words



To the Editor:

Put yourself in the position of a gay person told by society that he or she
cannot marry his or her beloved because "marriage is a sacrament" and a
privilege granted to heterosexuals who wish to make families.

Now imagine how that gay person might feel upon reading "A Love of Country, if
Not Each Other" (news article, March 9), on the upsurge in marriage licenses
granted to those who are not interested in making families and not necessarily
interested in each other.

I can tell you how: profoundly angered by the hypocrisy of a society that bases
this denial of the right to marry on "sacrament" and "morality," but grants the
right en masse and indiscriminately to any heterosexual who stands in line and
pays a fee.

REBECCA HAIDT
Columbus, Ohio, March 9, 1997

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Deadline Fear Exposes Many Immigrants to Fraud

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1596 words


The 22-year-old Bolivian immigrant's tourist visa had expired, and she was
scared. On Valentine's Day, she hastily married her American boyfriend at the
city's marriage bureau in Queens. But fellow immigrants warned her that, under
new laws, she could still be deported unless she rushed to get legal status by
April 1.

So last month she walked into a storefront office in Queens and reluctantly
handed a man $430 -- more than she and her husband earn in a week -- for help
with her paperwork. It was only after the man asked for another $1,000 that she
began to suspect she was being cheated.

But it was too late: when she asked him for copies of her papers and
fingerprints, he refused.

"He told me that first I had to pay him the rest of his fee, and then I could
get the file back," said the woman, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "Then
he got mad and said, 'I'm losing time and money with you.' " The woman left the
office early this month in tears, without her papers and with little hope of
seeing her money again.

With just a week before provisions of a strict new Federal immigration law take
effect, fear is driving many more immigrants in New York to gamble their money
on the services of such self-described immigration experts, who promise miracles
but rarely deliver more than bills and disappointment, advocates for immigrants
say.

The problem is compounded, they say, because those taking advantage of
immigrants usually operate with impunity. Law enforcement authorities have shown
little will to pursue the cases, which they view as low-level fraud. And even
when they do, they are often frustrated because the victims, most of them
illegal immigrants, are too afraid or embarrassed to come forward.

In most cases, it is a near-perfect crime -- a fact not lost on unscrupulous
operators. Immigrants, especially illegal immigrants, are "perfect patsies
because they don't know where to turn," said Antonio Meloni, executive director
of Immigration Advocacy Services, a nonprofit organization in Astoria, Queens,
that has counseled dozens of fraud victims. "There's no upside for them coming
forward to complain."

The schemes that snare them have been around for more than a decade: "tricks" to
improve the chances of winning the completely random green-card lottery, help in
extending visas that cannot be extended, reams of meaningless paperwork that
immigrants believe will secure work visas or speed the naturalization process.

But the so-called consultants, expediters, notaries and lawyers have stepped up
their activity in recent months. Those who provide free immigration help say
fraudulent consultants are now aggressively preying on anxieties surrounding
April 1, a date that has taken on dreaded implications in many immigrant
communities because parts of the new law will go into effect, making it harder
-- but not impossible -- for immigrants to enter the country or remain here
while applying for residency.

"A lot of them are telling people that if you don't apply for something by April
1, then you're not going to be able to apply for anything, and that's just not
true," said Gloria Aguirre, the director of the New York Immigration Hotline,
another nonprofit organization.

"They lie to get the case," Ms. Aguirre said, "and then they lie more after they
get the case."

Fees range from $50 to fill out simple lottery application forms to more than
$5,000 in some cases by consultants who claim to have connections with the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. The transactions are almost always in
cash.

Often, the help provided by such consultants can destroy an immigrant's chances
in a winnable case or land the immigrant in the hands of authorities.

A 43-year-old Jamaican woman who moved to the city eight years ago said she and
her husband had lost $4,000 two years ago to a woman who promised the couple
help in getting green cards. When they looked over their papers, they found that
she had actually filed applications for political asylum for them, fabricating a
claim that they had been beaten by the police in Kingston.

"I didn't tell her ask for asylum," said the woman, who, like the other victims
interviewed for this article, refused to allow her name to be used. She also
refused to name the consultant she claims defrauded her, because she fears that
the woman can still use her documents to have her arrested or deported.

After losing their money, the woman and her husband quickly packed up and moved
to another apartment. They continue to work, though with no hope of ever getting
green cards.

In other cases, advocates for immigrants say, consultants have urged immigrants
to get themselves into deportation hearings to take advantage of a law that
provides a chance of a green card for those who have been in the country more
than seven years. But a judge decides those cases, and immigrants' chances are
not good.

In the case of the Bolivian woman, she went to the store on Steinway Street in
Astoria, Queens, believing it was the nonprofit center operated by Mr. Meloni.
But the nonprofit had moved a block down the street last year, and the new
tenants in the office, All Stars Brokerage, an insurance company, promptly
erected an awning with the words "Immigration Services" above their door.

Mr. Meloni charges that over the last six months the owners of the new business
have led dozens of clients like the Bolivian woman to believe that they have
walked into his nonprofit center. Many of the people are then defrauded or given
inaccurate information, claimed Mr. Meloni, who sued the new business.

A State Supreme Court justice in Queens, Orin R. Kitzes, ordered the brokerage
late last month to stop its "deliberate misrepresentation of identity." But the
proprietors' sign remains and they continue to operate much as they did before.
They have not yet decided whether to appeal.

"I am me, and they are them," said Mohamed Elnicklawy, one of the owners,
sitting last week in a windowless back office of the brokerage. "A person has a
right to earn a living as long as he is not doing anything wrong." His partner,
Mohammad Asif, denied that the firm withheld the Bolivian woman's documents.
"It's a made-up story," he said. "I said to her, 'I did my part. You are not
able to give me my money.' I was very busy when she wanted copies."

Few such cases ever make it to a courtroom. And even when they do, prosecution
does little but slow fraudulent operations.

Last year, the New York Attorney General's office investigated a 68-year-old
Turkish man who worked in a sleek office building in lower Manhattan and claimed
he was a lawyer with immigration expertise. A Bulgarian couple seeking an
extension of their visas paid him $690 for his services, but he did nothing for
the money, the couple claims.

The man, A. K. Dogan, who is not a lawyer, was allowed to plead guilty to
unauthorized practice of law, a misdemeanor, on the condition that he return the
couple's money. But he never did, and early this month, a warrant was issued for
his arrest.

Informed about the warrant by a reporter, Mr. Dogan went from his office
building to a press room in the basement of City Hall, where he insisted in an
interview that he was providing a useful and legitimate service. "I've never
told anyone that I'm an attorney," he said. When asked about the money he owed
the couple, Mr. Dogan, who walked with a cane, said, "I'm going to pay, but I
was in the hospital and don't have any money." He then left City Hall and walked
down the street to the State Attorney General's office, where he turned himself
in and was arrested for violating the terms of his conditional release. Asked
later if he planned to continue his business, he said, "Of course. Definitely.
I'm not doing anything wrong."

Marc Carey, a spokesman for Dennis C. Vacco, the Attorney General, said one of
the only weapons available to fight immigration consumer fraud is the statute
barring illegal practice of law, which as a misdemeanor usually means a fine of
no more than $1,000.

"Obviously, there are limited resources," he said. "And misdemeanor cases become
hard to devote all your resources to." Officials have discussed asking the State
Legislature to make the crime a felony.

But many legitimate immigration lawyers say they doubt the resolve of law
enforcement authorities. Robert Beluscio, who practices in Queens, said a group
of immigration lawyers formed a professional committee in the late 1980's to
call attention to the problem of unauthorized practice of law among immigration
consultants. But he said the panel disbanded in 1992 because it had received
little cooperation from city, state and Federal authorities. It sent more than
100 deceptive advertisements to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, he
said, and "to our knowledge not one action was taken against any one of them."

Mark Thorn, an I.N.S. spokesman, concedes that the cases are not pursued by
their investigators unless forged documents are involved. "The other cases are
considered consumer fraud," he said.

Meanwhile, the problem continues. Last Wednesday, at St. Brigid's Roman Catholic
Church in Bushwick, Brooklyn, a distraught 36-year-old Ecuadorean woman walked
in to plead for help from Msgr. James J. Kelly, who is also an immigration
lawyer. She said she had given her savings, $600, to a woman who promised to
speed her naturalization process. The woman took her money and disappeared.

"She cheated me," the woman said. "She has all my records, all my documents, so
I can't apply anywhere else."


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 25, 1997, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

An article on Sunday about immigration fraud misspelled the surname of an
immigration lawyer in Flushing, Queens. He is Robert Belluscio.


GRAPHIC: Photo: This insurance office on Steinway Street in Astoria, Queens,
lures immigrants with signs claiming to offer help obtaining legal residency.
(James Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. 41)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Four-Way Effort to Extend U.S. Aid for Immigrants

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Carolyn McCarthy, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and
Representative Peter T. King, far right, heard Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani
announce his support yesterday for their three bills to help legal immigrants.
The bills, to be introduced tomorrow, would delay for six months the Aug. 22
cutoff date for Federal benefits to legal elderly and disabled immigrants who
have already applied for citizenship. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 27, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New York Health Insurance Plan for Children Draws Wide Attention

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1644 words


As lawmakers across the nation struggle to find ways to offer affordable health
care coverage to millions of uninsured children, New York's rapidly expanding
program for subsidized health insurance is attracting national attention and
some scrutiny.

The program, Child Health Plus, insures children whose parents are between jobs
or have jobs that offer no health coverage; whose families have assets or
incomes too high for Medicaid coverage but who cannot afford commercial
insurance, or whose status as illegal immigrants does not allow them to get most
government benefits.

It subsidizes insurance for children up to the age of 19 in families whose gross
household income is less than 222 percent of the Federal poverty level, allowing
the children to receive virtually any type of outpatient care, including
well-child checkups, ambulatory surgery, dialysis, immunizations, emergency
care, lab tests, chemotherapy and prescription drugs.

The Federal poverty level for a family of four is a net income of about $16,000
a year, meaning that a family of four with a gross income of up to about $35,000
a year would be eligible for subsidized coverage through the program.

By all accounts, Child Health Plus has so far been a remarkable and quiet
success, giving uninsured children in New York, since 1991, the kind of
subsidized health coverage that Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of
Massachusetts, and Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, have proposed and that is
quickly winning strong bipartisan support in Washington.

This summer, the New York program will add, for the first time, hospitalization
benefits to cover children who require any overnight stays or major surgery.
When it does that, it will also require, for the first time, monthly premium
payments for all but the poorest families, and a $2 payment for most doctor
visits.

But as the state pushes to expand Child Health Plus both in the number of
children served and in the breadth of care offered, many people who receive and
provide its care are concerned that clients will not be able to afford larger
contributions to their premiums for the sake of adding inpatient hospital
benefits that most will never need. They fear that recipients may feel
financially pressed into dropping their coverage.

"Sure, the expansion in covering inpatient care is terrific on its face," said
Georganne Chapin, the president and chief executive of the Westchester Prepaid
Health Services Plan/HealthSource.

"But it comes with a substantial additional cost. And we believe the additional
cost on the enrollees is so significant, it will probably cause many folks not
to sign up or to drop out."

For three years after Carmen Moll, of the Castle Hill section of the Bronx,
became disabled by multiple sclerosis and lost her job and the health care
benefits that came with it, she prayed that her son, Anthony, would stay healthy
and safe. Although Medicare took care of Ms. Moll's medical expenses, her Social
Security and disability benefits were too high to qualify Anthony, now 13, for
Medicaid and too meager for her to afford costly private insurance.

When a friend told her about Child Health Plus, she thought her fears had been
put to rest. She signed up, and for $25 a year in premiums, Anthony was able to
see a doctor when his ear hurt and when he needed vaccinations. He also had an
annual physical.

But when Ms. Moll heard the program would soon be expanding to include
hospitalization coverage and that, as a result, she might have to start
contributing more toward the premium and paying $2 for each doctor visit, her
worries returned.

"I would hate to have my son go again without insurance. It made me so nervous
all the time," said Ms. Moll, who had worked as a clerk for the census bureau.
"I just don't know if I can handle the cost."

State officials, including Gov. George E. Pataki, said they had carefully
weighed the risks before deciding to add inpatient services -- and steeper
consumer costs -- to the program. They said they concluded that the potential
consequences of having no hospitalization benefits were so catastrophic, most
people would be willing to bear a greater contribution to protect their
families.

The officials noted that under the new rules, which are to take effect this
summer, people at the lowest income levels would still have to contribute
nothing to the plan, and that the contributions would be on a sliding scale,
with a cap on the premiums any family would be required to pay.

"It's always a balancing act between breadth of coverage and cost," Governor
Pataki said. But he added, "I think it's very important that parents facing a
major hospital expense for a child won't have to worry about not being able to
handle it."

Mr. Pataki predicted that the number of children in the program would double by
1999, spurred by a jump in financing authorized under the state's Health Reform
Act of 1996, which will raise the program's budget to $207 million in 1999 from
$82 million in 1996.

Attracting larger numbers of families, however, will require a better marketing
strategy, several health care experts said, because so many families are unaware
that the program exists.

"Actually getting people to sign up for these programs and understand their
eligibility is a real problem," said James R. Tallon Jr., the president of
United Hospital Fund, a research and philanthropic group, "particularly at a
time when there is a lot of anti-immigrant and anti-welfare backlash."

"Remarkably," he said, "there are a large number of people who don't spend their
days reading the Federal and state register and don't seem to get connected to
the programs for which they are eligible. And that means there are people out
there not getting the proper health care for their children or waiting to get it
until there's a crisis because they can't afford it and don't know that this is
an option for them."

The Census Bureau estimates that New York State has 620,000 uninsured children,
23 percent of whom are in families with gross incomes above 222 percent of the
poverty level (which is still considered low income), 45 percent of whom are
eligible for Medicaid but have not signed up, and 32 percent of whom are
eligible for but not using Child Health Plus.

People who run many of the health service plans that deliver care to Child
Health Plus clients said that with the new rules and price structure, the
program may have a difficult time not only increasing enrollment, but even
keeping many of its current enrollees.

They cautioned national lawmakers looking at Child Health Plus -- and at
subsidized insurance programs for children that have succeeded in Connecticut,
Massachusetts and other states -- to monitor the impact of higher fees on
families' decisions to sign up for such programs.

"We surveyed our clients about this and we were startled," said Jim Stiles, the
executive vice president of Lutheran Medical Center and vice chairman of the
board of Health Plus, the hospital's managed care program. "It was overwhelming
how many families said they were unable or unwilling to pay this extra cost and
might have to disenroll."

Under the new rules, for households with a gross income up to 120 percent of the
Federal poverty level, no contribution to the premium will be required.

In households with a gross income between 120 and 159 percent of the poverty
level, there will be a $9 per child monthly fee, which will not exceed $36 per
month for any family.

And for households whose gross income is between 160 and 222 percent of the
poverty level, the fee will be $13 per child each month, up to a family maximum
of $52. Families above that level can join the program and pay the full premium
themselves, which is still cheaper than most commercial plans.

In addition, there will be a $2 co-payment for all doctor visits except for
preventive checkups or visits provided when a child is hospitalized.

Families whose income is less than 160 percent of the Federal poverty level are
fully subsidized, while families earning from 160 to 221 percent of the poverty
level pay $25 per child each year, with a maximum annual fee of $100 per family.

"People at 222 percent of poverty still have a very low income for New York,"
said Maura Bluestone, president of the Bronx Health Plan. "If they've got four
kids, you could be talking about $624 pretax dollars for premiums a year, and
you have to remember, hospitalizations for children may be very expensive, but
they are also very rare."

Ms. Bluestone said she was worried that families who chose to sign up under the
new rules would overwhelmingly be those with very sick children who require
frequent hospitalizations.

Executives of many plans said they had hoped the state would offer families the
option of signing up for hospital coverage with a fee, or keeping
outpatient-only coverage.

But Dr. Barbara A. DeBuono, the State Health Commissioner, said that it was not
fiscally possible for the state to offer a choice to families and that the
Pataki administration felt strongly that the plan needed to offer comprehensive
services.

"This was definitely a trade-off," Dr. DeBuono said, "but I think having the
full insurance component was worth it, and the only way that works for us is to
increase the payments. We made a judgment. And this is far more affordable than
any of the other options out there."

Mr. Tallon of the United Hospital Fund said that the changes in price and
services were so significant that state officials -- and people nationwide
looking to emulate Child Health Plus -- would need to watch very closely to see
how consumers respond. "This has been an incredibly attractive model," he said.
"But it now has to meet a new test. Despite more available services, being more
expensive, will it still be as attractive to the poor?"


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Insuring the Uninsured"
Child Health Plus is a New York State program that provides children in
low-income families with insurance for outpatient services.

Of the 620,000 uninsured children in New York State, the Census Bureau estimates
. . .

. . . 280,000 (45%) are eligible for Medicaid but have not applied for benefits.

. . . 200,000 (32%) are eligible for Child Health Plus, but have not applied for
benefits.

. . . 140,000 (23%) are not eligible for Government subsidies because their
families earn more than 222% of poverty level (about $35,000 a year for a family
of 4)

Graph tracks Child Health Plus enrollment and budget from 1991 through a
projected 1999. (Source: New York State Department of Health) (pg. 39)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 24, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Seeking To Strip 5,000 Of Citizenship

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 997 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 23


The Clinton Administration will seek to strip the citizenship of nearly 5,000
immigrants who were wrongly naturalized in an immigration drive last year,
Federal officials said today.

Revoking that many citizenships at any given time is without precedent for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, and it poses enormous legal and
logistical challenges for the Federal Government. Until now, the agency has
never dealt with more than about two dozen revocations a year.

Beginning last fall, Republicans accused the Administration of mounting an
election-year campaign to streamline citizenship procedures to allow more than
180,000 immigrants to become citizens before the November elections without
having their criminal records fully checked.

As a result of these criticisms, the I.N.S. undertook a review of the nearly 1.1
million people who were granted citizenship from September 1995 to last
September to determine how many were wrongfully naturalized.

An audit whose findings were released to Congress today found that 16,400 of the
new citizens had a record of at least one felony arrest. Arrest or conviction,
by itself, is not grounds for revoking someone's citizenship.

But the audit, which is nearly complete, also found 4,946 cases in which a
criminal arrest should have disqualified an applicant or in which an applicant
lied about his or her criminal history.

"We believe that we are on firm ground in proceeding on administrative
revocations where somebody has factually made a misrepresentation on a felony
arrest," Assistant Attorney General Stephen Colgate said at a news conference
today.

Today's findings mark the latest blow to the beleaguered immigration agency and
its Citizenship U.S.A. program. The program was started in late 1995 to address
a mounting backlog of citizenship applications, but Republicans contend that it
has been hijacked by White House political operatives along the way for
electioneering purposes.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, issued a
set of sweeping safeguards to prevent immigrants with criminal records from
becoming citizens. But an independent review concluded in April that many of the
agency's own employees had ignored the directives.

Representative Lamar Smith, a Texas Republican who has been the Administration's
most severe critic on the citizenship issue, praised the immigration service
today for "making good progress" in tracking down the scofflaws.

"The big question is, 'Is the I.N.S. going to be successful in correcting their
mistakes, are they going to be successful in denaturalizing these roughly 5,000
individuals who were wrongly made citizens?' " Mr. Smith said.

In some cases, the offenses may be serious enough, such as a felony conviction
for rape or murder, that an individual could have his citizenship revoked and be
deported to his native country.

But lying under oath to an immigration examiner is not by itself a deportable
offense, and in those circumstances a naturalized citizen would revert to a
legal resident alien.

The immigration agency faces enormous hurdles in revoking the citizenship of the
immigrants. In the 1995 fiscal year, the latest year for which figures are
available, the agency revoked the citizenship of 20 people in procedures that
typically took months to complete.

In the past few months, the immigration agency has adopted a simpler revocation
process that no longer requires each case to go before a Federal court judge.
Under the new system, an immigration administrative officer decides a revocation
case; a defendant can appeal the decision to a Federal judge.

Carole Florman, a Justice Department spokeswoman, said the time to process each
revocation case would depend on whether an individual contests the process, but
could range from days to months.

As to when the nearly 5,000 revocation cases would be completed, Ms. Florman
said, "I have no idea."

The immigration agency's general counsel, David Martin, is expected to provide
to Congress on June 22 an approximate schedule of when the agency thinks it can
complete the revocation proceedings, Ms. Florman said.

At that time, the immigration agency is also expected to ask for more money from
Congress to hire additional lawyers and clerks to help deal with the sudden
mountain of revocation proceedings.

Of the 4,946 problematic cases that the audit identified, 296 of the immigrants
were convicted felons and 2,507 had lied about their criminal history and had a
felony arrest or conviction that might have disqualified them from citizenship.

The remaining 2,143 will face revocation proceedings because they lied when
asked whether they had ever been arrested, but had only minor offenses. If they
had told the truth and said yes, their offenses would not have disqualified them
or threatened their citizenship.

In addition to the nearly 5,000 immigrants who were wrongfully naturalized, the
immigration agency has been trying to determine how many of the 180,000 people
whose criminal backgrounds were never properly checked might have been
wrongfully naturalized, too.

It is much harder to weed out the wrongfully made citizens in this group because
in many cases, their applications were filled out improperly or the fingerprints
that must accompany any application were illegible or missing.

So immigration officials, working with specialists from the accounting firm
KPMG/Peat Marwick, have gone through a painstaking match of each individual's
name against the Federal Bureau of Investigation's criminal data base.

This review turned up 9,100 people who had the same name as someone in the
criminal data base. Whether they are one and the same person, and whether their
offenses would disqualify them, is still under review.

The auditors are also reviewing the records of 300 newly naturalized citizens
who were arrested on misdemeanors, such as prostitution, that could result in
the revocation of their citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 19, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Bill Stops Forcing States To Educate Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;   Page 26;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 178 words


To the Editor:

Given the many thousands of words you have published in criticism of my
education amendment to the House immigration bill (Op-Ed, July 11; letters, July
15), I thought you would consider a few words in defense of this sound public
policy.

Senators Phil Gramm and Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and some others seem to
think that this legislation is designed to "kick" kids out of school. In fact,
it doesn't say that anyone should be kicked out of anywhere. It simply says that
the Federal Government should no longer force states to bear the cost of
educating those with no legal right to be in this country. It removes an immense
unfinanced Federal mandate and allows state governors to chart their own course
in these matters.

If this amendment becomes law, as I believe it will, there is little doubt that
many states will continue educating illegals. Some will not. The amendment
embraces either decision, because it concerns solely where such decisions are
made and by whom.

(Rep.) ELTON GALLEGLY
Washington, July 16, 1996

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: IMMIGRATION;
Dole Rejects a Party Plank

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 10;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Aug. 23


Publicly repudiating a portion of his party's platform for the first time since
the Republican National Convention, Bob Dole told a convention of black
journalists here today that he would not support a constitutional amendment to
deny automatic citizenship for children who are born in this country to illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Dole, who made no secret at the convention that he had not yet read the
entire platform, implied today that he had now given it a more thorough review
and did not like everything he saw, including the proposed immigration
amendment.

"I have due respect for the platform," Mr. Dole said. "I read a lot of parts
that I thought were essential. I approved of a lot of parts that I thought were
essential. That was not one of them."

Asked directly by a journalist in the audience if he would support such an
amendment, Mr. Dole answered with a quick and emphatic, "No."

When Mr. Dole had been asked at the Republican convention about the same
immigration amendment -- one of the more conservative and sensitive planks -- he
did not oppose it, but said he would have to think long and hard before
supporting it.

Mr. Dole's more decisive stand today did not please some Republicans.

"It's disturbing, because I believe that the Republican platform stated what is
the broad consensus of the party, and of America," said Representative Bill
McCollum of Florida, sponsor of a bill for a constitutional amendment
challenging automatic citizenship for children of illegal immigrants. The bill
is currently in the House Judiciary Committee, of which Mr. McCollum is a
ranking member.

Mr. McCollum said that he always knew that Mr. Dole had qualms about the bill,
but that he had wondered whether Mr. Dole's bolder dissent today betrayed the
effect and influence of his running mate, Jack Kemp, who has been an outspoken
advocate of immigrant and minority rights.

"Jack has his ear now," Mr. McCollum said. "I suggest it's probably Jack who has
influenced him on this subject."

Mr. Dole's comments today were made before hundreds of men and women attending a
convention of the National Association of Black Journalists. Four reporters
participating in the convention were allowed to ask Mr. Dole or Mr. Kemp
questions.

It was Jane Tillman Irving, a radio reporter from New York, who asked the
immigration question.

"For generations, white children of white immigrants, regardless of their
status, enjoyed citizenship," Ms. Irving said. "Now that the new immigrants are
black and brown, would you support a constitutional amendment denying them
citizenship?"

"No," Mr. Dole said.

The platform's proposed immigration amendment and its call for the outlawing of
abortion even in cases of rape, incest and the endangered life of the mother
were the most conspicuous examples of positions more conservative than those
traditionally held by Mr. Dole in his 35 years as a legislator.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 15, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

September 8-14;
Newly Minted Americans

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 2;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 97 words


Last week 6,000 people from 80 countries became citizens in Houston. On Tuesday
10,000 will take the oath outside Dallas; on Wednesday, 12,000 to 15,000 in San
Jose, Calif. In unprecedented numbers, in mass swearings-in, newly minted
citizens are renouncing their native lands for a country caught up in a fever of
anti-immigrant laws and xenophobic sentiment. Changes in immigration policy have
also enabled more naturalizations. By the end of the this month, 1.1 million
immigrants will have become citizens; last year 445,853 were sworn in,
shattering a record set in 1944.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 23, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Why The Cruelty?

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;   Page 15;   Column 1;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 719 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


A government agency with a history of abuse is called to account by the courts.
The government's answer is to immunize the agency from legal challenges to its
policies and practices.

The scenario sounds like one from Singapore or some other authoritarian country.
We know it can't happen here. But it can, and it will, if an immigration bill
now nearing completion in Congress is passed and signed by President Clinton.

The immigration measure has dozens of harsh features. But its most stunning
provision would forbid any court in the United States except the Supreme Court
to enjoin the Immigration and Naturalization Service from continuing a practice
that is against the law or the Constitution.

The exception for the Supreme Court is essentially meaningless. It does not have
the time or the means to hold the detailed fact-finding hearings in which other
courts in recent years have found racial discrimination and other kinds of
lawlessness on the part of the I.N.S.

The idea of immunizing a government agency from being called to account in the
courts goes against what most Americans have thought was the theme of our
system: government under law. To do it for one of the most troubled of all
Federal agencies, the I.N.S., is a step so extreme that it is hard to believe it
is happening. But it is.

Republicans in Congress have drafted a conference report on immigration bills
passed by the House and Senate that includes the court-stripping provision.
Their version of the legislation may reach the floor this week.

Public attention has focused on a House amendment that would bar children of
illegal immigrants from public schools. But other sections of the final
compromise already agreed to by Republican members would also have drastic
consequences.

Gov. George Pataki and other New York officials have expressed deep concern at
provisions of the recently enacted welfare reform law that would make immigrants
ineligible for some Federal programs. The immigration bill, as drafted by the
Republican conferees, would go farther.

One provision -- among too many even to list -- would make retroactive the
welfare bill's restrictions on the use of various public programs by legal
immigrants. The restrictions would now apply to people lawfully admitted during
the last five years.

For example, a woman who came to the United States legally three years ago, who
is pregnant and has been abandoned by her husband, leaving her desperate, could
be barred from prenatal care and Medicaid.

An especially harsh section of the bill applies to people who come to this
country seeking asylum from persecution. President Clinton's counterterrorism
bill, approved last spring, included a section drastically limiting asylum
procedures. The Senate, when it considered the immigration bill, voted to make
that change less harsh. The Republican conference report sets up a new,
stringent procedure.

A refugee who reaches our shores with false papers or none -- as has often been
the case since Jews fled Nazi Germany -- would have to persuade an immigration
officer that she has a "credible fear of persecution." If turned down, she could
get review by an immigration judge. That would have to take place within 24
hours, if possible, but in any case within seven days. The review could be by
telephone or a video connection. The refugee would have no right to a lawyer,
even at her own expense -- and in any event there would hardly be time to get
one. The I.N.S. decision could not be reviewed by any court.

Not only in the drastic asylum provision but in petty matters the bill would
turn the screw on immigrants. For example, aliens paroled into this country --
many Cubans are in that category -- would be forbidden after one year to have a
driver's license.

Altogether, it is an extraordinarily vindictive piece of legislation. The
question is why. Why should Congress choose this moment, a time of prosperity,
to turn against our traditions and beat up on refugees and lawful immigrants?

Perhaps the Gingrich Republicans in the House, frustrated in their desire to
wreck environmental protections, are working their feelings out against a target
they think is politically weak. But the issue is not really immigration. It is
our faithfulness to American values of law and fairness.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 6;  Metropolitian Desk

LENGTH: 89 words


A front-page article on Tuesday about an agreement by Republican Congressional
leaders to drop a disputed provision of a new immigration bill misidentified the
place where Bob Dole's campaign manager, Scott Reed, told two Republican
lawmakers that Mr. Dole did not want Congress to pass an immigration bill that
President Clinton could claim as his own. (An article on Sept. 13 also included
the error.) The meeting, on Sept. 12, took place at the Dole campaign
headquarters near Capitol Hill; it was not a Congressional office.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 30, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Has Record of Success;
Discrimination

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words


To the Editor:

One could cite about 187 propositions to counter Bharati Mukherjee's claims made
on behalf of applying for citizenship in this country (Op-Ed, Sept. 22). The
current measures taken against immigrants are not an invitation to apply for
citizenship, as Ms. Mukherjee seems to believe. They are a continuation of a
policy of discrimination that, as the historian Vijay Prashad has put it,
"accepts the labor but not the lives" of others.

Six years ago, Ms. Mukherjee offered the dictum: "Make the familiar exotic, the
exotic familiar." In the light of her recent piece, it sounds like the motto
engraved on the very fair forehead of a global traveling salesman.

AMITAVA KUMAR
Gainesville, Fla., Sept. 26, 1996
The writer is assistant professor of English, University of Florida.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 2, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Speaking Up for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 641 words


At a time of rising attacks on immigrants as a blight on American life, it is
certainly fitting for the Mayor of New York City to stand up for the values
symbolized by the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor. But Mayor Rudolph
Giuliani's recent criticism of the new Federal welfare law, which cruelly cuts
off basic social services even to legal immigrants, is welcome because it
springs from much more than tradition and a spirit of charity. Mr. Giuliani
rightly argues that punishing immigrants is self-defeating. It violates basic
constitutional principles and overlooks the valuable economic and social
contribution that immigrants make every day.

Recent waves of immigrants have rescued neighborhoods throughout New York City,
brought an entrepreneurial spirit that has spawned new enterprises and provided
a pool of labor that has let established businesses grow and thrive. Since large
portions of the white middle class have fled to the suburbs or elsewhere in the
last 20 years, the major reason the city has not declined in population is an
influx of new arrivals from the Caribbean, Asia and the former Soviet Union. For
the most part, contrary to popular conception, these immigrant groups are not on
welfare any more than the native-born portion of the population.

Much of the attention paid to the recently enacted welfare legislation focused
on the work requirements and time limits imposed on poor families. But the $54
billion in savings required by the new law over the next five years entails cuts
in the food-stamp program for all recipients and a denial of food stamps and
other benefits to legal immigrants, except those who become citizens or have
worked in the United States for 10 years. Since those very same immigrants pay
taxes and contribute their work and energy to their communities, it is morally
repugnant to change the rules after they have come to the United States and
leave them no recourse if they become disabled or their families break apart.

Since neither the city nor the state can afford to spend the hundreds of
millions of dollars it might take to make up for the losses in Federal support,
Mr. Giuliani will have to follow up his criticism by pushing the next Congress
to reverse the parts of the new welfare legislation that punish immigrants. Gov.
George Pataki has also spoken out against the provisions that hurt immigrants.
If he joins with Mr. Giuliani and other Republicans, they could be especially
effective because they also enthusiastically support the work-requirement part
of the law.

Until now, Mr. Giuliani has avoided the role that some of his predecessors
staked out as national urban spokesmen. Voters in New York City have not always
looked kindly to mayors who spend much time tending to politics outside the
city's borders. But it is in the city's interest for Mr. Giuliani to address
these issues nationally. With his record of lowering crime and putting welfare
recipients to work, he has the standing to speak up for the immigrant tradition.

No doubt the Mayor is playing this role knowing that it might help him in the
election next year. The City Planning Department estimates that there are about
2.3 million foreign-born people in New York City. Many are voters, and many more
are likely to become voters because of the boom in naturalization that has been
spurred by new laws affecting immigrants. But like many children and
grandchildren of immigrants, Mr. Giuliani is obviously also speaking from the
heart on the subject. As the Mayor of a city that has always thrived on each new
wave of immigrants and through them renewed itself as a place of energy,
competition and cultural variety, Mr. Giuliani may well be able to tip the
balance against the self-destructive and xenophobic attitudes that other
politicians have courted in the last few years.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 3, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Spur to Immigrants;
No More Mutilation

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 125 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis, referring in his Sept. 27 column to the 19-year-old woman who
fled her homeland in Togo to avoid genital mutilation, said that because I
supported an immigration bill that restricts the rights of asylum applicants, I
"wanted women like Fauziya Kassindja to be denied asylum without a fair hearing
or appeal, and sent home to be mutilated." I abhor the inhumane practice of
female genital mutilation. I supported granting asylum to Ms. Kassindja, and I
support listing the practice as a method of persecution warranting asylum in the
United States so that women like Ms. Kassindja will not be turned away when
fleeing such cruelty.

DIANNE FEINSTEIN
U.S. Senator from California
Washington, Sept. 27, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 8, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Democrats by Default

BYLINE: By Samuel G. Freedman;   Samuel G. Freedman is the author of "The
Inheritance: How Three Families and America Moved from Roosevelt to Reagan and
Beyond."

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 1180 words


Two or three times a week during the early 1900's, as the latest steamship
reached Baltimore with its cargo of Polish immigrants, a laborer named
Aleksander Obrycki sprung into his personal ritual of welcome. Newly naturalized
himself, he met the latest arrivals at the dockside, guided them to the Polish
enclave of Fells Point and began instruction in the glories of democracy.

More precisely, he taught them enough American history to pass the citizenship
examination, and as soon as they did he escorted them to the local Democratic
clubhouse to register to vote. For this public service, the ward boss paid Mr.
Obrycki several dollars a head.

The same scene was unfolding simultaneously in scores of American cities,
including New York with Tammany Hall and Mayor Curley's Boston. At the outset,
the bargain between the Democratic machine and the immigrant voter could not
have been more pragmatic. The machine gave the immigrant a job or a garbage can
or some cash on Election Day; the immigrant gave the machine his or her vote and
a wide berth for corruption.

But something more profound was transpiring. The urban machines, however
unsavory their style, offered the waves of Catholic and Jewish newcomers a
foothold in the American political system. By the sheer weight of their numbers
-- 20 million immigrants entered America between 1880 and 1924 -- these voters
help to wrest the Democratic Party from the nativist grasp of William Jennings
Bryan. Then they formed the backbone of the New Deal coalition.

Only a few generations later did the descendants of those newcomers migrate in
large numbers to the Republican camp, and in doing so they helped to elect
Ronald Reagan in 1980 and a Republican Congress in 1994. Aleksander Obrycki's
great-granddaughter, Leslie Maeby, today works as an aide to a Republican, Gov.
George Pataki.

Now history seems about to repeat itself, once again to the peril of the
Republican Party. Trying to seize an election-year issue by punishing illegal
immigrants, the Republicans seem to be inadvertently pushing millions of legal
immigrants into the political system; and while exact voter registration figures
are not available, the G.O.P.'s harsh stance appears likely to persuade a
disproportionate share of the newly enfranchised to seek sanctuary in the
Democratic Party. If the past offers any guide to the future, the Republican
Party may not recover from the electoral consequences of its choice for decades.

The 16 million legal immigrants admitted to the United States since Congress
relaxed quotas in 1965 could constitute a major voting bloc. Yet the 1990 census
found that nearly 12 million foreign-born residents were not yet naturalized.
Among Dominicans, the largest immigrant group in New York City, fewer than one
in four has gained citizenship.

There is no particular reason that the Democratic Party should hold a franchise
on these and other immigrants' loyalties. Aleksander Obrycki's type of political
machine collapsed a long time ago. Today's immigrant is far more likely than his
or her equivalent at the turn of the century to hail from the middle class, even
if language barriers and underemployment obscure their backgrounds. The
Colombian woman assembling dolls in a factory may have been an accountant in
Bogota; the Indian man running a newsstand in the subway may hold an engineering
degree from Madras. Blacks who came to America from the West Indies as
immigrants, rather than from Africa as slaves, share with many white ethnics
faith in home ownership and upward mobility.

For Hispanic immigrants in particular, both Catholicism and evangelical
Protestantism exert a strong social conservatism -- as New York City's former
Schools Chancellor, Joseph Fernandez, discovered when many Hispanic parents, his
allies on most other issues, rose in protest against a curriculum teaching
tolerance for gay life styles.

Such disparate groups as Koreans and Palestinians have become the merchants who
endure both crime and resentment from their impoverished clientele.
Asian-American students, the highest achievers among any minorities on
standardized tests, suffer when affirmative action influences college
admissions.

So why should the immigrants' vote be a Democratic vote? Plenty of conservative
Republicans have sought their support. By some estimates, Ronald Reagan took
one-third of the Hispanic vote in his second Presidential campaign. In 1994,
both Jack Kemp and William Bennett campaigned against California's Proposition
187, which provides for limits on public services to illegal immigrants. The
Wall Street Journal's editorial page has extolled immigrants for their work
ethic and entrepreneurial spirit.

Meanwhile, on the Democratic side, such standard-bearers as the late Barbara
Jordan pushed for drastically lowered immigration levels. President Clinton
bears as much responsibility as the Republican Congress for enacting a welfare
law that denies food stamps and Supplemental Security Income to legal
immigrants. And influential liberal writers like Michael Lind and Roy Beck have
blamed immigrants for undercutting wages and eroding a national culture.

But in the pyrrhic pursuit of California's electoral votes this November, Bob
Dole and even Mr. Kemp (reversing his own earlier position) embraced the odious
proposal to oust the children of illegal immigrants from public schools. Even
after severing that measure from an immigration bill, Republicans in Congress
tried vainly to include a provision allowing for the deportation of legal
immigrants who stay on public aid too long and another that would have denied
federally financed treatment for those with AIDS or H.I.V.

One result of this anti-immigrant fervor among Republicans is that President
Clinton suddenly looks like the immigrants' champion. Another is that, catalyzed
by fear rather than patriotism, immigrants have been taking and passing the
citizenship test this year in numbers unseen in a half-century. In 1996, nearly
1.1 million immigrants will have become citizens, shattering the record set last
year of 445,853 naturalizations, according to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

Grace Lyu-Volckhausen, a founder of the Coalition of Korean-American Voters,
estimated that Korean immigrants split their ballots evenly between the parties
in the 1992 Presidential election. This November, she predicted, "They will be
much more for the Democrats because of the immigration issue, because they don't
want to be a political football."

For the moment, the enfranchisement of millions of immigrants may not sway
national elections. But if, years from now, anyone looks for the moment the next
realignment of American politics began, it may have had little to do with who
won this year's Presidential race. Rather, the change could well have commenced
in the months leading up to Election Day, when the ghost of William Jennings
Bryan -- the man who once told an audience full of immigrants, "You are not the
future of our country" -- took possession of the Republican Party.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

New Law Bans Genital Cutting In United States

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1464 words


Congress outlawed the rite of female genital cutting in the United States just
before it recessed two weeks ago, and directed Federal authorities to inform new
immigrants from countries where it is commonly practiced that parents who
arrange for their children to be cut here, as well as people who perform the
cutting, face up to five years in prison.

The new law also requires United States representatives to the World Bank and
other international financial institutions that have lent billions of dollars to
the 28 African countries where the practice exists to oppose loans to
governments that have not carried out educational programs to prevent it.

Support for these measures -- included in an end-of-session spending bill --
mounted this year as the case of Fauziya Kassindja, a young woman who fled Togo
to avoid having her genitals cut off and sought asylum here, gained attention in
the American news media, Government officials said.

"You keep trying to explain that this is not circumcision," said Representative
Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado, who along with Senator Harry Reid,
Democrat of Nevada, has repeatedly introduced bills in past sessions to outlaw
the practice. "This is more like Lorena Bobbitt. Once they really find out it
goes on and is not some victim fantasy we're having, they're horrified."

Experts say there is no way to measure how many girls are being genitally cut in
the United States since the rite is usually performed privately.

But the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recently estimated that more
than 150,000 women and girls of African origin or ancestry in the United States
may be at risk of the rite or have already been cut. Researchers developed these
rough estimates by matching 1990 Census Bureau population data on the number of
girls and women whose families came from the African countries where the
practice is customary with estimates of the prevalence of the rite in those
countries.

New York and Newark, as well as Los Angeles and Washington, are among the
metropolitan areas where the largest number of these girls and women live,
according to the estimates.

The data was gathered in response to an April directive from Congress. At that
time, Congress also told Federal health officials to develop a program to
educate immigrants about the dangers of the practice, which they are now doing.

The Federal ban on genital cutting, which takes effect six months after the
law's passage on Sept. 30, comes as states and health workers are increasingly
debating how to respond to a cultural practice that is a highly valued rite of
passage among some African immigrants, but is abhorred by many Americans.

California, Minnesota, Tennessee, Rhode Island and North Dakota are among the
states that have outlawed the practice in the last two years, Congressional
researchers say.

A group of physicians at the the Harborview Medical Center, a public hospital in
Seattle, have taken a different view. After Somali mothers repeatedly requested
that their daughters be genitally cut in the hospital, the doctors proposed what
they considered a largely symbolic form of the ritual: nicking the tip of a
girl's clitoris, with her consent, under a local anesthetic. No tissue would be
removed, they said. The proposal has stirred an emotionally charged debate
there.

"I think that this is an issue that should be decided by a physician, the family
and the child," Abraham Bergman, chief of pediatrics at the hospital, said.
"Privacy should prevail and the brouhaha is inappropriate."

It is not clear whether the procedure being proposed in Seattle would violate
the new law against what Congress termed "female genital mutilation," Government
officials said.

The Federal law provides for the prosecution of anyone who "circumcises,
excises, or infibulates the whole or any part of the labia majora or labia
minora or clitoris of another person who has not attained the age of 18."
Infibulation involves stitching together the labia to largely cover the vagina.

Members of Congress say they believe the United States needs to send a clear,
forceful message to immigrants here that female genital cutting is a practice
they must abandon.

They say the United States should follow the example of the French, who over the
last 10 to 15 years have criminally prosecuted parents in more than 30 families
from Mali, Mauritania, Gambia and Senegal for the excision of daughters. Such
cases are usually reported to the police by doctors, who detect the practice
while examining the girls. Usually, the convicted parents have been given
suspended sentences, though ocassionally they get prison time.

"At first, the doctors hesitated, saying, 'We cannot betray families,' " said
Linda Weil-Curiel, a lawyer who is France's leading crusader against the
practice. "I said, 'Your first obligation is to the child. If you do not report
a family when you notice they practice excision, then the next child born will
be excised, too. You bear the responsibility.' "

The Congressional push to outlaw genital cutting in the United States was led by
a handful of senators and representatives. Senator Reid, the point man in the
Senate, said he first lost sleep over this issue in 1994 after CNN broadcast a
video of a 10-year-old Egyptian girl being cut.

"They grab her and hold her down and rip out her genitalia with a razor blade,"
Senator Reid said, adding that he thought of his two young granddaughters at the
time. "I said, 'What am I going to do about this?' All my staff advised me to
stay away from it. You have to be careful on issues like this. Is this something
a man should be involved in?

"The first time I talked about it on the floor, I felt very uncomfortable.
You're talking about a little girl's vagina."

Representative Schroeder, who is to retire from the House of Representatives
after the New Year, has been working on the issue for more than 20 years.

Both said in recent years that they have been unable to get a ban through
Congress. They said some members simply could not believe that the practice
actually goes on. And some were worried that it would lead to proposals to
abolish male circumcision.

This year, they said, their years of pestering their fellow lawmakers, combined
with greater press attention to the issue, including a series of articles in The
New York Times, and the Republican-controlled Congress's desire to counter the
tendency of female voters to support Democrats, led to passage of the law.

A separate measure to pressure African governments to take action in their own
countries had another important ally in the Senate, Patrick Leahy, the ranking
Democrat on the Foreign Operations subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee.

The provision, which takes effect a year from now, made United States support
for loans from international financial institutions dependent on foreign
governments carrying out educational campaigns against genital cutting. It
charges the Secretary of the Treasury with deciding whether United States
representatives to the lending institutions will oppose or support loans and
grants to countries.

"Some in the World Bank bureaucracy have always taken the position that if the
United States suggests another country do something differently, the client
countries will react against it," Senator Leahy said. "In fact, it is through
this kind of pressure that we've had changes necessary in a number of countries,
ranging from privatization in the former Soviet Union to female education in
developing countries. This requires diplomacy on the part of the international
financial institution, but they have a lot of people paid a great deal of money
to practice that diplomacy."

Officials in such financial institutions as the World Bank and the International
Monetary Fund say that the success of the new American strategy will depend on
how diplomatically it is carried out.

"If it highlights the problem, it will be constructive," said Eric Chinje,
external affairs officer for Africa at the World Bank. "If it provides an
instrument for fingerpointing, it will be counterproductive."

World Bank officials say they are paying more attention to the problem, but
human rights advocates for women say the bank has done too little, investing
what they consider a paltry amount to support groups combatting genital cutting,
a practice that affects tens of millions of African women and girls.

This year, World Bank officials said, the bank provided $285,000 in grants to
two groups: the nonprofit Research, Action & Information Network for Bodily
Integrity of Women, based in New York City, and the Inter-African Committee on
Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children, based in Addis
Ababa.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 12, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Benefits Go; Allure to Dominicans Doesn't

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1389 words

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic


The line outside the United States Consulate here begins forming at dawn, and as
the police struggle to keep order and vendors hawk lottery tickets it lengthens
rapidly with Dominicans who hope to join relatives already living in the United
States.

Nearly everyone seems to know that the United States is adopting measures that
sharply cut benefits to legal as well as illegal immigrants. But that has not
dampened their determination to reach what they see as the land of their dreams.

"I've got two good arms and two good legs to work," scoffed Elisa Mojica, a
recently wed 22-year-old beautician who is awaiting a visa to join her
24-year-old husband, Amauris, in New Jersey. "I don't want to go there to live
on welfare; I want to go there to improve my life."

The lure of a better future will continue to draw immigrants to the United
States, Dominicans say, so long as poverty and lack of opportunity here endure.
Although some in Congress maintain that immigrants flock to the United States
for the benefits that the new measures on welfare and immigration would now deny
them, interviews with more than two dozen Dominicans show that most of them
dismiss American efforts to discourage immigration as illogical and likely to
fail.

In the Absent Dominicans barrio, named in honor of those who sent home the money
that built the tidy pastel houses lining the street, Ruben Cueva said he
continued to dream of joining his 2 sisters and 10 nieces and nephews in Queens.

"If you've got money, the Dominican Republic is the best country in the world in
which to live," said Mr. Cueva, who was recently hired as foreman of a garbage
collection team after a long spell without a job. "The rich here, they have no
need to go anywhere. But we who are poor, we are eating stones, so these
measures are not going to stop anybody from going to New York in search of the
green."

Over the last decade, that search has made this Caribbean nation of 7.5 million
people the source of more legal immigrants to New York City than any other
country, according to the New York City Department of Planning. Of the roughly
40,000 Dominicans who have entered the United States legally each year since
1990, more than 22,000 a year have settled in New York City, with many of the
rest establishing themselves elsewhere in the metropolitan area.

But there is also a substantial flow of illegal immigration to the United
States, both the Dominican and the United States Governments acknowledge.
Statistics compiled here indicate that more than 700,000 people have left the
country in the last decade, the bulk of whom are assumed to have settled in
cities in the Eastern United States.

In the United States 28 percent of Dominican households classified as post-1980
"new arrivals" have received public assistance at one time or another, ranking
them third among immigrant groups. By comparison, 38 percent of new Vietnamese
arrivals and 33 percent of immigrants from the former Soviet Union received such
assistance. For all households in the United States, the figure is 7.5 percent;
in New York City, 13.3 percent of the households are on public assistance.

Many Dominican immigrants, however, gravitate toward factory jobs or end up
opening small businesses. The money sent home by Dominicans living abroad is now
the largest single source of foreign exchange for this country, amounting to
more than $1 billion a year and making the recent American debate about
immigration and welfare resonate deeply here.

"My relatives were just down here visiting, and that's all we talked about,"
said Tomas Vasquez, a 50-year-old cement salesman. "I don't think there is a
single family in this country that doesn't have somebody in the United States,
so naturally there has been a lot of attention paid to the coverage in the
newspapers and on radio and television."

The new welfare law, which was signed into law on Aug. 22, will deny many
current legal immigrants food stamps and supplemental Social Security income and
denies future immigrants the right to food stamps, public housing, Medicaid and
other social services during their first five years of residence. Congress has
also approved a restrictive immigration bill that includes provisions requiring
minimum income levels for sponsors of immigrants, and President Clinton is
expected to sign the measure soon.

Here, few questioned the right of the United States to try to diminish the flow
of immigration from poor, developing countries like this one. "Personally, I
think these new laws are anti-Latino," said Narciso Frias, a 31-year-old
mechanic. "But it's their country, and they should be able to take whatever
measures they think are necessary to guarantee their national security."

Yet most of those interviewed here said economic pressures would continue to
encourage Dominicans to try to reach the United States, whether legally, through
family reunification programs, or illegally, in the flimsy boats called yolas
that regularly make the dangerous sea crossing to the west coast of Puerto Rico.
From there entry to the American mainland is relatively easy.

"What else would make people risk their lives to board yolas and go to a place
where they are not wanted?" asked Juan Pablo Diaz Gonzalez, a 59-year-old store
owner from the northern town of Moca who often visits relatives in the United
States. "This country has been in a state of economic stagnation for years, so
people are desperate and have no other choice."

Billilo Vidal, an unemployed painter and carpenter, counts himself among that
group. Last year, he said, he stowed away on a ship carrying a consignment of
machinery back to the United States after an industrial fair here, but was
discovered and briefly jailed. Nevertheless, he said, he plans to try again as
soon as he can afford to do so.

"If I had the money, I'd be out of here in a flash, regardless of whatever
measures might be taken in the United States," said Mr. Vidal, 41. "It's not
that I want to go, but that I have to go. I've got five kids, and I'm not even
able to give them what they need for breakfast. I want to have a house that I
own, instead of having to pay rent, and I can only achieve that in the United
States, not here."

The concern that Dominican immigrants might be adversely affected by the new
welfare and immigration laws extends to the highest levels of Government here.
President Leonel Fernandez Reyna, who took office in mid-August, grew up in New
York City, where his mother worked as a seamstress, and he attended elementary
and high school on the Upper West Side.

In a speech last month, which was later televised in New York on Channel 41, Mr.
Fernandez, a 42-year-old lawyer, said he recognized that "many Dominican
families residing in the United States that have benefited from welfare and food
stamps will begin to experience difficulties once this law is promulgated." But
he urged Dominicans living in the United States to feel free to pursue dual
citizenship, which was made legal here in 1994, in order to retain whatever
benefits they could.

"If you, young mother, or you, elderly gentleman, or you, young student, feel
the need to adopt the nationality of the United States in order to confront the
vicissitudes of that society stemming from the end of the welfare era, do not
feel tormented by this," he said. "Do it with a peaceful conscience, for you
will continue being Dominicans, and we will welcome you as such when you set
foot on the soil of our republic."

But long before Mr. Fernandez spoke, Fernando Mateo, the 38-year-old owner of a
document courier and money transfer company, Mateo Express, had already taken
that step. Many other Dominicans are sure to follow suit as a result of the
pressure they are feeling, he said, with easily predictable political
consequences.

"Indirectly, the Republicans are doing us a favor by encouraging us to empower
ourselves by becoming American citizens," Mr. Mateo, who divides his time
between New York and Santo Domingo, said at his office here. "If we do that, we
will be heard, the way the Cubans are in Miami. Any time they holler, the
President goes running to Florida. Then we'll be able to negotiate, and anyone
who wants our vote will have to help develop this country, so that less of us
take off for the United States."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dominicans say the lure of a better future will continue to draw
them to the United States, so long as poverty and lack of opportunity endure in
the island nation. Dominicans stood in line at the United States Consulte in
Santo Domingo this week waiting for a chance for a visa. (Alan S. Weiner for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 27, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Nation;
How Congress Curtailed the Courts' Jurisdiction

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section 4;    Page 5;    Column 1;    Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1343 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


WILLIAM E. MORRIS was preparing to argue his first Supreme Court case a few
months ago when the winds of change blowing from Washington reached his office
at Southern Arizona Legal Aid in Tucson.

He had won an important case against the state of Arizona, establishing the
right of a group of single mothers to sue the state for failing to meet Federal
standards in tracking down and collecting child support from absent fathers. The
Supreme Court accepted the state's appeal, with an argument due in early
January.

But instead of writing his brief, Mr. Morris wrote to the Court to say that he
had to withdraw from the case. A new law that took effect Aug. 1 bars lawyers in
Federally financed legal services offices from handling class-action lawsuits
such as his case, Blessing v. Freestone. In one of the most closely watched
cases of the Supreme Court term, one with significant implications for the
doctrine of federalism, a private lawyer will present the arguments, and Mr.
Morris will be a bystander.

The legal system is just now beginning to absorb the impact of a range of
actions Congress took this year, in bills signed into law by President Clinton,
to limit access to the courts by poor people, by death-row inmates and other
prisoners, and by illegal aliens and some lawful immigrants. Many issues remain
to be resolved, and with many lawsuits already filed, the Supreme Court is
likely to have the final word on whether Congress went too far in limiting or
removing Federal court jurisdiction over whole categories of cases.




End of the Line

Morris's experience offers a window on what happened in this election year,
almost below the surface of public attention, when borrowed time and political
protection finally ran out for some of the nation's least popular institutions
and litigants.

These were, after all, not new battles so much as old battles with new endings,
the product of a Republican Congress and of a Democratic President who offered
occasional expressions of dismay but chose a passive role.

To take the legal services example: the curb on the lawyers was the culmination
of years of Congressional hostility toward the Legal Services Corporation,
fueled by the view that it had become, through creative litigation, an
illegitimate agent of social change instead of a dispenser of retail advice to
poor people with legal problems, as Congress intended when it created the
corporation 21 years ago.




A Surgical Strike

But there was more to the onslaught than old bills coming due. Congress acted
against its targets with surgical precision. By cutting off class-action
lawsuits, the law eliminated the most effective tool at the disposal of legal
services lawyers for attacking systemic problems in government institutions and
benefit programs. Many of the most far-reaching lawsuits had involved welfare
cases, so for good measure Congress also prohibited the lawyers from taking part
in any cases challenging the administration of welfare laws.

In similar fashion, the Prison Litigation Reform Act, which Congress enacted as
a provision of something called the Balanced Budget Down Payment Act, took aim
at the single aspect of prison litigation that has most infuriated state
officials over the years, the consent decree under which a judge can place a
prison system in the hands of a court-appointed special master to insure that
conditions improve on schedule.

Under the new law, consent decrees will expire in two years unless the judge
holds a new trial and makes findings of ongoing constitutional violations. There
are limits on pay for the special masters. Preliminary injunctions, often
granted at the start of a case to permit time for pre-trial discovery, will
expire after 90 days unless a judge makes the injunction final.

In their precision and indirection, these legislative efforts differed from the
titanic constitutional battles of the early 1980's, when the Republicans newly
in control of the Senate pushed a series of bills to strip the Supreme Court and
the lower Federal courts of jurisdiction to decide cases involving school
prayer, busing and abortion. Twenty-two bills were pending at one point in 1981,
and it appeared likely that some version of some court-stripping bill would
manage to pass.

But the effort foundered under the withering spotlight of intense public
opposition, not only from the usual liberal suspects, but from Republican
senators including Lowell P. Weicker Jr. of Connecticut and Barry Goldwater of
Arizona. The "frontal assault on the independence of the Federal courts is a
dangerous blow to the foundations of a free society," Senator Goldwater declared
on the Senate floor.

The efforts this year, by contrast, were anything but frontal. Some of the
restrictions on prisoners' access to Federal court through petitions for writs
of habeas corpus were adopted by a House-Senate conference committee without
public debate.

Under another law, named the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant
Responsibility Act, Congress eliminated the kind of class-action suit that has
been used to challenge practices of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The statute also eliminates judicial review of discretionary decisions by the
Attorney General, who has the authority to waive deportation for aliens who are
technically subject to deportation but who can demonstrate that, for reasons of
fairness or family ties, they should be permitted to stay.

Congress also tucked into the anti-terrorism law a separate provision that
eliminated the Attorney General's authority to grant relief from deportation for
any alien who had committed a drug offense. The Court had been scheduled this
month to hear an appeal involving an Egyptian-born engineer, Mohammed Elramly, a
legal resident since 1981 who faced deportation for selling $100 worth of
hashish to an undercover police officer. Mr. Elramly had won a lower court
ruling that gave him a chance at a waiver of deportation. On Sept. 16 the
Supreme Court, citing the new law, vacated that decision and dismissed the case.

The breadth of the attack on access to courts has left liberals searching for a
theory to explain how it could have happened. David Cole, a law professor at
Georgetown University whose 10-year effort to prevent the deportation of a group
of Palestinians may have finally run out of time under the new law, offered one
explanation. "In the 1980's, the targets were controversial court decisions in
areas where a lot of powerful people were arrayed on both sides," he said. "This
time the targets were immigrants, prisoners and the poor -- people who don't
vote or can't vote."

The ultimate targets, then and now, are the Federal courts themselves. It is an
old story: the courts get in the way and make politicians angry. A conservative
Supreme Court stood in Franklin D. Roosevelt's way, leading him into his failed
Court-packing plan. Federal court control of school and prison systems has
angered state and local officials for decades. Courts have persisted in
according aliens and prisoners a level of due process that today's political
consensus rejects. The response takes forms tailored to the political needs of
each age, but the anger is always there, a river flowing under the political
landscape.




'A Despotic Judiciary'

Anyone who doubts the force and depth of that anger should pick up a new book by
the one-time Supreme Court nominee Robert H. Bork. In "Slouching Toward
Gomorrah" (HarperCollins, 1996), Mr. Bork, who once looked forward to lifetime
service on the Court as an "intellectual feast," holds the Court "responsible in
no small measure" for such societal ills as "anarchy and license in the moral
order." "The upshot is that the democratic nation is helpless before an
antidemocratic, indeed a despotic, judiciary," he writes.

It is a rage not likely to be assuaged by the knowledge that the judgment on
whether Congress went too far this year in shutting off access to the courts is
now up to the Supreme Court.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 30, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE VOTERS;
Influx of Immigrants Is Changing Electorate

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1144 words

DATELINE: DEARBORN, Mich., Oct. 29


When the Michigan Democratic Party held its convention in September, Marianne
Yared McGuire, an Arab-American, was not shy about using her ethnicity to
persuade some party leaders to back her bid for a nomination to the State Board
of Education. "I told them they needed an Arab-American on the ticket to get
Arab-Americans to go out and vote Democratic," she said.

Hers was a classic argument in American ethnic politics, but it reflected a new
reality: the increasing diversity of the electorate created by rising
immigration rates and relatively high birth rates for immigrants.

Since the 1992 election, the Immigration and Naturalization Service says, more
than 2.3 million immigrants have been naturalized, the largest number of new
citizens over a four-year Presidential election cycle since 1924. With
naturalization comes the right to vote, and many new citizens are old enough to
vote.

These demographic changes are forcing politicians on all levels to adjust their
calculations. Now they must court both votes and contributions from emerging
blocs of ethnic citizens, many of them swing voters in crucial states:
Asian-Americans in California, Mexican-Americans in the Southwest, Russian and
Caribbean immigrants in New York and Arab-Americans here in Michigan.

Gone are the days when Walter F. Mondale returned donations made by
Arab-Americans to his 1984 Presidential campaign or when Michael S. Dukakis told
a group of Arab-Americans in 1988 that he did not want their Presidential
endorsement.

"I wouldn't say we are considered a critical group yet," said James Zogby,
president of the Arab American Institute. "But they're starting to view us as a
legitimate vote group to pay attention to."

So far, according to strategists for both parties, the Clinton campaign has made
an all-out effort to woo new ethnic voters, establishing and financing ethnic
outreach programs by the Democratic National Committee and at the White House.
In contrast, the Dole campaign has been less enthusiastic in courting
Arab-Americans and other ethnic groups.

"Arab-Americans are getting as much attention as any other ethnic group," said
George R. Salim, a Palestinian-American lawyer in Washington who works with the
Dole campaign. "But from the point of view of those of us who have been involved
in Republican politics for a long time, no ethnic group is getting enough
attention."

While they fret that the Dole campaign has not made any serious overtures to
Arab-Americans, some Republican strategists note that Arab-Americans, like Asian
and Hispanic Americans, are a diverse group, divided by nationality, religion
and class. Keeping them unified behind any one party will be difficult.

But the Republican Party may end up attracting the large numbers of
Arab-Americans who are socially conservative and ripe for a so-called family
values message. Large numbers of Arab-Americans are also business executives who
could easily be tempted by the Republicans position of less taxes and less
regulation.

While their numbers remain small -- only about 200,000 to 250,000 in total
population in Michigan -- their tradition as swing voters makes Arab-Americans a
prototype that explains why many politicians are paying so much attention to
ethnic voters. In a nationwide survey conducted this month by the Arab American
Institute, of 400 Arab-American registered voters, 42 percent identified
themselves as Republicans; 36.5 percent as Democrats, and 21.4 percent as either
independents or as registered with a third party.

But party affiliation seems to mean very little. In 1988, Arab-Americans in
Michigan strongly supported the Rev. Jesse Jackson, a liberal Democrat, in the
state caucuses. Two years later, they strongly backed John Engler, a
conservative Republican, in the Governor's race.

In her race for the school board, Ms. McGuire, a liberal union advocate who was
once married to a non-Arab American, is hoping to draw heavily from
Arab-Americans. But Arab-Americans here have also supported conservative
Republican candidates: Spencer Abraham, the first Arab-American Senator from
Michigan, and Suzanne Sareini, the only Arab-American member of the Dearborn
City Council.

"There is no party loyalty," said Abdul Mackie, president of Arab American
Republicans of Michigan.

Perhaps because American politicians have historically treated them as pariahs,
many Arab-Americans respond as much to candidates who offer the trappings of
inclusion -- making appearances at Arab-American functions, placing campaign
advertisements in Arab-language newspapers, seeking advice of Arab-Americans --
as to those who are sympathetic to their views on issues like education, crime,
and, of course, the Middle East.

"Governor Engler was down in the community all the time," said Mohammed Okdie,
an organizer with the American Federation of Teachers. "It was a big deal."

The Clinton campaign and the White House have been following that model.

On Monday, a group of Palestinian-Americans was briefed on a conference call by
Richard LeBaron, a National Security Council staff member, on the breakdown in
talks in the Middle East. Last month, after contentious talks in Washington
between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian
leader, and King Hussein of Jordan, another group of Arab-Americans were briefed
by the National Security Adviser, Anthony Lake.

Tipper Gore, the Vice President's wife, appeared at the Arab American Chamber of
Commerce dinner in Detroit. And Arab-American leaders have been invited to the
White House to meet with the President three times. "There have been more
meetings with the President of the United States in the last two years than
there were with Jim Blanchard, the Governor of this state in eight years," Mr.
Okdie said. "To me, that's serious wooing."

It has apparently paid off. In the Arab American Institute survey, 43.4 percent
backed Mr. Clinton, while 29.6 percent favored Mr. Dole. The poll had a margin
of error of plus or minus five percentage points.

In addition, a group of Arab-American business executives raised about $750,000
at a Cleveland fund-raising event last spring attended by the President.
Organizers of another event scheduled for last month in Dearborn say they were
confident of raising a similar amount, but the event was canceled when the
featured guest, Vice President Al Gore, stayed in Washington to attend the
Middle East summit talks.

The courting has caused heady feelings among some Arab-American Democrats who,
in their most fanciful moments, envision their people becoming a force within
the Party akin to blacks and labor. "We've become recognized, but we're not key
stakeholders in the Party at this point," said Samir W. Mashni, a
Palestinian-American lawyer in Dearborn active in the Democratic Party. "But
that's the goal."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Marianne Yared McGuire, an Arab-American running for the
Michigan Board of Education. (Peter Yates for The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Welfare Proposals Hurt Elderly Immigrants

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 12;   Column 4;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 182 words


To the Editor:

"Wrong Way on Welfare" (editorial, Nov. 13) and "The President's Next Welfare
Test" (editorial, Nov. 11) both speak accurately about the potential harm that
proposed welfare reforms will have on children.

However, the reforms will be equally cruel for large numbers of legal, elderly
immigrants who came to this country with the understanding that their status
insured certain benefits.

Thousands of such immigrants face a future portending no Supplemental Security
Income benefits and questionable Medicaid benefits.

It is unlikely that they will have worked the required 40 quarters that would
insure continuation of benefits.

These reforms will also result in massive burdens on the families who provide
the major sources of support for these people. It is imperative that the
President focus on how to protect these elderly people and their families from
the potential harm confronting them.

SUE LEVKOFF
Cambridge, Mass., Nov. 13, 1996

The writer is director of the Harvard Upper New England Geriatric Education
Center, Harvard Medical School.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Business Travel;
The Inspass system for hassle-free entry into the United States is being
expanded.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 635 words


AFTER three years of apparent fraud-free use at Kennedy International Airport in
New York, Newark International Airport and Lester B. Pearson International
Airport in Toronto, the Inspass system will soon be in place at eight more
airports. Its purpose is to provide frequent travelers hassle-free entry into
the United States.

Those eligible for the program are citizens of the United States, Canada,
Bermuda and the 25 other nations that participate in the visa-waiver pilot
program, provided they travel to the United States on business at least three
times a year. Also eligible are "low risk" visitors like diplomats, airline
crews and representatives of international organizations.

To enroll in Inspass, which is run by the the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, travelers must visit an I.N.S. office and be approved by
an agency inspector. After receiving an Inspass card, the traveler arriving at a
participating airport can bypass immigration lines by inserting the card into
what resembles an automated bank teller machine. But unlike users of the bank
machine, Inspass card holders must also insert their hand in a "reader" that
compares it with the image captured at the time of their enrollment.

The airports scheduled to have Inspass in place by mid-1997 are Miami, Los
Angeles, Vancouver, Honolulu, Houston, San Francisco, Chicago and Montreal. The
system at the Canadian airports is to provide pre-clearance for entry into the
United States.

Guarding Your Laptop

With laptop computers a prime target of thieves at airports and hotels, Port
Inc., a Norwalk, Conn., company that manufactures accessories for portable
computers, has come up with a motion sensor alarm system. The 6.2-ounce system,
Defcon 1, employs a cut-resistant steel cable that passes through the handle of
the carrying case or into a laptop's security lock slot. Because the motion
sensor operates on time-delay, the alarm gives three warning chirps if the
computer is moved, shaken or tilted. If not disarmed, an ear-spliting alarm will
alert the owner -- and presumably everyone else within earshot. The price of the
alarm is $49.95.

Call for Help

Mastercard International is offering card holders who travel abroad an easy way
to report lost or stolen cards, find the nearest A.T.M. machines or get
emergency card replacement or cash advances: a toll-free telephone call in any
language from anywhere in the world (or through a collect call where toll-free
service is not available). The numbers can be obtained by asking local directory
assistance in each country for the toll-free Mastercard Global Service number,
or through hotel concierges and Thomas Cook travel and currency-exchange
locations in major cities.

Route Planning

Three weeks ago the Promus Hotel Corporation began offering travelers free
customized auto route planning via three World Wide Web sites on the Internet.
By Monday those Web sites had mapped out about 100,000 trips for browsers.

The Web sites, available to anyone with access to the Internet, are for each of
three Promus brands -- Hampton Inn and Hampton Inn and Suites, whose site is
www.hampton-inn.com (Hampton Inn and Hampton Inn & Suites); Embassy Suites,
whose Web site is www.embassy-suites.com, and Homewood Suites, at
www.homewood-suites.com.

Promoting the Slopes

The ski industry contributes $3.2 billion a year to Colorado's economy, but
skiing has been pretty much a no-growth industry nationwide for about a decade.

To "fill the pipeline," as one concerned ski executive put it, the Colorado
state government and Colorado Ski Country USA, a marketing organization, have
teamed up to give every fifth grader in the state a season pass entitling them
to ski and snowboard for free at 23 resorts statewide.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 23, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Who Needs This Committee on Religious Freedom Abroad?;
Worldwide Persecution

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 304 words


To the Editor:

I commend Peter Steinfels for bringing to our attention the plight of persecuted
Christians worldwide (Beliefs column, Nov. 16).

The oppression and persecution of Christians is widespread. In the Middle East,
the growth of Islamic fundamentalism has led to the revival of apostasy
doctrines, which mandate death sentences for Muslim converts to Christianity.
Christians in Pakistan struggle under a blasphemy law making it a crime to speak
or act against the prophet Mohammed. In Algeria, the Armed Islamic Group has
called for "the annihilation and physical liquidation of Christian crusaders."

The White House and the State Department have done little to relieve the plight
of these Christians. In January, the National Association of Evangelicals held a
conference on "The Global Persecution of Christians" and called attention to the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service for its "hostile" treatment
of religious refugees.

The I.N.S. makes it difficult for Christian converts to flee religious
persecution in radical Islamic and Communist lands. I.N.S. officials, who report
to Attorney General Janet Reno, have turned the vast majority of these refugees
away.

Steps should be taken to insure the safety of these Christians. The I.N.S.
should provide Ms. Reno with updated reports on religious persecution around the
globe. Ms. Reno should request that the I.N.S. set up refugee processing centers
in the countries bordering the worst offenders.

We must work to keep these Christians before the public eye, and to pressure our
Government to aid them -- before, God forbid, the list of these victims of faith
grows even longer.

(Rabbi) YECHIEL ECKSTEIN
Chicago, Nov. 21, 1996

The writer is president of the International Fellowship of Christians and Jews.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing: (Igor Kopelnitsky)

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 24, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
Rwanda's Past Again Vies to Be Prologue

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 799 words

DATELINE: KABAYA, Rwanda


JEAN VATILI has never felt so powerless. He returned to Rwanda last week along
with hundreds of thousands of other Hutu refugees and, like many others, found
that his property had been confiscated by Tutsi immigrants.

That first day, Mr. Vatili, a former central bank official, confronted one of
the Tutsi squatters in his village of Kabaya. The man immediately pointed a
finger and accused Mr. Vatili of taking part in the 1994 genocide against Tutsi.
Fear crossed Mr. Vatili's face, and he slunk away.

When hundreds of thousands of Hutu refugees returned home last week to Rwanda,
many aid workers and diplomats here hailed the end of the refugee crisis that
began when Hutus flooded into Zaire two years ago, fleeing a civil war.

But in a sense the struggle between the two ethnic groups in this lush Central
African nation is only beginning a new chapter.

"I will tell you the truth," Mr. Vatili said.  "The wish for the returnees is
that power has to be shared, because the Government is dominated by Tutsi and we
need some Hutus on our side to be in power, too."



Minority Rule

For the last two years, the Tutsi-controlled Government in Kigali has held the
moral high ground. After all, it was the Tutsi rebel army that ended the Hutu
massacres of 1994, putting Hutu militias and civilians to flight. Moreover, Hutu
militia members became guerrillas operating out of United Nations refugee camps.
They had continued sowing terror and insecurity in western Rwanda with
cross-border raids.

In contrast, the Tutsi-led army promised stability and peace. It did not take
long for the United States and other Western democracies to throw their support
behind the new minority government it formed.

But now that the refugees have been driven home by strife in Zaire, the Tutsi
elite in Kigali no longer have an outside threat to justify their hold on power.
This presents Rwanda's leaders with a long-term problem. Since the Tutsi are
only about 15 percent of the population, moving toward democracy would
ultimately mean sharing power with the Hutus.

Returning Hutus now find themselves living in something not unlike a police
state. Ultimate authority still lies with the Tutsi-dominated army. Power flows
from the Defense Minister, Paul Kagame, not from the Hutu President, Pasteur
Bizimungu, widely seen as a figurehead. There are still military checkpoints on
all major roads, and in the last two years the authorities have arrested 85,000
Hutu men on genocide charges. None has yet had a trial.

None of this bodes well for reconciliation. The first major hurdle the
Government faces is to solve the myriad property disputes between Hutu returnees
and Tutsi, a potential flashpoint for violence. After the Tutsi rebel victory in
1994, about 800,000 Tutsi who had left Rwanda in 1959 after the first wave of
anti-Tutsi violence returned to the country. The military has steered many of
these refugees to empty houses left by the fleeing Hutu. Now the Tutsi are being
asked to leave those confiscated homes to make room for returnees, and this is
hard for many of them to bear.

A second challenge for the Government is to identify and arrest the thousands of
former fighters still believed to be at large in the population, without
sparking a Hutu revolt. That will not be easy. The ground at the border where
the refugees crossed is littered with identity cards that young men tore up as
they entered Rwanda.

Rwandan officials say they would like to erase the ethnic distinctions that have
riven the country again and again in the past. The Hutu and Tutsi are not tribes
as such -- they share the same language and customs -- but rather are more like
distinct classes. The Tutsi, a tall, generally thinner people from the Nile
River valley, have historically made up the ruling elite, while the Hutu, a
stockier, Bantu people, have made up the working class.

Patrick Mazimhaka, the minister for rehabilitation and social integration, says
that because the nation's party politics have split along those Hutu-Tutsi
lines, Rwandans aren't ready for democratic elections. "We will continue to
share power based on ideology, not based on ethnicity," he said. Of course,
elections would probably lead to a Hutu victory if they were held now.

The Government says the priority instead is reconstruction. A crucial mission is
to attract aid to build new housing, schools, roads and clinics. To that end,
Rwanda is asking Western nations for $600 million at a conference in Geneva this
weekend.

The money could not come too soon for people like Mr. Vatili, who is sleeping on
a neighbor's floor. New housing would mean the squatters would have someplace to
go.

"We will just wait and see," he said. "If there is justice, maybe we will get
back our houses."

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many Hutu returned to Rwanda to find their homes occupied by
Tutsi. These returnees had to stay at the home of a neighbor. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 1, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Again Renew Sunset Park

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER

SECTION: Section 9;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 2325 words


THE history of the Sunset Park community of Brooklyn is a tale of the effect of
waves of immigration on community life. In the 1990's, the tale is being retold
with new twists.

One has been brought about by the arrival of Chinese immigrants from Hong Kong
and the mainland in what has come to be known as the Brooklyn Chinatown, which
also embraces parts of Borough Park and Bay Ridge but is now expanding mainly in
Sunset Park. Their interest in home buying is the major force driving the
housing market. Their presence has affected commercial real estate as well,
lifting values and transforming parts of Eighth Avenue, a major retail street,
northward from the N line subway station at 60th Street.

The other is a tale of another commercial thoroughfare, Fifth Avenue, three long
blocks and a different ethnic world away from Eighth Avenue. There the
ethnically mixed customer base includes many Latinos, and as the economy has
improved more small-chain retailers are arriving to replace Mom-and-Pop
operations.

The big current question is how these operations will be affected by the opening
Nov. 21 of a new Costco superstore near the waterfront.

With the store near the 39th Street exit of the Gowanus Expressway, which runs
above Third Avenue, the target market is regional not local. But will it
undercut neighborhood shopping on Fifth Avenue?

Officials of the Giuliani administration are eager to move through the City
Council zoning legislation that would make it easier to develop such superstores
citywide, and opponents of the initiative will no doubt monitor closely the
impact of Costco on Fifth Avenue.

But so far, it is the home-buying propensities of Chinese immigrants, and their
ability to live frugally and save in a mutually supportive extended family, that
has already had the most noticeable real-estate impact.

"In China we were very poor, so we came here," said Rong Ling Xie, who came to
the United States from the mainland in 1985 and now works in a plumbing supply
store. Sam Lo, the salesman for N.Y. NG Real Estate through whom Mr. Xie bought
a two-family house near Eighth Avenue last August, acted as his translator
during an interview a few days ago.

"My wife works, I work," said Mr. Xie, who is 52. "The kids help on holidays. My
daughter took part-time jobs after school." Mr. Xie and his wife have three
children, daughters 27 and 18 and a son 24. Saving assiduously, the family was
able to put $100,000 into the purchase a house that sold for $209,000.

Sunset Park is usually defined as the area from 65th Street on the south to the
Prospect Expressway on the north, from the industrialized waterfront on the west
to Eighth Avenue on the east. In that area the national census in 1990 found the
population to be 90,000. On the basis of data from the Department of City
Planning it appears that the population has grown to about 100,000 this year,
mainly because of new births. Much of the new immigration has been offset by
deaths and the departure of older residents.

The area has been a port of entry for immigrants for over a century. First came
Scandinavians, then Irish, and then Italians, Poles and Greeks. With the loss of
industrial jobs on the waterfront in the 50's, a long decline began.

But in the 80's, resurgence began, partly as a result of young American
households seeking starter urban housing, but also because of a new wave
bringing in Hispanic, Chinese, Korean and Middle Eastern immigrants, among
others. Many other "immigrants" were young white families from Manhattan and
other areas in Brooklyn. In 1990, a third of the population was found to have
come originally from Puerto Rico. There are 127 distinct nationality groups,
local representatives say.

Its historic hospitality to immigrants has made Sunset Park the subject of
scholarly study of the impact of immigration on city life. In the 1990 book "New
People in Old Neighborhoods," the urban economist Louis Winnick says that the
decline of Sunset Park after World War II was reversed not so much by housing
subsidies and community action as by the reopening of the gates of immigration
by Congress in 1965.

"In their number are the toiling families who own the small bodegas, and the
Chinese second chef whose wife stitches garments," Mr. Winnick wrote. "They eke
out the monthly rent (sometimes with the help of a boarder or two) in a house
that the frugal among them yearn one day to buy."

QUITE possibly Liang Pei Lin, 34, and his sister, Ying Hing Lin, 30, would
recognize their family in that description. Ms. Lin arrived in the United States
in 1986 with her parents from Guangzhou in China. Her brother came two years
later. Her father worked in a garment factory in Chinatown while Ms. Lin
finished high school and started college, meanwhile learning English.

The family first rented in Chinatown and in 1988 moved to Sunset Park as
renters. Ms. Lin, now married, works in a bank at the World Trade Center and
hopes to finish her college work at Brooklyn College. Her brother, still
learning English, drives a delivery van in Chinatown for a noodle company.

In May of last year the entire family bought a two-family house in Sunset Park
for $218,000. "Everybody works, and we all contributed," Ms. Lin said. She was
able to contribute $10,000, saved over eight years.

"Every time we pay the rent, the rent is gone," she said. "We felt that if we
buy a house, after 10 years, even if the value doesn't go up, we still have our
own house."

The pace of home sales to Chinese buyers -- or for that matter the pace of new
arrivals -- has not been formally tracked. The total Asian population in Sunset
Park, Bay Ridge and Borough Park is estimated at 65,000 by the Brooklyn
Chinese-American Association. All but about 8 percent of the Asian population is
Chinese, said Paul P. Mak, president of the association.

"Over the last four or five years many houses have been bought by Asians within
the community as investments," said Mr. Mak. But there are no figures on total
sales, or on whether houses have been bought for occupancy or as rentals.

Chang Xie, director of the Brooklyn branch of the Chinese-American Planning
Council, which provides services from offices at 6022 Seventh Avenue in Sunset
Park, estimated that there have been about 250 new Chinese-American homeowners
in the last six years in his service area. The area embraces not only Sunset
Park, but also the close-by section of Borough Park between Eighth and Ninth
Avenues.

Mr. Xie said the increase has taken place from 65th Street as far north as 39th
Street on both sides of Eighth Avenue. Most of the new arrivals -- perhaps 80
percent -- are not home buyers but renters. Many work in the garment factories
that have sprung up near 60th Street or in restaurants on Eighth Avenue. There
are about 200 garment factories in the district, employing an estimated 4,000
people. But another attraction of the Brooklyn Chinatown to the Chinese is the
subway station at Eighth Avenue and 60th Street, where the N train takes a
passenger to Chinatown in 30 minutes.

"Home prices are fairly stable right now, but it's already pretty expensive for
working-class people," Mr. Xie said. Most families earn between $30,000 and
$40,000 a year, he said, with usually both a husband and wife working. If there
are grown children in the family -- and there often are -- that figure will be
higher, he said.

In home buying, many of the newcomers have turned to local Chinese-run
brokerages. On Eighth Avenue at 56th Street, the large storefront office of LCCW
Realty stays open at night and salespeople sit at a half-dozen desks awaiting
after-work customers. "Whatever we have, we sell," said Hon Leung, the broker,
who opened the office eight years ago after 12 years in Park Slope. "It's a
seller's market."

In another real estate office, N.Y. NG Real Estate at Seventh Avenue and 60th
Street, Grace Ng, the broker, said that two-family houses she was selling for
$60,000 to $75,000 12 years ago are now selling for $200,000 to $250,000. But at
the height of the market, from 1989 to 1991, prices got as high as $320,000. The
most favored location is from Seventh to Ninth Avenues between 55th and 60th
Streets.

ON Eighth Avenue itself, commercial development has taken the form of store
renovation, often for new restaurants. The largest is the 400-seat Jade Plaza,
with a flashy gray and purple facade, completed a year ago at 61st Street as a
total renovation of an 8,500-square-foot supermarket. The contractor who did the
work, M. Kee Construction of Manhattan, also renovated a former refrigerator
repair shop as the Ocean Palace restaurant on 55th Street earlier.

Notable by their absence are the clothing and other household-goods stores that
cater to a different ethnic group on Fifth Avenue. There, according to brokers,
Latino families are freer spenders than the Chinese arrivals, who have no great
reputation as buyers of stylish clothing or personal adornments. On Fifth
Avenue, a proliferation of newer chain stores cater to people with those tastes.
"In the last two years the neighborhood has changed," said Don Stavropoulos, who
has run the 90-seat Seebodes restaurant on Fifth Avenue near 49th Street for 26
years and remembers a time when there were seven Irish bars on a two-block
stretch of the avenue. The Hispanic population is predominantly Puerto Rican but
also Dominican and Mexican, with a mixture of Koreans, Chinese and Arabs, Mr.
Stavropoulos said. But most of the newest arrivals are Mexicans, and the menu
has been updated to cater to Hispanic tastes.

"The problem for property owners is to find a way to gather enough adjacent
property to attract the big boys," said Steve Petros, who operates Petbro Realty
on Fifth Avenue near 54th Street. Four 20-foot-wide buildings on the avenue
brought under a single owner can create the 80-foot front that will attract the
larger chain.

The highest rents for ground floor space -- in the range of $35 to $40 a square
foot per year on a net lease, in which the store owner pays the taxes,
insurance, water and sewer charges and repairs -- are obtained between 49th
Street and 56th, mostly for 2,000-square-foot stores with a 20-foot frontage.

Competition from the Costco store may affect these rent levels. On the other
hand, it is not easy to forecast the effect on business with certainty.
Eventually Fifth Avenue may provide a good test of the effect of one type of
big-box store -- the general merchandise outlet where people pay an annual fee
to shop for large quantities of goods at steep discounts -- on a thriving
neighborhood shopping street.

"It's going to be harmful," said Robert Bernard, executive director of the Fifth
Avenue Business Improvement District. "We don't mind competition, but this is a
competitor with the unfair advantage of tax breaks." The store is receiving city
tax abatements for 12 years, and because the land is in a state economic
development zone the company is eligible for a "wage tax credit" worth $1,500 a
year for five years for each new low-income employee.

One merchant, Marc Sutton, said he thought that certain retailers would be hurt
-- sellers of juvenile furniture, as an example -- but that his own children's
clothing business would not be. Mr. Sutton runs the Kidstown chain, with five
stores citywide. "Costco's not big on the clothing line," he said.

The arrival of some types of new stores will continue, said Ross M. Branca, a
lawyer on 54th Street who is president of the improvement district, but he
believes that prospects have dimmed for other types, such as supermarkets, auto
supply stores and pharmacies. He also expects a greater Chinese influence on
Fifth Avenue. "We're seeing it already," he said.

The Costco store has 150,000 square feet of selling space for food and a wide
variety of merchandise on two levels. There is parking for more than 500 cars on
a 6 1/2-acre site. The Planning Commission gave its approval for a store that
the developer -- Peter Davidson, who owned the pipe supply business that had
operated on the property for many years -- thought would be built for Caldor's.
But when Caldor's ran into financial difficulties Price Costco bought the
property. It also decided to go forward with the plans that had been approved
for Caldor's, thus giving the company a two-level rather than a one-level store,
a departure from its usual approach.

Not all small-store operators on Fifth Avenue are intimidated by the new
big-store arrival. American Jeans, a nine-year-old chain with five stores in
moderate-income neighborhoods of Brooklyn, opened a second store on Fifth Avenue
in Sunset Park on 50th Street four years ago because "we recognized it was an
excellent shopping center," said Robert Brand, the general manager. American
Jeans now is concentrating its expansion moves in Manhattan. It has a
one-year-old store on 57th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, and another
store is planned at the South Street Seaport.

UNPERTURBED by Costco, Mr. Brand said, "We have our own niche in the name-brand
look, and it's a long way from Fifth Avenue to Third Avenue."

Another small chain on the avenue is Vim, which has eight men's and women's
sportswear stores in moderate-income neighborhoods of Brooklyn. One of the
stores opened three years ago at Fifth Avenue and 48th Street in Sunset Park.
Elazar Joseph, a partner in the family-owned business, said that merchants have
good reason to worry because the new Costco will weaken Fifth Avenue as a place
for holiday shopping. People who carry furniture, housewares and food will
suffer, he said.

"But when you're in business, you have to live with the big box," Mr. Joseph
said. "If you are a small box, you have to give better service and appeal to the
local people. We have the advantage of being local people, rather than people in
Connecticut deciding what to buy for the people in Sunset Park."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: New Costco store in Sunset Park. (Rebecca Cooney for The New
York Times); Stores along Fifth Avenue. 55th Street near Sixth Avenue. Eighth
Avenue at 58th Street in Sunset Park is part of a Brooklyn Chinatown created by
immigration from Hong Kong and China's mainland. (Photographs by G. Paul
Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Along Fifth Avenue, small-chain retailers
cater to Latino buyers. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) (pg. 6)

Maps of Brooklyn showing the location of Sunset Park. (pgs. 1 & 6)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 3, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Log Cabin in New York

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 699 words


Poor Emma Lazarus, said the Senator, she never really understood.

Daniel Patrick Moynihan was talking to a small company assembled in a log cabin.
It doesn't look like the kind once built in the West but is as dim inside and
elemental outside, and had served the same purpose -- survival shelter for
pioneers.

This was a tenement on the Lower East Side. Immigrants from 25 European
countries lived there from the 1860's through the 1930's. They settled in New
York for the same reason that other immigrants or native-born pioneers had
pushed to the prairies -- to make a decent living and future for their families.
We were talking about what kind of people they were.

Emma Lazarus is famous for a verse she wrote, made into a plaque for the Statue
of Liberty. Senator Moynihan did not care much for it, which delighted me,
because I have always thought the nice lady got it all wrong -- the business
about give me your huddled masses, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore.

Huddled masses! Wretched refuse, imagine. Emma never got it; she was from a
prosperous German-Jewish family, meant well, but never got the point about these
people -- that they did not come as beggars but because they knew that America
was where people of honesty and will could make a splendid deal. They would give
their brain and muscle and what their civilizations had taught them in exchange
for honorable work and treatment in America.

In the tenement, now the Lower East Side Tenement Museum, I thought again what a
pity it was that Emma Lazarus and other writers did not know enough about the
urban pioneers to understand them as America thinks of the frontier pioneers.
They were like each other -- strong in mind, body and determination, ready to
put up with hardship because they believed in themselves and their new country,
and busting out with the daring needed to travel far from roots and the
adventuresomeness to keep learning, learning.

Oh, how I would have loved to hear my mother, Sarah, who had the guts of a
pirate queen, if she had known Emma Lazarus wrote of her as wretched refuse. She
would have made a puddle out of the woman.

In the Orchard Street log cabin, we encountered all kinds of European immigrants
-- German, Irish, Jewish, Polish, Italian, name it. Their apartments seemed dark
and small, but by the time we saw them each had a water tap, and at least a
shared indoor toilet. Nobody's dream, but often better than the nightmare left
behind. The sun did not get in, but hope did.

The pioneers are long gone and the building had been boarded up for decades. But
in their apartments, among their possessions and photographs, and listening to
Ruth Abrams, the museum president, talk about their lives, we knew they were
still part of America.

Thousands of other immigrant families live in the neighborhood -- mostly Asian
and Hispanic. The same mean things are said about them that were said about
Germans, Jews, Italians and Irish -- grabby people, loud, uncouth.

The museum is one of the city's fascinating places if you have a taste for
American reality. It can be a mind-clearer for descendants of European
immigrants peering down their noses at the new pioneers.

Senators Moynihan and Alfonse D'Amato have introduced legislation to affiliate
the foundation-backed museum with the National Park Service, to play a growing
role in the immigration communities all around. Visit soon; it will close for
renovations from Jan. 1 to April.

More pioneers lived in tenements than did in the other kind of log cabin. They
all had more interest in tomorrow than yesterday.

For a Thanksgiving article, Andrew Sullivan, the British writer and editor now
living in America, wrote for The Sunday Times of London: "What matters most for
Americans in small ways and large is never where you have come from but where
you are going, what you are doing now, or what you are about to become. . . . It
never ceases to amaze me that almost nobody has ever demanded to know by what
right I belong here."

Thanksgiving has passed. But Sarah the Pirate Queen and Harry, her brave prince,
never believed you were allowed to thank God for America only on one day a year.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 5, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Agency, After an Outcry, Changes Citizenship Plan

BYLINE: By IRVIN MOLOTSKY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 18;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 4


The Immigration and Naturalization Service announced a change in procedures for
background checks today after Republican accusations that it had allowed
convicted criminals to become citizens.

In the recent Presidential election campaign, Republicans said the
Administration's desire to speed up naturalization procedures so that more new
citizens could vote had resulted in immigrants being awarded citizenship even
though the F.B.I. had not completed fingerprint checks on them. Some Republicans
said the Administration believed that the new citizens would be likely to vote
Democratic.

The immigration service denied the Republican accusations that large numbers of
criminals had slipped through to citizenship.

"Until a review is completed," Eric Andrus, a spokesman, said today, "we do not
know how many, if any, individuals were wrongfully naturalized."

Of the change in procedure, Mr. Andrus said: "This was worked out with the
F.B.I. in recent months. The timing was not influenced at all by politics or the
election."

Under the new procedure, citizenship will not be granted until the Federal
Bureau of Investigation completes the fingerprint check.

In the past, Mr. Andrus said, the bureau had 60 days to complete the task, a
deadline that was extended to 120 days in June as a result of a huge increase in
citizenship applications. If the fingerprints had not been checked within that
time, a person would be awarded citizenship.

Representative Bill Zeliff, a New Hampshire Republican who heads a subcommittee
that has investigated immigration policies, said today that it was a "sad thing"
that the immigration service had waited until now to require fingerprint checks
before citizenship was granted.

"That is what we should have done all along," Mr. Zeliff said.

The immigration service said it did not yet know how many people would be
affected by the policy change. Mr. Andrus suggested that the number would be
small, based on a naturalization ceremony conducted under the new rules on
Monday in Fresno, Calif.

Of 735 people scheduled to take the oath, he said, 641 became naturalized
citizens, 22 did not show up and 72 were told that their swearing in had to be
postponed until the fingerprint check could be completed.

"It is very likely that all have no criminal records and will be naturalized
later," Mr. Andrus said.

The new procedure is part of a program instituted partly at the behest of
Congress, Mr. Andrus said, to make the citizenship application process smoother
despite a great increase in immigration. The number of applications has
quadrupled, to 1.3 million in 1996 from 342,000 in 1992.

Mr. Zeliff said he did not know how many felons had gained citizenship because
of a lack of fingerprint checks. "But we never should have let any through,"
said the Congressman, who is chairman of the Government Reform and Oversight's
Subcommittee on National Security, International Affairs and Criminal Justice.

While some Republicans have said that the Administration had sought to gain
Democratic votes by adding new citizens to the voting rolls, Mr. Zeliff said, "I
don't know if they voted Democratic, but there is evidence that the Democratic
Party tried to get these people signed up in hopes that they would vote
Democratic."

Attorney General Janet Reno today rejected a request from Mr. Zeliff and other
Republican members of the House that an independent counsel be appointed to
investigate the Administration program that led to the dispute over fingerprint
checks.

John C. Keeney, an acting Assistant Attorney General, said in a letter to Mr.
Zeliff that there was no credible evidence of crimes committed by top-level
officials of the program, which is called Citizenship U.S.A.

Mr. Zeliff said, "I am disappointed because we felt that laws were broken by
lowering standards."

He added that the violations occurred in the "highest levels of our Government."

"Now we will do it at our own subcommittee," Mr. Zeliff said, saying it would
schedule hearings soon.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: More Citizens" shows the number of people
applying for citizenship and number naturalized from 1990 to 1996. (Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Service)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 5, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Lazarus's 'Masses'

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 207 words


To the Editor:

In an otherwise moving tribute to America's immigrants, A. M. Rosenthal has done
Emma Lazarus a disservice (column, Dec. 3). He selects for sharp rebuke two
phrases -- "huddled masses" and "wretched refuse" -- from the four lines of her
poem "The New Colossus" that are inscribed on the Statue of Liberty. But how
could he fail to cite the essence of those lines, the words "yearning to breathe
free"?

Emma Lazarus showed impressive prescience more than 100 years ago in seeing
America as the dream for "masses" all over the world who yearned to be free and
who chose America as the opportunity to realize that dream. If a few of her
words were perhaps not too happily selected, the theme of her poem has been
justifiably hailed by generations of Americans.

At the turn of the century, my parents were among those "yearning to breathe
free" when they journeyed from Poland to Ellis Island. If they hadn't, they
surely would have been among the 80 of their relatives devoured by the Holocaust
decades later. As the son of two immigrants, I have been proud to quote the
words of Emma Lazarus in speeches and writings over the years. I intend to
continue doing so.

HYMAN BOOKBINDER
Bethesda, Md., Dec. 3, 1996

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 8, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-Head of Newark Immigration Office Says He Was Punished for Opposing
Corruption

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1341 words


Soon after Warren Lewis took charge of the Newark office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, he said, he began to notice signs of corruption.

Agents conducting raids for illegal aliens seemed to avoid certain areas and
businesses, and Newark International Airport was producing far fewer cases of
people trying to enter the country illegally than would be expected for an
immigration hub of its size. In particular, Mr. Lewis said, he began to wonder
why his office's third-ranking official had reserved for himself the right to
approve or deny entry to any suspicious person trying to enter the country
through the airport. That duty was typically held by someone far lower in the
chain of command.

Mr. Lewis said he told his superiors and internal investigators at the Justice
Department about his concerns. But he said his efforts were either ignored or
actively opposed by high-ranking officials in the Federal immigration service.

Eventually, Mr. Lewis said, he was forced to go outside the agency. He brought
his evidence to the attention of the United States Attorney for New Jersey,
Faith S. Hochberg. Although Ms. Hochberg has declined to comment, officials
familiar with the case said Mr. Lewis provided important information for an
investigation her office was already conducting. That investigation has resulted
in the conviction of the No. 3 official, John Lonergan, on charges of taking
bribes and falsifying documents to help immigrants enter the country illegally.

Mr. Lewis, who is now deputy director of the immigration service office in
Baltimore, made his assertions in a complaint filed under the Federal
Whistleblower Protection Act. He said he had been transferred out of the Newark
office because of his efforts to deal with corruption, and has asked to be
restored as Newark district director. He also said the agency failed to correct
news reports that he had been moved because of an involvement in the corruption.

Officials of the immigration service said they cannot comment on Mr. Lewis's
complaint because it is a personnel matter. But a spokesman, Eric Andrus, said
that the Justice Department -- not his agency -- handled complaints of
corruption in the immigration service. Mr. Andrus also said the service had
cooperated fully with the Federal investigation of Mr. Lonergan.

Bert Brandenburg, a Justice Department spokesman, said investigators had already
begun looking into corruption in Newark when Mr. Lewis approached the inspector
general's office. He said the agents did not tell Mr. Lewis because they wanted
to keep their investigation secret.

Mr. Lewis's claim comes at a troubled time for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, both in New Jersey and nationally. Top officials of the
agency were recently disciplined after Federal investigators found they had
deceived Congress about poor conditions at a detention center in Miami. In
Newark, Mr. Lonergan was convicted in November and another agent pleaded guilty
in March to accepting a $4,000 bribe in return for an agency template that could
be used to manufacture papers needed to obtain green cards.

In a 1995 raid on a New Jersey cleaning company, investigators found more than
60 fraudulently issued work papers, some of which appeared to have been smuggled
out of the Newark immigration office. The investigators have said they did not
tell several high-ranking Newark officials about the raid for fear of tipping
off the company.

Mr. Lewis's complaint describes in detail the difficulties he faced when he was
assigned to take charge of the Newark office in May 1994. From the perspective
of a career manager for the immigration service, the complaint paints a picture
of an agency troubled by factionalism and an old-boy network that blocked
reform.

The Newark office is one of the most important of the service's 36 district
offices, and one of the 5 busiest in the country. Last year it reviewed the
documents of 1.8 million travelers, most at Newark International Airport, where
the number of international flights has jumped in the last decade.

When Mr. Lewis took over the office, he had spent 18 years in the immigration
service and two years at the Federal Aviation Administration. One of only three
black agents ever appointed to head an immigration service district office, Mr.
Lewis had consistently received high performance reviews before arriving in
Newark.

"Soon after entering on duty, Mr. Lewis concluded that the office did not appear
to be producing the number or quality of cases of violations of the immigration
laws that would be expected of a city like Newark with a relatively large amount
of immigration activity," Mr. Lewis's complaint said. "Mr. Lewis was especially
concerned at the low level of investigative and enforcement activity at Newark
International Airport, a major point of entry and employment for illegal
aliens."

In a recent interview, Mr. Lewis said he became concerned about possible
corruption among senior members of his staff, particularly Mr. Lonergan, who
controlled the airport. He said he would not describe his suspicions in detail
because there was a current criminal investigation of the office.

Mr. Lewis said his suspicions led him to reorganize the office. Soon after, he
said, he began to receive threatening messages on the display screen of his
electronic pager, like "Heed this message, back off" and "I hate you." Mr. Lewis
said he told the Federal Bureau of Investigation and began to carry a gun. He
said he also began to relay his suspicions to the Justice Department's inspector
general, and eventually approached the United States Attorney.

Mr. Lewis said he also began to receive pressure on Mr. Lonergan's behalf from
the immigration service's third-ranking official, William S. Slattery. Mr.
Slattery, the bureau's executive associate commissioner, is a longtime friend of
Mr. Lonergan and was a character witness for the defense in Mr. Lonergan's
criminal trial this year. A spokesman for the immigration service said Mr.
Slattery would not comment on Mr. Lewis's statement because of the ongoing
investigation of the Newark office.

According to Mr. Lewis's complaint, the pressure reached a high point during the
search for a new deputy director for the Newark office in 1995. Despite the
criminal investigation of Mr. Lonergan, Mr. Slattery chose him for the job in
May 1995.

"Mr. Lewis called U.S. Attorney Hochberg and the F.B.I. and informed them of Mr.
Slattery's decision," Mr. Lewis's complaint said. The call, it said, prompted a
high-level meeting at the Justice Department, and the selection certificate was
never issued.

The Justice Department would not comment on Mr. Lewis's claim. But his account
was confirmed by officials with knowledge of the case, who would speak only on
condition of anonymity.

Mr. Lewis also said he tried to bring his concerns about the Newark office and
his difficulty in dealing with Mr. Lonergan to the attention of the immigration
service Commissioner, Doris Meissner. After two weeks of trying to reach Ms.
Meissner by telephone, Mr. Lewis said, he had a letter delivered to her by hand.
Mr. Lewis said Ms. Meissner initially agreed to speak with him, but never did.

In early 1996, the immigration service upgraded the district director's position
in Newark to a higher civil service designation. Mr. Lewis applied for the new
position, but was turned down. He has claimed in his Whistleblower complaint
that the refusal was based on his attempts to deal with corruption.

"To make matters worse, I.N.S. has made no effort to correct the media's
incorrect assumption that Mr. Lewis has been removed from his position for
tolerating or participating in the deep-seated corruption in the Newark
District," Mr. Lewis's complaint said. "Never has the I.N.S. stated the true
facts: that it was Mr. Lewis who exposed the corruption, reported it to his own
supervisors -- who would not take action against Mr. Lonergan -- and eventually
turned the matter over to the U.S. Attorney."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 15, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Neediest Cases;
From Ukraine, With Cab Fare And Hope, But Not Much Else

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 65; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 886 words


For a week after winning green cards in a United States immigration lottery,
Boris and Luba Umansky of Zaporozhe, Ukraine, agonized over their good fortune.
"I could not eat," Mr. Umansky said. "I could not sleep. To go, not to go. To
stay, not to stay. We didn't know what to do."

They had never been to America and did not know anyone there. They did not speak
English. In their 60's, they had not planned on starting a new life. Their son
and daughter-in-law urged them. "Please go," they said. "At least we will have
some connection."

They flew to New York with a friend, Nelly Bogush, whom they had met during
interviews at the United States Embassy in Warsaw. They arrived at Kennedy
International Airport, a trio of Old World hope and apprehension, late one
Friday night in November 1995. They expected to be met at the airport and given
a place to stay.

But there was no one to greet them. Mr. Umansky had written to an agency that
helps refugees, not realizing that all immigrants do not fall into that
category. The slight distinction meant they now had nowhere to go and, worse, no
one to take them there.

"It was the greatest shock in our life," said Mr. Umansky, 64, a short man with
a round ruddy face, ample paunch and curly gray hair. "The Air France company
found somebody who spoke Russian. They told us at the airport, 'We can take you
to a hotel.' "

In Ukraine, Mr. Umansky served in the military, and his wife worked for a
contractor. They sold their apartment, their car and a small dacha in the
country to buy the airline tickets. Ms. Bogush, a piano teacher, also sold her
apartment. Together they had about $1,000.

They took a taxi to the Metropole Hotel in Corona, Queens, a neighborhood where
many immigrants from the former Soviet Union have settled. On 108th Street, Mr.
Umansky, who is Jewish, approached a young man wearing a yarmulke.

"I told him that I am in a critical condition," he said. "I have no money to pay
for a hotel. What should I do? He said, 'Let me talk to my parents. Maybe they
can help you.' " The father said Mr. and Mrs. Umansky and Ms. Bogush could stay
with his family in their two-room apartment in Corona for a few days. They
stayed for nearly a month.

To avoid being detected by the landlord, they left at 6 A.M. daily and did not
return until after 6 P.M. They wandered Queens looking for an apartment and for
jobs.

Mr. Umansky was getting desperate. At the Rego Park Jewish Center, he was given
Fira Furman's number at the Rego Park Counseling Center, across the street. He
called from a pay phone. "Can we come see you?" he asked in Russian, his voice
calm but his tone imploring.

"No, sir," said Ms. Furman, who works with new immigrants. "You have to have an
appointment." It was late. She was ready to go home.

"You have to see us right away," he said. "Otherwise, I will do a suicide. I was
a military officer; I know how to do it."

Ms. Furman was shaken. As a caseworker she had taken many calls for help. No one
had threatened suicide. She received the Umanskys and Ms. Bogush at her office a
few minutes later.

The center is run by the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, an
affiliate of UJA-Federation of New York, one of seven agencies supported by The
New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, more than 135,000 immigrants and
refugees from itsrepublics have come to live in New York City. Many have needed
help, but few end up in truly dire need. While the green-card lottery is
designed to give people with little or no connection to the United States a
chance to immigrate, winners still must show that they have a destination and a
means of support.

"The immigrant visa would not have been issued to somebody who said they are
going to come to the airport and figure it out from there," said Bill
Strassberger, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "The
days of arriving at Ellis Island and just sort of showing up in the city are
past."

How the Umanskys and Ms. Bogush slipped through is uncertain. The consular
officer in Warsaw might have thought they could support themselves. Regardless,
Ms. Furman faced three people who had no home, no jobs and no money.

One of her clients agreed to let the three sleep on the floor of her one-room
apartment in Far Rockaway, Queens. With the help of the Neediest Cases Fund, Ms.
Furman enrolled them in a course to become home-care attendants. She found them
jobs right away, and a friend, a building manager in Far Rockaway, found the
Umanskys an apartment. They moved in last March.

Ms. Bogush is staying with them while her application for public housing is
processed. The one-bedroom apartment is sparse but comfortable. There are
English-language books everywhere.

They work as home-care attendants for $6 an hour, struggling to pay the bills.
They miss their children in Ukraine. But last year's odyssey of despair is a
fading memory.

Mr. Umansky has offered to repay the Counseling Center, but Ms. Furman explained
that the money had been given to help people like him. "We are not trying to get
something for nothing," he said. "We are working hard. And especially when our
children come, they are very smart. They will bring a lot. America is good
because it's a country of immigrants."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "To go, not to go. To stay, not to stay," Boris Umansky said of
the decision he and his wife, Luba, made to emigrate from Ukraine. But before
settling into their own apartment in Far Rockaway, Queens, the Umanskys found
themselves in desperate straits. At right, the couple in earlier times, he in
Soviet army uniform. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

Chart: "HOW TO HELP"

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O.
Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.
11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue, New York,
N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.


FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y.
10010.

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
130 East 59th Street, Room 427, New York, N.Y. 10022.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York
Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the
charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes
to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 15, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Neediest Cases;
City of Immigrants, Pausing, Offers A Belated Welcome

SECTION: Section 1; Page 65; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 264 words


Immigrants have been helped by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund since its
inception. Adolph S. Ochs, publisher of The Times, began the fund after
encountering a pauper, an immigrant, on Christmas night in 1911. Mr. Ochs
believed that if readers of his newspaper knew how some of their neighbors
lived, they would want to help. So the next year, a reporter searched the files
of social service agencies to write about the city's 100 neediest cases. They
included an Armenian immigrant who suffered from leprosy and the widow and four
children of an Italian immigrant who had died of tuberculosis and who all
suffered from the disease. The fund's 85th annual appeal, now under way, runs
through Feb. 28. The Times pays all administrative expenses so donations can go
directly to services for people who need them. And those who need them,
officials of social service agencies say, are increasingly going to be
immigrants affected by the new Federal welfare law, which sharply restricts
Government assistance for noncitizens, among others. More than two million
immigrants live in New York City today, and traditionally, Senator Daniel
Patrick Moynihan has noted, immigrants are among its hardest workers. "Those
tenement scenes of the Lower East Side were in fact a thriving and prosperous
population; they were just packed in," he said. "Emma Lazarus, wherever she is
in heaven, has a lot to account for. They weren't the wretched refuse of
anybody's shores. They come here to work." And work, as they so often find, is
not easy to come by. Here are some of their stories.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 15, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: ELMHURST;
Lefrak City: Racial Redux With a Twist

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 9;  Column 5;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 345 words


They sat around a large table discussing a future of peaceful coexistence: a
rabbi from Tashkent, two Uzbeki Jews, a Catholic businessman, a black American
who converted to Islam, a Guinean Muslim and two Argentines.

It was not the United Nations. It was a schoolroom in the new Lefrak City Jewish
Center.

The opening three months ago of the Jewish center and synagogue in the
25,000-resident housing complex has signaled a resurgence of a Jewish community
that picked up and moved out after the Lefrak Organization was sued in the early
70's for discrimination against blacks. As a remedy, 50 apartments were made
available to black families with the first month's rent free. Jews began to
depart in large numbers, and the complex's only synagogue closed.

Today, with rising immigration from former Soviet-bloc lands, the Jewish
population of Lefrak City has risen to the point that a new synagogue is needed.
And the leaders of the resurgent Jewish community here say they are committed to
working with the complex's black population, a combination of Americans who are
longtime residents and West African Muslims who have settled here over the past
decade. The various ethnic groups have been meeting in the Jewish Center to
discuss ways to bring the Lefrak community together. "We want the children to
grow up together," said Bluma Palvanova, an immigrant from Uzbekistan who moved
to the complex four years ago. "Skin and religion don't matter."

Said Jalal Abdul-Wajih, "That is correct." A Lefrak security guard and a convert
to Islam whose name tag reads J. Williams, Mr. Adbul-Wajih said, "We are all
from the blood of Abraham."

The center has become the hub of Jewish life in Lefrak City, a place to
congregate and embrace a religion and culture denied to many of the immigrants
for so long, said David Leviyev, president of the center.

"In the Soviet Union, it was very, very difficult to be Jewish," said Mr.
Leviyev, a former heavyweight Olympic boxer for the Soviet Union. "You quit the
religion or you lose your job."   CHARLIE LeDUFF

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 22, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Helping the Most Vulnerable Newcomers

SECTION: Section 4; Page 8; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 543 words


New York City's ability to assist the poorest members of its many immigrant
communities, particularly the young and the disabled, is in peril this holiday
season. No less than half the city's population is either foreign-born or
descended from a foreign-born parent. The hard work and entrepreneurial spirit
of these newcomers have brought many neighborhoods back to life. Yet the need to
assist the most vulnerable members of the immigrant community is greater than
ever. Such help can be provided through many of the charitable organizations
supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases appeal for 1996-97.

Assistance to New York's immigrants has been a hallmark of the city's charitable
tradition since the early part of this century, when 80 percent of its
population was foreign-born or descended directly from someone who was.
Immigrants face special difficulties when a relative falls sick or a source of
income is cut off. They often need language skills, housing, job training and
sometimes simply food and emergency shelter. Their children need help adjusting
to the demands of a new society. Government alone cannot do the job.

The immigrants' plight may soon get worse. Within a few months, food stamps and
disability payments will be cut off from legal immigrants by the welfare changes
enacted by Congress earlier this year. Private agencies are bracing to try to
fill the gaps. The Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, one of seven
organizations receiving help from the Neediest Cases appeal, is already seeing a
surge in customers at its food pantries and kitchens as a result of cuts in the
Federal food stamp program. The federation needs help for all its 260
constituent agencies, which distribute food and provide foster care, child
welfare services and health care programs for the elderly.

The Catholic Charities of the Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens, another
organization that receives help from the Neediest Cases fund, supports programs
that provide courses in English and job skills, followed by help in job
placement. The agency's assistance, though sometimes small in dollar amounts,
can make the difference between a program's success and failure. The United
Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, still another recipient of
Neediest Cases help, specializes in services for immigrants from the former
Soviet Union who have flooded in over the past five years.

Like immigrants of the past, the Jews from Russia, Ukraine and other places in
the collapsed Soviet empire bring skills, dedication and hope. The
U.J.A.-Federation provides vital services through its Y.M.H.A.'s, community
centers and other agencies. They help these newcomers prepare to become
citizens, and help their children cope with their new environments. Some of the
families that received help in the 1970's are now in a position to repay the
generosity, contributing money to the federation to help the new waves of
immigrants.

New York City owes it to history and its future to help newcomers and others in
need. Contributions are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law. Checks
should be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and mailed to
P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 29, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LOOKING BACK, LOOKING AHEAD -- NEIGHBORHOOD POLITICS
LOOKING BACK, LOOKING AHEAD;
Ethnic Groups Inch Toward Political Mainstream, Buoying Hopes for 1997 Races

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 739 words


Even though immigrant New Yorkers sought citizenship at a record pace in 1996,
it was still a bit early to expect a groundswell of electoral activism to buoy
their compatriots into elected office. Still, as demographic shifts brought new
rhythms to old neighborhoods, ethnic groups once on the political fringe inched
toward the mainstream, and community leaders optimistically eyed the 1997
Council races.

Among the most unexpected shifts came in the 19th State Senate District, which
covers formerly Italian and Jewish enclaves in east Brooklyn. John L. Sampson, a
political neophyte whose father is from Guyana and whose mother is from South
Carolina, wrested the Democratic nomination from veteran Sen.. Howard E. Babbush
-- who has long been under indictment in an alleged no-show job scheme -- and
won the seat with 93 percent of the vote.

Mr. Sampson, 31, said his victory was in part due to the influx of black and
Hispanic voters to the district, stretching from East Flatbush to Brownsville to
Canarsie. But, he said, he was also aided by young people voting for the first
time and Mr. Babbush's record in the Senate.

An influx of new immigrants did not guarantee their compatriots' success at the
polls. For instance, in the heavily Caribbean neighborhood of Flatbush,
Brooklyn, James T. Conolly, a native of the Cayman Islands, lost his bid to oust
State Assemblywoman Rhoda S. Jacobs, an 18-year incumbent who is white. And in
the heavily Asian-American neighborhood of Flushing, Queens, Steven Chen, a
Chinese-American lawyer and a Republican, was handily defeated by Brian M.
McLaughlin, the Assemblyman in the largely Democratic 25th District.

But the emergence of such candidates and rising turnouts of immigrants at the
polls buoyed the spirits of political leaders in ethnic enclaves. They cited the
victory of Adriano D. Espaillat, who was elected to represent Washington Heights
in the State Assembly. Political observers credited Mr. Espaillat's narrow
victory over John Brian Murtaugh, who represented the 72d District for 16 years,
to the budding political muscle of newly naturalized Dominicans in the
neighborhood.

"I figured Washington Heights was ripe territory," said Luis A. Miranda Jr.,
director of the Hispanic Federation of New York. "I think the next frontier is
Queens."

Asian-American leaders agreed about Queens. An exit poll conducted by the Asian
American Legal Defense and Education Fund found that one third of all
Asian-Americans polled in November were first-time voters, and nearly one in
five had been naturalized in the last two years. Margaret Fung, the group's
director, predicted a much higher turnout in 1997. "There will be
Asian-Americans on the ballot, and laws affecting immigrants will be an
important issue that people will want to express their views on," she said.

Mr. Chen is among three Chinese-Americans -- Ethel Chen and Pauline Chu are the
others -- said to be vying for the Council seat held for 30 years by
Councilwoman Julia Harrison, who was excoriated this year for hostile remarks
about Asian immigrants in her district.

In southeastern Queens, two natives of Guyana -- the city's fourth largest
immigrant group -- unsuccessfully ran for State Assembly. In Far Rockaway,
Michael Duvalle, a Republican, lost by a wide margin to the incumbent, Gregory
W. Meeks, a Democrat, and in Ozone Park, Rameshwar Jodha lost the September
primary. Mr. Duvalle blamed his loss on the failure of the Queens Republican
Party to raise funds for his campaign and an absence of a Guyanese voting bloc.
But the campaigns were among the first forays into statewide politics by
Guyanese candidates, and community leaders took it as a sign that Guyanese
immigrants, who have long preferred to keep track of political doings back home,
may be shifting their attention toward local politics.

School board races in the spring gave about nearly a dozen Asian-Americans their
first shot at elected office. Some saw their election as the first step toward
running for higher office.

John Mollenkopf, a sociology professor at the City University of New York, said
a critical mass of voters among the newest ethnic groups will be necessary to
make a real dent in the political establishment. . "We may have to wait another
10 years for the children of the post-1965 immigrants to reach adulthood," he
said, "to be a truly potent political force."   SOMINI SENGUPTA

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: State Senator-elect John L. Sampson (far right) and James T.
Conolly, who ran for Assembly, took on veteran legislators. (Photographs by
Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

Table: "LEADERSHIP: Who's New In Politics" lists some of the new political
leaders of ethnic communities.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 30, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants in New York Pressing Drive for Dual Nationality

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1735 words


Over the last several years, Dominicans, Colombians, Mexicans and others among
New York City's newest and largest immigrant groups have been pressing their
native countries, often successfully, for the right to retain their citizenship
of birth, even after they become citizens of this country.

Proponents say immigrants have much to gain from the dual status. American
citizenship brings many benefits -- especially now that the welfare law limits
payments to noncitizens, while homeland citizenship often enables expatriates to
vote in elections and to invest in their birth countries free of the
restrictions that are placed on foreigners.

But for the United States, the drive for dual nationality raises prickly
questions about the allegiances and assimilation of immigrants, along with more
tangible matters like military duty, extradition and taxes, historians and
constitutional scholars say.

Dual citizenship is not new. Some countries, like Ireland and Poland, have long
allowed their sons and daughters abroad to retain their birthright. But
immigrants of an earlier era were not as likely to have had -- or pressed for --
dual nationality.

Today, new technology and the globalization of the economy help immigrants to
maintain connections to their native countries more easily than their
predecessors, and dual nationality, in effect, codifies their stake in both
homes.

"Many people live an existence that's transnational," said Linda Basch, an
anthropologist and the co-author of "Nations Unbound: Transnational Projects,
Postcolonial Predicaments and Deterritorialized Nation States (Gordon & Breach,
1985). "They have families in both places. They invest in both places. They get
involved in politics in both places. It's difficult at this historical moment to
think of people leaving location A and coming to location B and that's that."

The United States generally allows its citizens to become foreign nationals
without losing their American citizenship.

A State Department spokeswoman, Suzanne Lawrence, said that while the United
States does not encourage dual nationality -- and would prefer to avoid its
complications -- it cannot control what another nation allows. Numbers remain a
mystery: with so many different countries involved, Ms. Lawrence said, it is
impossible to determine how many dual nationals live in the United States.

In New York City, 7 of the 10 largest immigrant groups have the right to be dual
nationals, and just this month Mexican-Americans, one of the fastest-growing
immigrant groups in the city, won a legislative victory in Mexico that opens the
door for dual citizenship for them.

Two years ago, the Dominican Republic's Legislature approved a similar law,
allowing its expatriates to vote, run for office and invest more freely in their
island nation.

Ecuador approved dual nationality last year, though it does not permit voting in
its overseas consulates.

In Trinidad and Tobago, which has allowed the practice since 1988, dual
nationals can vote only if they have lived there for a year prior to elections.

"There's a whole new perception in the immigrant's mind," said Austin T.
Fragomen, a partner in Fragomen, Del Rey & Bernsen, a leading immigration law
firm in Manhattan. "It used to be they were leaving one place and adapting to a
new location. Now, when people leave one country for another, they want to
retain ties. They may have business interests and they want to participate fully
in both. Your native country isn't as remote anymore."

Four years ago, Colombian immigrants to the United States successfully lobbied
for a Colombian constitutional amendment allowing them to retain the privileges
of Colombian nationality.

Colombian nationals can vote -- either in Colombia or at a Colombian consulate
abroad -- and run for office in their homeland, even after they become United
States citizens.

Saramaria Archela, who runs the Latin American Integration Center, a
social-services agency in Woodside, Queens, said that before the passage of the
amendment, many of her Colombian compatriots in New York resisted naturalizing.
But after passage of the new law, Colombians flooded the agency for citizenship
papers.

In the 1994 fiscal year, according to the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, 12,067 Colombians became American citizens, more than
double their numbers in 1991.

"They are relieved now," said Ms. Archela, who had testified in Colombia's
Legislature in favor of dual nationality. "This is very important for the
Hispanic community. Hispanic people need to be involved in the political process
here."

In Mexico, the Congress voted on Dec. 10 to grant Mexican citizens living
outside the country the right to cast ballots in presidential elections.

The law, which had been pushed by the ruling party and is expected to be
ratified by Mexico's 31 state legislatures and President Ernesto Zedillo in
1997, would offer voting rights to more than five million Mexican expatriates
living in the United States.

Mexicans have among the lowest rates of naturalization in the United States.
Dual nationality could change that for Mexican immigrants like Ofelia Mora, who
moved from Chinantla, Mexico, to Borough Park, Brooklyn, in 1971 but has yet to
become a United States citizen.

"That's wonderful," she said. "I'm not a citizen yet. I would like to get it,
but I would like to keep my nationality, too."

Mrs. Mora's ties to Mexico are firm. She has sent her children back to Chinantla
every summer. And during one of those trips a few years ago, her daughter,
Nancy, now 23, competed in and won the Chinantla beauty pageant. But for the
first time, prompted by the Federal law that will cut off Social Security
benefits to legal immigrants like her, Mrs. Mora, 38, is considering United
States citizenship.

She hopes that dual nationality will make it easier to buy property back home
and allow her to vote and help shape Mexico's political destiny.

"We need some change," she said of the Mexican Government. "If we have another
party, maybe it will be better. We've never tried it before."

Some of the loudest proponents of dual nationality are elites within immigrant
communities. While immigrants rich and poor send vital dollars home, wealthier
immigrants are the ones who say they yearn for the right to own property and
invest in businesses unthwarted by regulations that apply to foreigners.

"Dominicans abroad have been called the dorsal column of the Dominican economy,"
said Dr. Rafael Lantingua of Washington Heights in Manhattan, a Dominican native
and naturalized American citizen. "We are the main supporters of the Dominican
economy. And if we are, we should have a say in what's happening in the
country."

A spokesman at the Dominican Consulate General, Hector Ramirez, said remittances
from abroad account for 10 to 15 percent of the income of his country, where the
new prime minister was once a United States green-card holder.

City Councilman Guillermo Linares, a native of the Dominican Republic who became
a United States citizen more than 20 years ago, agreed that economics was the
driving force behind dual nationality, though it also signified an opportunity
to remain Dominican.

"There was a feeling you would be betraying your nationality, that you would
automatically lose your nationality if you naturalized," said Mr. Linares, whose
district includes Washington Heights, the city's Dominican mecca. "But what I
think was the most fundamental concern was wanting to invest in the Dominican
Republic."

In India, the Bharatiya Janata Party, the rightist Hindu-nationalist bloc that
temporarily captured the prime minister's seat earlier this year, had also
pledged in its election platform to consider granting dual nationality to
expatriates, known as nonresident Indians, or N.R.I.'s. The party has since been
forced to give up the post.

"They consider the N.R.I.'s as assets," said Dr. Mukund Mody, a Staten Island
pediatrician and president of an influential group called Overseas Friends of
the Bharatiya Janata Party. "They would like to make conditions such that they
could feel at home."

During Indian elections last spring, Dr. Mody advised party leaders almost daily
on matters ranging from Kashmir policy to economic reforms. A senior party
leader was appointed to serve as a liaison to supporters of the party abroad.

That kind of expatriate intervention has led to concerns about people living in
the United States having excessive influence in their homelands. Dr. Vijay
Prashad, an Indian historian who teaches at Trinity College in Hartford, said
that even without dual nationality, middle-class Indian-Americans and their
investment dollars already wield too much power over matters in that country.

"This community need not have its political influence codified any more," said
Dr. Prashad, a critic of dual nationality.

Others point out the practical problems of dual nationality, especially if it
applies to large numbers of immigrants. Peter Schuck, the author of "Citizenship
Without Consent" (Yale University Press, 1985), who is a law professor at Yale
University, said, "In the event of war, there might be dual or multiple claims
on the individual to serve."

Dan Stein, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform
in Washington, which has long argued for more controls on immigration,
criticized dual nationality as a sign of a reluctance on the part of immigrants
to assimilate. All immigrants, he asserted, should naturalize and maintain
allegiance only to the United States. "We are of the view that you ought to get
on board or get out," he said. "At some point, you start looking like Rome, with
an influx of alien hordes who never get on board."

Rising concerns about immigration in this country has made dual nationality more
appealing as a form of emotional security. Dr. Evelyn Hu-DeHart, a professor of
history and ethnic studies at the University of Colorado at Boulder, said that
immigrants who are members of racial minority groups are more likely to feel
like outsiders in America. Asians, she said, were not allowed to naturalize
until 1952.

"Perhaps they don't want to vest everything in U.S. citizenship," said Dr.
Hu-DeHart, who emigrated from Hong Kong in 1959 and became an American citizen
in 1965, "because they don't know how much it will protect them."


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Rafael Lantingua, a Dominican native and naturalized
American, says Dominicans abroad want "a say" in their homeland. He stood
outside a clinic at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. (Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times) (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 5, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

2 Ship Immigrants Freed

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., Jan. 4


The oldest two men to have traveled to the United States aboard the Golden
Venture freighter, which ran aground off a New York City beach on June 6, 1993,
have been released from a prison here.

The men, Xin Zheng Bin, 40, and Chen Fen Hou, 41, were released Friday by
immigration officials after three and a half years of detention. They were
paroled after Congress approved a law making the threat of forced family
planning, including abortion and sterilization, grounds for asylum. A Federal
judge will decide whether their cases meet the standards of the new law.

Craig Trebilcock, head of the refugee committee for the York County Bar
Association, said more people from the Golden Venture probably would be released
from the prison next week. Forty are being held in York.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 5, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Disney Cartoon Becomes a Morality Play for Paris

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 761 words

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 4


The French, who managed to find philosophy in the films of Jerry Lewis, are
finding a powerful moral lesson in the animated film "The Hunchback of Notre
Dame," one that even makes some of them willing to forgive Walt Disney Studios
for taking such huge liberties with the Victor Hugo novel that inspired it.

The movie opened in France just as the Christmas shopping season began, months
after its release in the United States, and remains the No. 2 box office draw in
Paris.

Acres of advertising billboards and the marketing hoopla that flooded French
department stores with dolls of the film's hero, Quasimodo, and miniatures of
Notre Dame Cathedral no doubt helped make it so popular.

But it was an event from last August that gave a mere cartoon moral resonance
here -- the dawn raid in which the police beat down the doors of the Roman
Catholic Church of St.-Bernard de la Chapelle in Paris and hauled out more than
200 illegal immigrants who had sought asylum from France's tough expulsion laws.

In the Disney movie, the dark-skinned Gypsy Esmeralda seeks asylum in Notre Dame
from the evil magistrate Frollo, transformed by the film from the troubled
cathedral archdeacon of Hugo's "Notre Dame de Paris." In the novel she dies
cruelly, but in the film she is saved by Quasimodo and the handsome Phoebus, the
rebel captain of the guards. All three live happily ever after instead of dying,
as both Quasimodo and Esmeralda did in the book.

Most critics here pay that no mind.

" 'The Hunchback of Notre Dame' tells nothing less than the story of the illegal
immigrants of Saint Bernard," wrote Sibylle Vincendon, an editor of the
left-leaning daily Liberation, in a review that went on to compare Frollo's
campaign against the Gypsies to the campaign promises of the far-right political
leader Jean-Marie Le Pen to send all foreigners in France back to where they
came from.

"It is enough to replace the word 'Gypsies' with 'immigrants,' and Frollo
becomes a perfect Le Pen," Ms. Vincendon wrote, although there is a complete
lack of physical resemblance between the avuncular-looking Mr. Le Pen and the
sneering cartoon character.

"The theme of discrimination is explored the whole length of the film," wrote Le
Monde, which found that Dumbo also suffered, in the 1941 Disney animated
feature, for having ears that were too big.

As for the solidly middle-class conservative newspaper Le Figaro, it noted that
while the Disney studios recast Victor Hugo's story, the storyboard was partly
the work of two French cartoonists, Paul and Gaetan Brizzi. The Americans, Le
Figaro said, had given a remarkably faithful rendition of Notre Dame itself,
stained glass windows, statuary and all.

But it's the politics of a movie that interests the French more than anything
else, and when the good captain of the guards whispers "Demand the right of
asylum!" to Esmeralda, many have said that the asylum-seekers of St. Bernard
spring immediately to mind.

"It is difficult not to think of the undocumented immigrants of St. Bernard when
Frollo tries to sweep out the 'rabble,"' said Marie-Therese Delboulbes, another
reviewer.

Asylum did not work for the immigrants, most of them Africans, in St. Bernard
when riot police raided the church last Aug. 23, ending a seven-week occupation
and a hunger strike by 10 of them that lasted just as long. Most of the
immigrants had been living clandestinely in France for years, had families here
and were demanding the right to stay on legally.

Since the raid, 101 of them have been promised legal papers, according to a
spokesman for the group, Ababacar Diop, who said that only 13 had been deported
until Friday, when authorities put one man and tried to force another onto a
plane for Mali. A few others are being held for possible expulsion, but French
courts freed the rest last summer, and many melted back into the immigrant
underground.

How many illegal immigants there are in a country where more than 3.5 million
foreigners live legally is a matter of dispute. But with unemployment at the
highest level since World War II -- 12.7 percent in November, according to
Government figures issued on Dec. 30 -- the conservative Government is under
pressure to deal summarily with foreigners here illegally.

The Interior Ministry has thrown out nearly 12,000 foreigners without proper
papers since the beginning of the year, and before its Christmas recess, the
national legislature tightened up already strict immigration laws to allow the
deportation of legal immigrants if they commit violent crimes.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Metro Digest

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 736 words



NEW YORK

Charting Immigration Trends

European immigration to New York City surged in the 1990's to levels unseen
since the 1960's. The Dominican Republic became more entrenched as the city's
largest source of immigrants. And more than 4 in every 10 births were to
immigrants. These are among the trends to emerge from a portrait of the 563,000
legal immigrants who poured into the city from 1990 to 1994. [Page A1.]


Pataki Vows to Cut Taxes

Promising to send the state "roaring into the next century," Governor Pataki
vowed to cut property taxes while increasing the amount of money spent on school
textbooks and computers. He made the comments in his third annual address to the
Legislature. [B1.]

With many legislators hostile to the Governor's announcement, he faces a tough
battle in a pivotal year. News analysis. [B7.]

All eyes were on Betsy McCaughey Ross: Would she stand or sit? [B7.]

If former Governor Mario M. Cuomo was Hamlet on the Hudson, Governor Pataki is
more Polonius from Peekskill. Metro Matters by Elizabeth Kolbert. [B7.]

A Gay Magazine Shuts Down

The New York Native, a gay news magazine that was credited in the early 1980's
with pioneering AIDS coverage but more recently has been criticized as a forum
for conspiracy theories, folded this week after 16 years of publication. [B2.]

Police Promotions Ordered

A State Supreme Court judge ordered the police department to promote hundreds of
officers to the rank of detective after 18 months of plainclothes work, throwing
a wrench into a city anti-drug initiative that had called for almost 900
officers to work temporarily as detectives. [B3.]

9th Graders Improve in Math

Nearly 25 percent more ninth graders passed the state's college-prep math exam
last June compared with the year before, but their achievement still lags behind
the rest of the state. [B4.]

4 Wounded in School Shooting

Four teen-agers were wounded, two of them critically, when gunfire erupted on a
basketball court outside a high school in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn,
disrupting classes and sending students fleeing and ducking for cover. [B1.]

Lox, Labor and Liberalism

In typical, Upper West Side fashion, some residents have raised their voices and
called for a community boycott of Citarella, an upscale gourmet and seafood
store that has been accused of unfair labor practices. But in an untypical
response, most of the self-described liberals are ignoring protesters at the
store, apparently unable to do without the fancy cheeses and crustaceans. [B1.]

Vacco Plea on Assisted Suicide

The New York Attorney General, Dennis Vacco, joined his counterpart from
Washington State in appearing before the United States Supreme Court to defend
their opposition to physician-assisted suicide. National report. [B9.]

50 Brokers Charged in Fraud

In what prosecutors say is the first case of widespread fraud in testing for
stockbrokers' licenses, 50 brokers were charged in New York Supreme Court with
having paid stand-ins to take their exams. Business Day. [D6.]

Some contributors to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund have increased their
donations, accelerating the fund to its best pace in five year. The Neediest
Cases. [B2.]

Two investigators for the state police retired after receiving an unusual
warning that they could face disciplinary action. [B6.]

NEW JERSEY

Renting in Hoboken? Good Luck

How hot is the rental market in Hoboken? How about so hot that there are about
10 apartment seekers for every available one- or two-bedroom walk-up near the
PATH station? It's so hot that one agency warns readers of its listings that
"due to the overwhelming demand for apartments . . . availability changes every
day." Our Towns by Evelyn Nieves. [B1.]

Move to Try Youths as Adults

Law-enforcement officials said that they would ask a judge to order that three
teen-agers charged with sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl be tried in adult
criminal court. If the petition is granted, the three would face considerably
more severe prison sentences if convicted. [B4.]

CONNECTICUT

Rowland Urges Staying Course

In a State of the State Address, Gov. John G. Rowland said Connecticut was in
the midst of an economic recovery and urged lawmakers to stay the course he set
in his two years in office. [B6.]

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 9, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

City of Immigrants Becoming More So in 90's

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1079 words


European immigration to New York City surged in the 1990's to levels unseen
since the 1960's. The Dominican Republic became even more entrenched as the
city's largest source of immigrants. And more than 4 in every 10 births in the
city were to immigrants, who are younger and have more children than
American-born women.

These are among the trends to emerge from a comprehensive portrait of the
563,000 legal immigrants who poured into the city from 1990 to 1994,
transforming its neighborhoods, filling its schools and staffing its small
businesses.

Average annual immigration to the city was 32 percent higher in the 1990's than
in the 1980's, a decade that itself brought the city its highest levels of
immigration since the 1920's. The city's planning department produced the
298-page report, "The Newest New Yorkers," which was released yesterday.

While the Caribbean and Asia continued to account for more than half the
immigration to the city, Europe lifted its share of the total to 22 percent in
the 1990's, from 9 percent in the 1980's. A surge in refugees from the former
Soviet Union and a special visa lottery that heavily benefited Irish and Polish
immigrants led to the increase.

The report was unable to measure how the inclusion of illegal immigrants, who
make up an estimated 16 percent of the city's immigrant population, would affect
the overall profile.

City officials presented the report's findings as confirmation of the
contribution immigrants have made to the city's resurgence. Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani, seeking re-election at a time when immigrants are becoming citizens
and voters by the tens of thousands, has called a news conference for today to
discuss the report at Ellis Island.

Yesterday, he said, "For those people in New York who are concerned -- 'Oh,
there are too many foreigners coming here and there are too many people that
look different or act different' -- please remember, that has been the key to
our success."

Joseph B. Rose, director of the Department of City Planning, said the report
showed that immigrants had bolstered the city's population while other cities'
had shrunk, and had revitalized its neighborhoods.

The report estimated that the city's population would have declined 9 percent,
rather than rising 3.5 percent, without the 856,000 immigrants who moved here in
the 1980's.  The report, a demographic profile based largely on data provided by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service, did not try to assess how much
immigrants had cost the city in welfare payments, social services or education.
Nor did it try to address the question of how much tax revenue had increased
because of immigration. But the flow of immigrants is influencing every aspect
of life in the city.

"Our social health is clearly linked to this stream of newcomers," Mr. Rose
said.

The report found that an extraordinarily diverse city has become even more so in
the 1990's. Immigrants from a raft of countries -- Senegal, Ghana, Nigeria,
Egypt, Guatemala, Bangladesh and Ireland -- have gained a new foothold here,
largely because of changes in Federal immigration laws.

Some won visas in a special Federal program that was originally intended
primarily for the Irish and the Poles but that has also benefited other groups
underrepresented in immigrant flows to the United States. Others were illegal
immigrants who gained legal status as a result of a 1986 law that provided
amnesty for those who had lived here since 1982. In the 1990's, they have begun
bringing their spouses and children into the country.

Joseph J. Salvo, director of the Planning Department's population division,
referred to the small, new groups of people from these countries as "seed
immigration" that will lead to burgeoning communities as those who establish
themselves bring their families from their homelands. "All of these groups can
be viewed as emerging players on the New York immigration scene," the report
said.

The data that have emerged about the illegal immigrants who surfaced during the
amnesty to legalize their status provide an unusual glimpse of those who were
once underground and how their composition differed from the legal immigrants.

For example, while Mexicans made up only 1 percent of the legal immigrants to
the city in the 15 years before the 1986 law, 7 percent of the 125,700
immigrants granted amnesty in the city were from Mexico.

City officials estimate that roughly 400,000 of the city's 2.5 million immigrant
residents are here illegally.

Upheavals in the former Soviet Union helped propel 66,000 people to the city,
most of them refugees and 75 percent of them bound for Brooklyn. Average annual
immigration from the Ukraine, Russia, Belarus and other nations rose tenfold
from the 1980's to the 1990's, catapulting the former Soviet Union from the 12th
largest sender of immigrants to the city in the 1980's to the second largest in
the 1990's.

Immigration from the Hispanic Caribbean rose in the 1990's, but declined from
Jamaica and Haiti. The Dominican Republic alone accounted for 1 out of every 5
immigrants to the city. Annual flows of Dominicans rose more than 50 percent
from the 1980's to the 1990's.

Despite the ups and downs, the city continued to attract disproportionately
large numbers of immigrants from the Caribbean and South America compared with
the rest of the country, which was more likely to get immigrants from Asia and
Mexico.

Almost two-thirds of the new immigrants to the city in the 1990's headed for
Brooklyn and Queens, though two of the three neighborhoods that attracted the
most immigrants, Washington Heights (a magnet for Dominicans) and Chinatown (a
magnet for Chinese), were in Manhattan. The third neighborhood was
Gravesend-Homecrest in Brooklyn, a destination for people from the former Soviet
Union.

The demographic impact of the immigrants on city life is magnified by their
relatively high birth rates, city planners said. Because the immigrants are
younger and more fertile on average than native-born residents, particularly the
Dominicans, they are rapidly creating a large second generation.

In 1990, 29 percent of the women in the city were foreign born, but they had 43
percent of the children.

City researchers discovered in a 1993 survey of households that 33 percent of
the city's residents were immigrants and that an additional 20 percent were
their children -- and together they made up a majority of the city's population.


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map/Diagram: "OVERVIEW: Where They Came From and Went To"
Of the 563,000 legal immigrants who poured into New York from 1990 to 1994, the
largest groups by far were Dominicans, Chinese and Russians. Map shows the top
three neighborhoods where they tended to settle. (Source: Department of City
Planning)(pg. B6)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 10, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Mayor Adds Some Star Power To His Immigration Campaign

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 659 words


Last October, when Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced the formation of a
coalition to make Americans more aware of the virtues of immigration, it was at
a sparsely attended news conference in a Harvard University basement in
Cambridge, Mass.

Yesterday, as the Mayor announced he was putting together an expanded group to
do the same thing, he chose to do so in a far more elaborate and politically
resonant setting. Surrounded by the history of Ellis Island, along with several
hundred real-life immigrants and elderly people brought in from city-run
centers, he once again dispatched 25 celebrities and business leaders to lobby
Congress and the nation about immigration's benefits.

The coalition includes the musicians Isaac Stern, Carlos Santana, Itzhak
Perlman, Teresa Stratas and Zubin Mehta; the authors Oscar Hijuelos and Frank
McCourt; the film directors Ang Lee and Milos Forman, and the business leaders
Preston Robert Tisch, William Fugazy and Alan Greenberg. In addition, 63 groups
that deal with ethnic and immigration issues responded to the Mayor's request to
sign up.

The members of the group have agreed to lobby Congress and issue public
statements emphasizing the positive contributions that immigrants make. Only a
handful of the coalition members were actually present yesterday, but none are
likely to speak louder than Mr. Giuliani himself in a role that he has taken on
with particular gusto.

It is no accident that Angelica O. Tang, the Mayor's director of immigrant
affairs, introduced her boss yesterday as "our nation's most tenacious champion
for immigration and the best friend to the immigrant community." For months,
since the passage last fall of the Federal welfare law that restricts some
benefits for immigrants, the Mayor has traveled nationwide speaking out against
the law.

No other issue he has taken up has done more to soften his often imperious
image, particularly among the liberal city voters he will need to court in his
re-election campaign. It has also won him national attention.

Yesterday, his planning department released a major study showing that
immigration had grown 32 percent in the 1990's over the previous decade, a
report that landed on the front pages of three of the city's four newspapers. An
Op-Ed article he wrote, "Keep America's Doors Open," was published in The Wall
Street Journal yesterday.

And on Ellis Island yesterday, standing in front of a huge globe with lights
that showed past migration patterns, he said his coalition planned to sponsor an
immigration conference in New York this spring, which will include officials
from Texas, Florida and California, the three other states with the greatest
number of newcomers.

"The coalition's first order of business has to be to build a very, very strong
case for the positive contributions of immigration, and to show Congress and the
President the mistakes that have been made in both the welfare bill and in the
immigration bill," Mayor Giuliani said. "And they're serious mistakes, practical
ones, which really have to do with the heart and soul of America."

The Giuliani administration has already gone to court to overturn some aspects
of the new laws, including one change that allows city employees to turn in
illegal immigrants who seek services like police protection, hospital care and
public education. The provisions overturn a New York City executive order that
forbids city employees to report illegal immigrants.

Members of the coalition say they have not been told precisely what their roles
will be, but expect to give speeches, write articles and lobby lawmakers.

Mr. McCourt, the Irish-American author of the best-selling memoir "Angela's
Ashes," said he agreed wholeheartedly with the Mayor that the effect of the new
legislation would be to cut off America's lifeline by imposing new restrictions
on immigrants, and he praised the Mayor for raising his voice on the subject.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 10, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

NYC;
Ellis Island Still Vexes Its Neighbors

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words


RUDOLPH W. GIULIANI went to Ellis Island yesterday for a bit of ceremony and
patter on immigration. His visit came none too soon. The next time he wants to
ferry out there -- and he talks about organizing a pro-immigration conference on
the island in early spring -- he may first have to clear it with Trenton.

By then, a special master appointed by the United States Supreme Court is
expected to have settled an interstate dispute over who controls the island: New
Jersey, which brought a lawsuit laying claim to 24 acres of landfill added to an
original three acres of rock, or New York, which says that history is on its
side, that the beacon for all those huddled masses was the skyline of Manhattan
and not the packing plants of Secaucus.

Unfortunately for those who think of Ellis Island, N.J., as an oxymoron, some
New York officials are not bubbling with optimism that the special master, Paul
R. Verkuil, will rule their way. In fact, suggestions have been made for both
parties to sit down soon and see if they can work out a compromise. On the face
of it, that idea seems to make more sense than to keep on having the two states
pay for Federal court costs that already exceed half a million dollars. You have
to sell a lot of those foam-rubber Statue of Liberty headbands at the Ellis
Island gift shop to earn enough sales-tax revenue to cover the fees.

MR. GIULIANI, who presented a report showing that immigrants continue to
transform the city, did not make a direct pitch yesterday for New York's primacy
on the island. He didn't have to. It was easy to read between the lines that,
like most New Yorkers, he views New Jersey as embarked on a land grab now that
the restored immigration center is a money-making tourist mecca.

"This is a great, great treasure for New York City and for the nation," the
Mayor said. "It's something that enhances New York City. It's one of our great
tourist attractions, and it's one of our great education institutions." Do you
see in there any mention of New Jersey?

Even forgetting the Supreme Court, Washington has created other concerns on the
immigration front. The 1996 welfare law strips legal immigrants of benefits like
food stamps, thrusting new responsibilities onto the states. How unfair, Mr.
Giuliani said, for the Federal Government to take taxes from these people and
deny them help when they need it!

Unfair, and expensive for the rest of us. "In a city like New York, you know
that they are not going to be turned away," he said. "New York is too generous."

One bit of good news, he added, is that the White House is considering changes
in the welfare law. Then again, he saw little hope that immigrant-bashing has
gone out of style in Congress.

If anything, some at City Hall fear that worse lies ahead. The Mayor did not
mention it, but other officials sense that key Congressional Republicans are
hostile to proposed census procedures that should work to New York's advantage.

THE Census Bureau plans a new system to calculate the United States population
in 2000. In effect acknowledging that it has never been able to knock on every
door (if for no other reason than that many Americans have no door), the bureau
wants to rely in part on proven methods of statistical probability.

City planners are convinced the innovation will produce a more accurate -- and,
to cut to the chase, a higher -- census count here. More people can mean more
Federal funds. But local officials detect that the new Congress will take a hard
line against sampling in any form, including some Democrats but more
conspicuously Republicans worried that their party would suffer from improved
counts of minority groups, immigrants and the homeless in big cities.

In New York, the Republican Mayor sides with the Census Bureau. Indeed, many
would say that Mr. Giuliani, a grandson of Italian immigrants, is at his best
when he speaks forcefully in behalf of the city's foreigners (other than
diplomats from Russia and Belarus). Sure, it makes political sense. But it is
hard not to notice that the Mayor, who does not often reach oratorical heights,
comes awfully close when discussing America's debt to its immigrants.

"The people who came through Ellis Island had the same look in their eyes as the
people that now come in through Kennedy airport," he said yesterday. "They did
the same wonderful things for us that the new people are going to do for us. We
can't be afraid of people. If we're afraid of people, then we become a nation
and a city in decline."

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 12, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

For Half a Million, This is Still the New World

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 298 words


Mayor David N. Dinkins always talked about New York City as a "gorgeous mosaic"
of peoples and faiths. Last week, city demographers added a whole new panel of
tiles to the design with the release of a sweeping portrait of the 563,000 legal
immigrants who coursed into the city from 1990 to 1994.

They came from a United Nations of countries -- more than 150 in all, of which
the top 40 are ranked on this map. Some groups that were already settled in the
city -- Dominicans, Jamaicans, Guyanese, Haitians, Chinese -- added to their
ranks. The Irish, storied immigrants in an earlier era, got their foot back in
the door in the 1990's via a special federally legislated lottery that gave them
visas.

As in the past, the largest single group came from the Caribbean, and from the
Dominican Republic in particular. But tens of thousands of refugees from Russia,
Ukraine, Uzbekistan and other nations of the former Soviet Union poured into
Brooklyn.

And people from Senegal, Ghana, Nigeria, Egypt, Guatemala and Bangladesh planted
themselves here in a phenomenon that Jospeh J. Salvo, director of the City
Planning Department's population division, described as "seed immigration." They
will start with small numbers, but as their spouses and children join them here
they will gradually build communities of their own in a new homeland.

The report, "The Newest New Yorkers," was produced by the Planning Department
and discussed at three press conferences last week: one for the big daily
newspapers, one for the ethnic and neighborhood press and a third at Ellis
Island. Sandwiched between the other two, it was presided over by Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani, who has lustily taken on the role of the immigrants' champion in a
sometimes xenophobic time.   CELIA W. DUGGER

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of the world showing the location of the forty countries that
contributed the most immigrants to New York City. (Source: New York Department
of City Planning)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 17, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Effort to Reduce Legal Immigration Loses Impetus in Congress

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16


Soon after President Clinton enacted broad new restrictions in September against
illegal immigration, many conservative lawmakers vowed to make reductions in
legal immigration a chief goal in 1997.

But four months later, senior House and Senate members say, that effort has
stalled, and Congress will probably not reduce the number of foreigners
immigrating here legally -- a figure that approaches one million a year --
anytime soon.

"I really don't see much prospects of more action in that area, at least not
this year," Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority leader, told the
United States Chamber of Commerce last week.

Representative Lamar Smith, the Texas Republican who wrote the
illegal-immigration bill in the House last year and tried unsuccessfully to
include a 30 percent reduction in legal immigration after five years, said in an
interview, "Unlike last year, I'm not planning to introduce a major bill any
time soon."

Three factors caused the turnabout, Republican and Democratic strategists said.
First, declining Republican support among Hispanic and Asian-American voters in
November has caused many Republicans to voice fears that their party is becoming
viewed as anti-immigrant.

Second, one of the Senate's main advocates of reducing legal immigration, Alan
K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, retired. He was replaced last Friday as head
of the Senate immigration panel by a staunch supporter of legal immigration,
Spencer Abraham, Republican of Michigan.

Mr. Abraham outlined his priorities on Tuesday in a speech at the Cypress
Semiconductor Corporation in San Jose, Calif., which, like many other Silicon
Valley companies, relies heavily on foreign-born engineers.

"Legal immigration has been a positive thing and something we must continue to
defend," Mr. Abraham, a grandson of Lebanese immigrants, said. "Those who wish
to see wholesale reductions are headed in the wrong course."

Mr. Abraham also said it made little sense to have a single agency, the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, responsible for keeping out illegal
immigrants and, at the same time, letting in legal immigrants and refugees. He
suggesting splitting the I.N.S. into two agencies and shifting many of its
border-enforcement duties to the Customs Service.

The final factor is that the enactment of the immigration bill and the welfare
bill, which sharply restricts Federal benefits to legal immigrants, seems to
have spent, at least for the present, the public anger against immigrants and
allowed lawmakers and policy makers to focus on carrying out the complicated new
laws.

"It's pretty clear," Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, said in a telephone
interview, "that the big legislative issue was accomplished last year and that
the primary work this year will be oversight."

Even as supporters of deeper cutbacks in legal immigration retrench on the
legislative front, they are preparing a series of hearings to insure that the
Clinton Administration carries out the new immigration law as Congress intended.

"We're dealing with sweeping new legislation," the Immigration and
Naturalization Commissioner, Doris M. Meissner, told reporters on Tuesday as she
announced details of her agency's $3.1 billion budget for the 1997 fiscal year,
up from $1.5 billion in 1993.

The budget this year finances 1,000 new Border Patrol agents, Mrs. Meissner
said, including 251 in Texas, 237 in California and 166 in Arizona.

Mr. Clinton has promised to work with Congress to repeal some of the
restrictions on benefits for legal immigrants. But Mr. Lott and other
Republicans have signaled no willingness to broker any changes in the welfare
law.

Potentially more troublesome for the White House is Congress's intent to
investigate the Administration's handling of several immigration issues.
Republicans have contended that in the Administration's rush to naturalize as
many immigrants as possible before Election Day 1996, the I.N.S. allowed
convicted criminals to become citizens.

Representative Robert K. Dornan, the California Republican who narrowly lost to
Loretta Sanchez, a Democrat, is asserting that some of those illegal voters cost
him re-election. The Orange County District Attorney is investigating the
matter.

Republicans are also looking into accusations that the immigration service
falsified figures to make its enforcement operation along the California-Mexico
border look more effective than it is. In addition, they want to see what
punishment the Justice Department gives to 13 officials who the department's
Inspector General concluded deceived a Congressional delegation that visited the
agency's operations in Miami.

"The I.N.S. has a history of being mismanaged," said Mr. Smith, who as head of
the House immigration panel will most likely be the Administration's chief
inquisitor this year.

Mr. Smith added that he would hold hearings on changes in legal immigration, but
perhaps not until next year, and with the purpose of reaching a consensus.

That may be difficult. Unlike restricting illegal immigration, which had
bipartisan support, the campaign to cut legal immigration faced stiff resistance
from an unusual alliance of high-technology companies, grass-roots immigration
groups and civil-liberties organizations.

Republicans and Democrats were on both sides of the issue, but Republicans were
more deeply divided. Critics like Mr. Smith and Mr. Kyl say the current system
imposes unfair burdens on local governments and depresses wages in some fields.
Supporters of the current immigration levels like Mr. Abraham argue that
immigrants do not sponge off society, but work hard and spur job growth.

Congress last year split the immigration bill in two parts, one dealing with
legal immigrants and the other with illegal immigrants. A practical effect was
to doom the changes in legal immigration, which could not survive politically on
their own.

Advocates of lower legal immigration vowed to fight on this year, but their
difficult struggle was made even harder when Mr. Abraham was named last week to
head the Senate immigration panel.

"We've made no secret of our displeasure with Abraham," said Dan Stein,
executive director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which
supports lower levels of legal immigration. "He's basically for sale to these
high-tech companies that want to import cheap programmers and engineers."

Rosemary Jenks, director of policy analysis for the Center for Immigration
Studies, a Washington research group that supports lower levels of legal
immigration, said in an interview: "Certainly, we would have preferred that Jon
Kyl had taken the position. He has a better understanding of the reality of
immigration in the 1990's."

Outside Cypress Semiconductor on Tuesday, more than 50 supporters of cuts in
legal immigration held a rally to protest Mr. Abraham's selection.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 19, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Tower of Babel, in Wood Pulp;
Dateline New York, 1997: A Week in the Life of the Ethnic Media

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 646 words


In Elmhurst, Queens, home to people from more than 100 countries, it is the
newsstands that most reflect the lush profusion of immigrant life in New York
City, circa 1997.

At Pronto Grocery, one of the largest newsstands in the neighborhood, yards of
crisply folded newspapers in Polish, Arabic, Sanskrit, Gujarati, Spanish,
Korean, Chinese, Greek and Bengali are lined up as enticingly as the candies on
a nearby rack.

Kamlesh Gandhi, the longtime proprietor of Pronto who is himself an Indian
immigrant, sells far more dailies in Chinese and Korean than in English.
Broadsheets covered with Chinese and Korean characters have the choicest spot at
the cash register.

"No matter what the stock market does, I never sell more than 15 Wall Street
Journals," Mr. Gandhi said.

As more than half a million immigrants have moved to the city in the 1990's, the
number of foreign-language newspapers has soared. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's
immigrant affairs office does not communicate with all the ethnic media, but
even so, it deals with a staggering number: 143 newspapers and magazines, 22
television stations and 12 radio stations, in more than 30 languages.

The proliferation of ethnic press outlets has produced a rambunctious, intensely
competitive war for news, readers and advertisers that is going on almost
completely outside the ken of those of the city's residents who speak only
English.

"It is a time of phenomenal energy and growth for the foreign-language media,"
said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York
University. "The foreign language press is flourishing while the tabloids are
floundering."

A week's worth of reading, watching and listening to the ethnic news media that
serve a handful of the city's many immigrant groups found their preoccupations
to be quite different from those of the mainstream press.

Novoye Russkoye Slovo (New Russian Word) gave front-page coverage to a flap over
parking tickets issued to the Russian Ambassador's limousine. India Abroad and
News India-Times were fascinated by accusations that a former Pakistani cricket
star running for prime minister had had a "love child." And World Journal, a
Chinese daily, reported that the Taiwanese Vice President would have an audience
with the Pope.

Reaching the third of the city that is made up of first-generation immigrants
has become more complex than ever as the number of ethnic communities in the
city has grown. The New York office of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has programmed its fax machine to automatically send press releases to
many ethnic press outlets.

"There are six Korean newspapers alone in this new program," said an I.N.S.
spokesman, Franco Pollini.

And the union that represents 25,000 garment workers in Chinatown has hired a
person just to translate stories from the Chinese newspapers. Union officials
regularly notify editors of the Chinese dailies when, for example, they picket a
contractor who has failed to pay his workers, in hopes of shaming him into
paying up.

"It doesn't do us any good to have that story in The New York Times," said
Muzaffar Chishti, director of the immigration project at the Union of
Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.

Until 1990, there was only one paper, Probashi, published in Bengali to serve
Bangladeshi readers. Now there are six and the Pronto newsstand, at 74th Street
and Roosevelt Avenue on the border of Jackson Heights, carries them all.

Sayeed Ur Rabb, the editor of one of the six, Thikana, said his was a shoestring
operation. He himself translates the press releases, writes the editorials,
sells the advertising and delivers the paper to newsstands.

He is regretful, but philosophical about the competition. "This is unfortunate,"
he said. "The market is not too big. But there is the freedom to do it. And I
cannot stop them."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Uzbek Newsstand at East Third Street and Brighton Beach
Avenue in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn, sells 16 Russian-language newspapers to the
area's many immigrants. The papers carry New York and Russian news, sports and
advertisements. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

Chart: "Read All About (In Cyrillic)" -- Novoye Ruskoye Slovo, Tuesday, Jan. 14,
1997

Plugs for three strong stories inside the paper. Left: Arrests and repression in
Russia's Bashkiria region. Middle: On the aging of a once daringly witty quiz
show on Russian television. Right: Reminiscences by daughters of a long-dead
Russian Jewish stage actor.

Foreign news summaries culled from the Associated Press, ITAR-TSS and "our
special correspondents." Datelines from Colombo, Riga, Baku, Athens, London and
Minsk.

"The Supreme Court Considers a Date for Examining Suit Against the President." A
straight-forward report about developments in Paula Jones's sexual harrassment
case against President Clinton.

"New Letter Bombs Now at the U.N." A story that made front-page news in
mainstream papers, too.

"Vladimir Zelenin Tells How He and His Sister Murdered Yakov Gluzman." On the
trial in White Plains of two Russian immigrants in the killing of Yakov Gluzman,
the husband of a defendant.

"Senator D'Amato and the Jewish Congress Accuse Switzerland." On Mr. D'Amato's
Zurich press conference on assets of Jews hidden in Swiss banks during the
Holocaust. Many Russian immigrants are Jewish.

"Incident With Diplomats Develops Into an International Scandal." Two stories
from Monday's paper: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani compares the uproar over a
conflict between police officers and a Russian and Belorussion diplomat to the
cold war, and a witness backs the diplomats.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 19, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Tower of Babel, in Wood Pulp;
Serving Immigrants Still Linked to Haiti

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 398 words


Last week, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani stood near the Statue of Liberty,
surrounded by scores of immigrants as he vowed to fight the latest Congressional
assault on them. A few days later, the city's Department of Planning released
statistics on the city's most recent immigrants: from 1990 to 1994, Haitians
were the ninth-largest group.

First-generation immigrants make up the bulk of the estimated 500,000 Haitians
in the New York region. So preoccupied are they with affairs back home that even
those two immigrant-related stories got only a brief mention in the Haitian
community's Creole- and French-language newspapers and radio and television
programs.

Instead, Haitian media covered street protests, alleged political corruption and
preparations for the upcoming Carnival, all in Haiti.  Radio Soleil, a 24-hour
cable station in Flatbush, Brooklyn, was peppered with freewheeling discussions,
call-in shows, news and gossip, all centered on Haiti.

Haiti Observateur, a Brooklyn weekly, did publish a front-page article with a
local angle: a short profile of a New York physician who was part of a
delegation of physicians on a trip to Vietnam, accompanied by a photo of the
doctor with two attractive Vietnamese women.

"It is married in our history -- culture and nationalism," said Tatiana Wah,
chairwoman of the Haitian American Alliance, a community group. "Many Haitians
feel that we would not go much further in the United States. To them it's easier
to be somebody in your own home. So they turn their attention to events there."

Jean-Bertrand Aristide is no longer the President of Haiti, but he is still the
target of unflattering caricatures and articles in Haiti Observateur, which has
always viewed Mr. Aristide as a "dictator of the left." A headline over last
week's main article read, "The international community sees Aristide's hands in
a vast project to break democracy." No details were provided to support that
claim.

The paper, which began in 1971, was a defiant and single voice of opposition to
the brutal dictatorship of Jean-Claude Duvalier. After Mr. Duvalier fled to
exile in France, the paper changed its course and became more conservative. But
Raymond A. Joseph, Haiti Observateur's co-publisher, says that his paper is
simply staying the course of its crusading ways, publishing articles that others
won't.   GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 19, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A Tower of Babel, in Wood Pulp;
Ancient Hibernian and an Upstart Serve the Irish of 'the Next Parish'

BYLINE: By MARY JO MURPHY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 429 words


The Irish Echo and The Irish Voice scooped each other in last week's issues --
not a rare occurrence since the competing New York-based tabloids have seven
days to cull events on both Atlantic shores to decide what is front-page news.

The Echo, established in 1928, was once the ancient Hibernian to The Voice's new
immigrant, but the distinctions have blurred in the 10 years since The Voice was
founded: in another week the two papers might as easily have chosen to play up
the same news.

Last week in The Voice, however, splashy headlines and pictures about the
unsolved underworld murder in Dublin last summer of the Irish journalist
Veronica Guerin took up most of Page 1, while The Echo led with the news that
Gerry Adams, president of the political party Sinn Fein, would not seek a visa
to promote his autobiography in the United States but instead try to regain his
seat in Parliament in the coming British elections.

Perhaps The Voice shows its green knickers a bit more than the staid Echo, but
both offer a mix of advice for the immigrant and the lovelorn, arts reviews,
sports, county roundups that make readers feel they are in "the next parish"
from Ireland, and, of course, a stout measure of Irish politics.

The Echo still has a good many readers among established immigrants and
Irish-Americans, but it also has at last found the pulse of the new immigrants,
whose special needs The Voice was founded to address.

Both papers play up Irish angles of local news. Last week, The Voice featured
the case of the Bronx police officer charged with murdering a Derry immigrant
last year. The Echo gave better play to a report on resistance to plans by the
New England Patriots to build a football stadium in South Boston, home to many
long-established Irish immigrants.

And the pages of both are filled with news and commentary about "the Troubles."
The two may be "on the one road, sharing the one load," as an old rebel song
goes, but there are differences in their approaches to Irish nationalism. The
Voice has Mr. Adams, a man many believe to be the mouthpiece of the Irish
Republican Army, as an occasional columnist. And its publisher, Niall O'Dowd,
who like The Echo's senior editor Ray O'Hanlon is a former Dubliner, was among a
group of Irish-American businessmen who are credited with helping to broker the
long (but now lifted) I.R.A. cease-fire. The Echo has as a counterpoint Jack
Holland, whose byline is on the front-page article about Mr. Adams and whose
column frequently denounces the man and his methods.   MARY JO MURPHY

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 23, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

The 99 American Dream;
Pakistani Immigrants Find a Niche in Discount Stores

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Business Page

LENGTH: 1416 words


The newest 99 World store had been in business only half an hour. But already
the line of customers in the eastern Bronx shop snaked back 75 feet from the
cash register, past the hair extensions, the vanilla wafers and the witch hazel,
all selling for less than a dollar.

The store was immaculate, smelling of peach candles and fabric softener and
stuffed with orderly displays of merchandise -- 3,000 square feet of cheap
goods. But there were a few glitches: a clerk could not seem to attach the vinyl
"Grand Opening" sign to the awning outside and one of the two cash registers was
broken.

And then the telephone began to ring. "Hello, 99!" the store manager, Shoaib
Rangoonwala, shouted frantically into the phone, as he rang up a sale of
aluminum foil, two boxes for 99 cents. He relaxed when he spotted his cousin,
from the 99 World in Harlem, arriving with a replacement cash register.

Mr. Rangoonwala, a Pakistani immigrant, recently gave up taxi driving to manage
99 World's seventh store, which opened two weeks ago at 1611 Westchester Avenue,
and to join his friends and relatives in their growing enterprise. As the newest
99 World opened, another extended Pakistani family was plotting the expansion of
99 Dream, with a 10th store in the city scheduled to open in a few weeks.

But move over Dream, move over World: 99 City, another Pakistani-owned discount
chain, is about to open its 19th and 20th stores.

Seizing on the "one price" mania that burst onto the retailing scene in the
early 1990's, the three extended families have opened 34 stores, most in the
city, a few in New Jersey, in the last five years, adding six to their network
in the last two months.

"I looked around and I saw that everybody was doing the grocery store," said
Mohammed Aslam, one of about 10 owners of 99 Dream, who also drove a cab before
opening the first store five years ago. "I said, 'Let's go for something else.'
"

Buoyed by a surge of immigration to the city in the 1990's, newcomers are going
into business at a furious pace, city officials and urban researchers say,
creating new employment niches for themselves by bringing friends and relatives
with them. Although no exact figures are available, the emergence of new
concentrations in the immigrant work force is perhaps most striking in small
retailing, which has long served as a catalyst for ethnic mobility.

"New York still has an older type of retail structure because, for the most
part, it has been less dominated by large chains than other cities," said Roger
Waldinger, a professor of sociology at the University of California at Los
Angeles, who has studied employment patterns of New York's ethnic groups. "The
competitive environment is pretty favorable for the small entrepreneur, and one
of the effects of immigration is to kind of break up the market."

As the Italians and Jews who once dominated small retailing in New York have
moved into larger-scale endeavors, Greeks, Koreans, Chinese, Arabs, Israelis,
Dominicans, Russians and, increasingly, Pakistanis and other south Asians have
taken their places. Like their predecessors, clusters of those immigrants
embarked on new enterprises as they became established in the city, carving up
the retail market and creating ethnic enclaves.

That is happening now for the Pakistani immigrants, who number about 25,000 in
the city, although the estimate is considered low because it does not account
for illegal immigration or migration from other parts of the country.

It might be too early to conclude that the Pakistani proprietors have cornered
the New York City market on 99-cent stores, but they control what appears to be
the city's only multistore network of 99-cent discounters, which sell everything
from air fresheners to zwiebacks.

Statistics on the number of 99-cent stores, still a sliver of the city's retail
market, are not available. But city officials and retail analysts say one-price
stores, including those selling all items for less than $10, have spread through
New York in the last decade. They are particularly prevalent in low-income
neighborhoods, where the turnover of small businesses is high, rents are
relatively low and storefront vacancies abound.

"The stores are filling a huge gap in the inner city," said Mitchell Moss,
director of the urban research center at New York University.

Mr. Moss said the disappearance in the last two decades of hardware stores and
low-end department store chains like Alexander's and E. J. Korvette's from many
neighborhoods had created a demand for the eclectic discount stores. And he
suggested that the stores may be particularly attractive to New Yorkers.

"The 99-cent people rely on New Yorkers' willingness to buy anything at a
bargain," Mr. Moss said. Using the Yiddish term for junk, he added, "New York is
built on chozzerai."
 The one-price stores buy surplus merchandise from overstocked or bankrupt
manufacturers and wholesale retailers, and resell the goods for what typically
amounts to a profit of pennies on the dollar.

Large regional one-price chains like Dollar Tree Stores expanded rapidly in the
early 1990's, although they never moved into the New York City market. But the
larger regional and national chains have generally not done well, retail
analysts said. Because of overexpansion, competition from individual stores and
an inability to pay high rents at suburban malls, one of the six largest chains,
Everything's A Dollar, has gone out of business, and another, All For A Dollar,
has sought bankruptcy protection in the last two years, according to Discount
Store News, an industry trade publication.

In New York, the three Pakistani-owned chains, which have targeted working-class
neighborhoods in Manhattan, Queens, Brooklyn and the Bronx, are not franchised.
Typically, groups of friends and relatives contribute their savings to open a
store, several owners said.

The top occupations for Pakistani immigrants listed in the 1990 census were taxi
driver, truck driver and construction worker. While there is anecdotal evidence
that an increasing number of Pakistani immigrants are moving into retailing, the
trend is too recent to show up in official statistics.

Marine Midland Bank, which three years ago started a loan program to attract
Pakistani, Indian and Sri Lankan borrowers, reported that in the last six
months, loan applications made by small retailers had increased significantly in
that group. And Pakistanis themselves say they have observed that many of their
fellow immigrants, who have now worked in the city long enough to amass some
capital, are leaving cab driving and construction for other pursuits.

Describing a path typical of many immigrant entrepreneurs, Asghar Choudhri, an
accountant who lives in the Midwood section of Brooklyn, which has largest
concentration of Pakistani immigrants, and is chairman the Pakistani-American
Merchants Association of Coney Island Avenue said: "Usually two or three
brothers or cousins live together, work separately and save their money to open
a store together."

Then, as the businesses grow, the ethnic grapevine transmits word of
opportunity, immigrants recruit their friends and relatives and a niche begins
to form.

Mr. Aslam, the owner of 99 Dream, who now lives in New Jersey, came to New York
from the Pakistani city of Karachi in 1985, he said. Initially taking a job as a
gas station attendant, he heard from his friends that there was work in the taxi
business. He met other Pakistanis interested in breaking into retail and
contributed his earnings -- and money from the sale of his house in Karachi --
to an investment pool.

He said that 10 to 15 friends and relatives, most of them originally from
Karachi, each contributed $1,500 to $2,000 to the discount store pool. The
initial investment required to open a store, he said, is $50,000 to $60,000.

Pakistani proprietors from all three 99-cent chains said they planned to expand
in the coming months. But some owners said they were worried that the New York
City retail market, which is undergoing a radical change as superstores like
Kmart, Price CostCo and Home Depot move in, would not support many more 99-cent
stores.

"We prefer to work for ourselves," Mr. Aslam, of 99 Dream, said. "But I am a
little tired. There is a lot of competition, a lot of expenses."

He paused for a few minutes to think, and then added: "Ninety-nine is O.K. for
now. But there may be something else for us out there."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Shoaib Rangoonwala, manager of the new 99 World in the Bronx.
(Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B8); When a 99 World store opened on
Jan. 10 in the Bronx, Ada Torres and her son Derrell, 2, were among the first
shoppers. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

Chart/Photos: "One Price Fits All" shows some of the items available Monday at
the 99 City that opened last month in East New York.

Plastic toy tank

Bay leaves, 1/2 oz. container

Soap, two bath-size bars for 99

Breakfast cereal, 10 oz. box

Ceramic soap dispenser

Irregular masking tape, 3/4" by 60 yards

(Naum/Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. B1)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 26, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST VILLAGE;
Pizza Job Sustained a Dream

BYLINE: By ANDREA KANNAPELL

SECTION: Section 13; Page 7; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 436 words


Eleven A.M. on a Monday, at Ray's Pizza on Third Avenue and St. Marks Place,
seemed like an odd place and an odd time for a celebration.

But that's what it was. Zoran Bandovic, a dark-eyed 40-year-old with an unruly
graying brush cut, was sipping a Sam Adams. Danilo, 7 1/2, and Ivan, 4, were
happily eating chocolate cake. Their mother, Jela, was drinking juice.

They had just come from the downtown offices of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, where they had been given approval for green cards. Mr.
Bandovic pulled out his passport to show it, proudly.

There was even a good reason to celebrate at that very spot -- a generally
unremarkable coffee, pizza and bagel place awash in East Village anonymity.

"I came to this country like a parachute," he said, dropping his right hand
through the air onto the table. His wife and sons came later. "When I came,
three years ago, my first job was at this pizzeria. I wanted to show them where
I started." A flash of humor crossed his face. "I was a doctor from Yugoslavia."

He made a few friends. One, he said, told him not to stay in the East Village.
Too strange. "But I find it very interesting," he said. "The people are
friendly, open. The people are nice."

Jela interrupted with a wifely jab: "Nice girls!" He grinned.

After two weeks at Ray's, he said, he heard about Veselka, the Ukrainian diner
on Second Avenue. "I went to work there, making sandwiches behind the counter.
We were four doctors working over there, three from Poland!"

And he began volunteering at St. Luke's Hospital, to get closer to the world he
left. In four months, he was offered a job in the pathology department. Now, he
commutes from Astoria and studies for the grueling exam he will take in June to
earn the right to be a doctor in America.

He left Belgrade, the Serbian capital, he said, mainly for economic reasons. He
and his wife were both doctors, at a top university hospital, but at the time,
1994, inflation was so high that his salary effectively shrank to less than $10
a month.

But he did not leave until after he got word that he was being drafted. "I'm a
Serb," he said. "She's Croatian, from Herzegovina," pointing to Jela. "Because
of the war in Bosnia, I had been mobilized. Or, there was an attempt to moblize
me. I was being sent to kill her parents, or have them kill me!"

He forgot his beer as he reminisced. Danilo and Ivan continued eating cake. Jela
was quiet.

"The last day I was in Belgrade, they came to pick me up," he said. "But I was
out taking the kids for a walk. So I was absent. God helped."   ANDREA KANNAPELL


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Zoran and Jela Bandovic revisit Ray's with sons Danilo, left,
and Ivan. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
E Pluribus And All That

BYLINE: By A.M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words


People are forever telling journalists to concentrate on good news, instead of
the gloomy stuff. Medical opinion is divided.

Some doctors say that smile-reporting would ease stress in journalists and make
them live longer, to the enduring blessing of the Republic. My own doctor says
the strain of pretending the world is peachy would carry me off earlier, smile
frozen through eternity.

So taking no chances, here is excellent news about a subject essential to
American national life and growth, and as precaution, some suitably depressing
news.

Those who know that immigration strengthened America and made it, if not always
a beacon to the world, at least a lamp had a lot to be stressed about. A
full-blown anti-immigrant campaign, born of mean-minded politics and suckled by
sour intellectualism, was nastying up the country.

But the best of combinations -- virtue, self-interest and good luck -- prevented
destruction of idealism and pragmatism about immigration.

Enough Americans decided that they did not want to close the doors that wavering
members of Congress were persuaded to vote against the attempt to cut
immigration by 30 percent. That drives anti-immigrants to apoplexy, another
good-news bulletin.

U.S. businessmen said they would be crippled -- from executives who depend on
low-wage labor to entrepreneurs who need the talents of foreign high-tech
specialists.

Luck: The wisecracking but not always amusing Senator from Wyoming, Alan
Simpson, no friend of immigration, retired. He was replaced as head of the
Senate subcommittee on immigration by Spencer Abraham of Michigan. Senator
Abraham, grandson of Lebanese immigrants, sees no contradiction between being a
conservative Republican and keeping America open-minded and open-hearted to
immigrant talent and muscle, any more than did Ronald Reagan.

Enough sunshine. In last year's welfare bill, Congress withdrew help from legal
immigrants who work and pay taxes here. This was a dastardly thing to do,
creating a foreign-born subclass among legal residents.

Suddenly American governors are knuckling their sleepy eyes and brains. If
Washington does not help needy immigrants, the states will have to do it! Change
that! It will be harder to do now than to have blocked it.

And try smiling at this, doctor: Carey Goldberg of The New York Times, analyzing
census data, reports that Hispanics are the only ethnic group whose incomes went
down in 1995. Hispanics also have the highest high school dropout rates.

Prof. Peter D. Salins of Hunter College in New York has written one of the most
valuable books on immigration I've read -- "Assimilation, American Style" (Basic
Books). He's strong for immigration, but based on integration into American
culture and society, not separatism, not bilingualism as a political goal and
instrument of power, not the "ethnic federalism" of every group demanding its
own separate slice of the political pie.

Much of the problem for Hispanics, he writes, rests with activists trying to
"enshrine" bilingual education, job preference, gerrymandered Hispanic districts
as rights by government policy -- "ethnic identity rather than national
identity" -- and the foundations supporting them.

Anti-immigrants will use the material in The Times as a weapon, even though the
statistics are for immigrants and U.S.-born Hispanics. And pro-immigration
people, Hispanic and otherwise, will be defensive, with some justification.

Mexicans, the bulk of Hispanic immigrants, have been jerked around, more than
any other immigrant group, on the American yo-yo. When business needed them to
work Western fields, they were practically shoveled into the U.S. When the
demand shrank it became "Mexicans who?" and "Mexicans out."

More information is needed about the Hispanic showing. I know, I know. But I
also know the great asset that the immigrants of an earlier day had --
Europeans, Asians and Hispanics too. They not only wanted integration,
assimilation, unity -- they longed for it, fought for it, would accept no
leaders who rejected that goal.

That's what it boils down to for most Americans -- immigration, yes;
multiculturalism, no. E pluribus and all that -- that is still the real good
news for America.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Ramadan Enters New York City School Life

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1278 words


As new immigrants and new converts swell the numbers of Muslims in New York
City, the rites of Ramadan, Islam's holiest period, have quietly seeped into the
culture of the city's schools.

At McKee High School on Staten Island, the basketball coach excuses one of his
players from practice at sunset every day so he can dive into his gym bag for a
snack. At a Brooklyn junior high school, a seventh grader with a Mickey Mouse
ring sits patiently in the cafeteria every afternoon and watches her classmates
noisily dig into platters of tuna sandwiches and applesauce.

And at schools across the city, nurses report an increase in the number of
students treated for dizziness and stomachaches, and teachers say they notice
some students acting up and others who seem calmer and more reflective.

Since Jan. 10, when Ramadan began, thousands of teen-agers from Parkchester to
Bay Ridge, like Muslim youths across the country, have been fasting from dawn to
dusk, quietly inserting into their daily school routines their annual ritual of
self-restraint. Ramadan ends Saturday night, when a new moon appears in the sky
and Muslims worldwide celebrate the Id al-Fitr feast on Sunday.

"It's just become a part of our school year," said Hector Rivera, the principal
of Middle School 136 in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, where a smattering of Muslim
youngsters have been fasting. "We just go through it."

"It seems a very meditative kind of holiday," he observed, and then wondered
aloud what school would be like if every student fasted: junior high, he said
with a laugh, would be a whole new experience.

For Liela and Shareefa Rahman, Palestinian-American sisters at Mr. Rivera's
school, passing up lunch is generally no big deal. Why?

They answered in unison: "It's school food!"

Fasting has been more challenging for Ahmed Zayed, 13, an Egyptian immigrant who
is spending his first Ramadan in this country. The other morning, Ahmed shuffled
around the back of the cafeteria at Intermediate School 235 and rubbed his
stomach. "When I see others eating, it's hard," he said, noting that in Egypt,
hardly anyone would be eating during Ramadan. "I go to the back, so I don't see
any food."

There are nearly half a million Muslims in the city, but because the Board of
Education does not keep files on children's religion, no one in the system knows
how many are of school age and observe Ramadan. The board recognized the first
and last days of Ramadan as holy days a couple of years ago and now allows
children to take the days off.

The Ramadan fast, a central tenet of Islam, is intended to engender a sense of
empathy with the hungry. In the United States, some Muslims also see it as a
rare withdrawal from consumerism. So during Ramadan -- the month when the Koran
is believed to have been revealed -- every Muslim, once arrived at puberty, is
required to refrain from eating and drinking -- even water -- during daylight
hours. Exempted from the fast are the sick and the elderly, pregnant and
menstruating women, and young children. Those in elementary school rarely fast,
but once students enter junior high school, the practice becomes more common.

Islam is said to be the fastest-growing faith in the United States: its
adherents speak a variety of languages and come from places as diverse as
Bedford-Stuyvesant, Bangladesh and the West Bank. There are large Muslim
communities in Newark and Jersey City, the Los Angeles metropolitan area,
Chicago and Detroit, according to the Muslim Public Affairs Council, an advocacy
group based in Los Angeles.

But uniting all Muslims in this country, experts say, is Ramadan, which is
increasingly regarded as their most important act of faith. "It has become a
symbol of what it means to be a Muslim," said Yvonne Haddad, a historian who
edited "Muslim Communities of North America" (SUNY Press, 1994).

In New York City schools with sizable Muslim populations, educators are
increasingly trying to understand and explain Ramadan's significance to the
larger student body: At John Jay High School in Park Slope, school officials
announced the beginning of Ramadan over the loudspeakers last month. At Fort
Hamilton High School in Brooklyn, the principal, Alice Farkouh, who is an
Arab-American Christian, also allows students to leave early for Friday
afternoon prayers.

But many more schools are like Mr. Rivera's M.S. 136, where about 30 of the 936
students are Muslim. Most of them are Palestinians who blend in with the mostly
Hispanic student body -- except, that is, during Ramadan. During these four
weeks, Liela, 12, and Shareefa, 13, are among the small group of Muslim students
who spend their lunch break in a corner of the cafeteria or in the schoolyard
reading, if the weather is warm enough.

This is the first year the girls have seriously fasted. So far, they have
slipped up only once, on a school trip to "Pocahontas on Ice," when all the
children around them were munching on gooey nachos. Shareefa was salivating. "I
was like, 'Man, I want to eat some nachos,' " she recalled. "I got a craving."

Liela, the quieter and more serious of the two, tried to stop her, but Shareefa
could not resist. Nor, ultimately, could Liela. "I saw her eating next to me,
and I had to have some," she confessed.

The girls say they feel no different from anyone else at school. Shareefa said
with a shrug that Ramadan is simply "regular." In fact, they say, they have more
trouble with the stigma attached to being Muslim than with hunger from the fast.

Once, Shareefa said, a girl asked whether her parents were arranging her
marriage. More recently, another student predicted that she would shrivel up and
die before she finished fasting.

"That's not true!" snapped Shareefa. "They really don't know what they're
talking about."

Liela and Shareefa, who were both born in New York, do not know what it is to
observe Ramadan in a heavily Muslim area. They have never been to their mother's
home in Ramallah on the West Bank, nor their father's in Jordan. They know
nothing of living in a town where restaurants do not open until sundown, where
school is just half a day during the holy month, where there's no gym class and
no nachos.

Miles away, in a blinding blue cafeteria in Long Island City, Queens, Fahmida
Chowdhury, 13, and her friends mused in Bengali about a different kind of
Ramadan. The girls, students at I.S. 235, are all recent immigrants from
Bangladesh, and this is their first American Ramadan. In some ways, they said,
it is an easier passage here: In Bangladesh, they would be sitting at home for
half the month, getting bored and famished by midday.

Here, there is really only one thing that tempts Fahmida's taste buds: "Pizza,"
she confessed the other day, as the rest of the school went on with lunch -- a
thick slab of cheese pizza and a banana.

One thing about Ramadan this year is easier, they agreed: it falls in midwinter,
when the days are shorter. The Islamic lunar calendar is 10 days shorter than
the Gregorian, so Ramadan rotates by 10 days every year and becomes a real
challenge when the days are longer.

Some things are harder here, like the absence of their extended families, of
everyone on the block getting up at the crack of dawn, feasting together at the
end of the day, and staging huge parties to celebrate Ramadan's end. It is
customary to wear new clothes to the festivities, and the girls have all done
their shopping. But the parties just aren't the same in America.

"I already have new clothes for Eid," Farhana Afroze, 12, announced in Bengali.
"But where am I going to show off these new clothes? I mean, that's the main
thing!"

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Young immigrants from Bangladesh chat in their Queens school
lunchroom and try not to think about food. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 8, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Talks in Central America

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: MANAGUA, Nicaragua, Feb. 7


Central American presidents are to gather in Costa Rica in early May before a
planned visit to the region by President Clinton, officials said today.

The Nicaraguan President, Arnoldo Aleman, plans to join counterparts from
Honduras, Guatemala, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Belize and Panama to discuss the
expulsion of illegal immigrants from the United States and drug trafficking.

Mr. Clinton is to meet the leaders as part of a tour taking him to Mexico,
Brazil, Argentina and Barbados.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 9, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Editorial Notebook;
The Albright Syndrome

BYLINE: By PHILIP TAUBMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 705 words


Madeleine Albright must have known.

In the days since The Washington Post reported that the new Secretary of State
was born into a Jewish family, that has been the unspoken subtext of the
disclosure. How could someone as worldly and intelligent as Ms. Albright never
have inquired about her background, never have known that three grandparents
perished in Nazi concentration camps, never have guessed her parents' Catholic
faith might be adopted?

If letters sent in recent years by the Mayor of her father's hometown in the
Czech Republic reached her, why did she fail to respond to the detailed accounts
they provided about her family's Jewish background?

Running beneath these questions is the suspicion that she did know, or made a
conscious effort not to know, because she did not want to be seen as a Jew in a
world still uncomfortable with Jews.

We may never know how much Ms. Albright knew, or why she expressed surprise at
the Washington Post report if she already realized her past was not what it
seemed. But the Albright case is a reminder that family history was not always
explored or even welcomed by the immigrant families that fled poverty and
persecution in Europe this century.

Some of those immigrants and their first-generation American children turned
away from the past in a willful effort to escape it. My father, Howard Taubman,
was one. He was born in New York in 1907, the son of Eastern European Jews who
had arrived in America only a few years before. As best I can tell, he was eager
to put the past behind him.

I cite his example not to suggest a close comparison to Ms. Albright or her
family. Their experiences were quite unalike. One difference is that he was
raised as a Jew, and always seemed comfortable with his Jewish heritage even
though he did not attend synagogue. I still remember his determination not to
buy any German products or to take us to Germany for years after the war. He
finally relented in 1958, then stormed out of a hotel on the first day there,
outraged by an anti-Semitic comment by the innkeeper. I was 10 at the time, and
frightened by the angry confrontation.

I never quite understood his impulse to ignore the past, and in the last years
of my father's life I tried to recover the memories of a time he rarely shared
with me or my brother. He was more forthcoming in those twilight years, perhaps
no longer fearful that the poverty and limitations of his immigrant parents
would somehow hold him back. But even then I could get only the most fragmentary
glimpses of my European ancestors. To this day, I cannot say exactly where they
were born or how many of them died in the Nazi death camps.

My father made a living following his curiosity. As a journalist -- a music and
drama critic for this newspaper -- his interests were boundless. He followed
sports, politics and the stock market with the same fervor as the arts. But when
the conversation turned to his family and childhood, the light in his eye seemed
to dim.

It was another time and place, long ago, where Yiddish was spoken rather than
English, where his first job was delivering bread before dawn, and where
assimilation and education seemed the only path to prosperity. He was in a rush
to break away from an environment he found confining. The ancestral villages of
Eastern Europe were ancient history to him.

He supported his parents when he got a full-time job, he helped put his younger
brothers and sister through college and we visited my grandparents in Brooklyn
at least once a month when I was growing up. He was a loving and caring son, but
he seemed to keep that part of his life in a separate compartment. My
grandparents' apartment seemed like a foreign country to me.

I wish he had told me more, but I cannot condemn him for it. Had I been born
into a poor Jewish family on Manhattan's Lower East Side at the turn of the
century, I too might have seized the future and never looked back.

Perhaps Madeleine Albright felt the same tug forward, and when the truth about
her family began to appear she thought it too late and too painful to dismantle
the world her parents had constructedand she had preserved for herself and her
children.   PHILIP TAUBMAN

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 11, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Fosters Surge In Subway Use

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 896 words


Despite a 25-cent fare increase, subway ridership in New York City soared last
year to its highest level since the early 1970's, as the immigrant surge that
has reinvigorated neighborhoods throughout the city has rippled over to the
transit system.

The ridership statistics provide a snapshot of how the new immigration is having
its scattershot impact on the city neighborhoods. In Queens, where the already
crowded No. 7 line traverses immigrant communities like Woodside, Jackson
Heights, Elmhurst and Corona, ridership has risen 20 percent over the first half
of the decade. Similar increases were seen along the A and the C lines serving
Washington Heights, where thousands of Dominicans have settled and along the N
and R trains, which new arrivals from China, Mexico and Russia use to get to
their homes in neighborhoods like Sunset Park.

While the increases can be partly explained by safer and cleaner cars, along
with the city's booming tourist trade, the patterns of the increases -- with the
largest jumps in ridership along lines that go to immigrant neighborhoods --
largely explains why ridership rose from less than 1 billion in 1992 to 1.1
billion last year, transit officials said.

"The spurt in immigration has really been behind this increase," said Harvey
Poris, the Transit Authority's budget director. "It's a relatively new
phenomenon."

The jump in ridership has worsened already dense crowding on lines like the No.
7, but transit officials say they have no immediate plans to alter service,
since such population trends tend to be fluid. At the same time, the increase in
ridership has produced an unexpected $24 million windfall in fare revenue for a
system struggling with cutbacks in government subsidies.

The last time that officials could directly link ridership increases to the
surge of new immigrants was in the 1920's, as the last great immigrant era ended
in New York City, Mr. Poris said.

Despite the increase in subway ridership, bus ridership continued its 25-year
decline, dropping 5.2 percent to 426 million passengers in 1995. In part this is
due to the continuing popularity of illegal vans, which not coincidentally have
sprung up as a major transportation alternative in many immigrant neighborhoods.

Ridership on the subways began a long decline in 1970, when there were 1.3
billion riders a year as an exodus to the suburbs was followed by service cuts
to the system that lowered the system's performance. Ridership figures leveled
off at a billion a year through the 1980's, dipping to 995 million in 1991. But
from then on, ridership began to accelerate, something transit officials
initially attributed to the cleaner cars and improved performance of the trains
after a large-scale rebuilding program.

Historically, ridership patterns have often reflected the strength of the city's
economy; the more jobs available, the more people ride the subways to get to
work. When the economy declines, ridership decreases. Indeed, in 1990, when New
York and the rest of the country were in a recession, ridership decreased by
nearly 4 percent.

But from 1992 to 1995, employment rose only 1 percent while subway ridership
jumped 9.7 percent, with the biggest increases on weekends.

In a 1995 study, the Transit Authority found that the growth in immigration was
directly responsible for most of the increase in subway ridership between 1990
to 1994. For example, in the Ozone Park and Woodhaven sections of Queens, subway
ridership increased by 20 percent. During the same period, statistics from the
city's Planning Department showed that while the population of those
neighborhoods showed an increase of only 1.7 percent, school enrollment --
considered a more accurate barometer of immigration trends -- increased 23
percent.

Besides the No. 7 line that goes through the heart of Queens, other Brooklyn and
Queens lines that saw big increases in ridership were the the J and A lines,
particularly the stops along those lines in Woodhaven, a working-class area that
has seen a surge in immigrants. Another line that saw large ridership increases
were the Brooklyn portions of the N line, which goes through the new Chinese
enclave in Sunset Park and goes on to Brighton Beach, a magnet for Russian
immigrants.

So far, officials said that the effects of the increase in ridership have been
muted because it has stretched over a 24-hour period, so crowding has not been
particularly noticeable at many stations.

Still, rider advocacy groups said that the Transit Authority needs to better
address the needs of immigrants. For example, there are not enough signs in
Spanish, Russian and Chinese at stations where the majority of the riders speak
these languages, the advocates said, which they regard as vital if transit
officials want keep the immigrants as riders.

"It's definitely an English-first crew," said Joseph G. Rappaport, coordinator
of the Straphangers Campaign, a riders advocacy group. "If you go to other
international cities, you'll likely find signs in three to four different
languages. Here in New York signs are inadequate in one language."

Officials believe they can reverse the decline in bus ridership with the
elimination of two-fare zones in July, when riders will be able to transfer from
buses to subways for free. Officials plan to add 205 new buses to the fleet of
3,600 buses.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Subway Ridership Is Up" tracks number of subway
riders, from 1972 through 1996. Graph also shows sites of stations with large
increases in ridership from 1990 to 1994 that were attributed to a rise in
immigration. (Sources: New York City Transit [ridership]; Department of City
Planning [immigration]) (pg. B3)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 13, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Cuba Gives Long Prison Terms to Six Who Tried to Flee to U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 725 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 12


A Cuban court has sentenced six Cubans to prison terms ranging from 8 to 20
years for trying to flee to Florida in a commandeered tugboat last year. They
were intercepted by the United States Coast Guard and handed over to the Cuban
authorities.

It is the first known case in which refugees sent back to Cuba by the United
States under an immigration agreement negotiated between Washington and Havana
nearly two years ago have been tried and imprisoned.

In announcing the verdict late Tuesday, the official Cuban news agency, Prensa
Latina, attributed the severity of the prison terms to the "social
dangerousness" and violent nature of the offense.

The accord, reached in May 1995, intended to prevent any repetition of the
crisis of the summer of 1994 crisis in which some 30,000 Cubans attempted to
sail to Florida and eventually were resettled in the United States. The
agreement ended the American policy of granting refugee status to virtually all
Cubans rescued at sea.

It requires Washington to return such "boat people" to their homeland and to
issue at least 20,000 immigrant visas to Cubans each year.

Cuba, in turn, pledges not to persecute or harass the returnees and agrees to
allow United States officials to monitor the well being of those returned.

Angry Cuban exile leaders here were quick to cite the trial of the six, which
took place last week, as an example of what they regard as the systematic
failure of Fidel Castro, the Cuban President, and his Government to live up to
the agreement.

"This is only the most blatant of a recurring pattern of violations of the
immigration accord and international law by Castro," Representative Lincoln
Diaz-Balart, Republican of Florida, said today. "And what is more than
unacceptable is that the United States does nothing about it."

Relations between the United States and Cuba have been particularly tense since
Cuban jets shot down a pair of unarmed civilian aircraft belonging to a Miami
exile group a year ago, killing four people. Nevertheless, the two sides met in
Havana in December to review the accord and related immigration issues,
including the possible future repatriation of Cuban refugees even after they
reach American soil.

According to the official Cuban account of the case that just went to trial, the
six people defendants hijacked a tugboat off eastern Holguin Province on April
30, 1996, using two guns, a knife and a fake bomb to overpower the vessel's
captain. The tug later capsized, and all aboard were picked up by a Coast Guard
ship on patrol in international waters and sent home almost immediately.

The 1995 accord gives American authorities leeway not to return to Cuba any
person deemed likely to face persecution for having attempted to leave the
country illegally. But both countries also agreed to take steps to prevent the
use of violence in clandestine departures, which the Cuban Government regards as
an illegal act.

More than 500 Cubans have been forcibly returned by United States authorities
since the agreement went into effect. American officials say that Cuba has for
the most part abided by its promise not to persecute returnees. But human rights
groups and some repatriated Cubans have challenged that assessment, saying
harassment and other forms of retribution are widespread.

Until the accord was signed, the United States had routinely granted refugee
status to Cubans who had seized military jets, commercial aircraft, helicopters,
crop-dusting planes and a variety of sea-going vessels.

The most famous example is that of Orestes Lorenzo, a Cuban Air Force pilot who
flew his MIG fighter plane to Florida and later returned to Cuba in a rented
civilian plane to rescue his wife and children.

Since the agreement went into effect, Cuban officials have complained that the
United States has violated it by failing to return hijackers for criminal
prosecution in Cuba. The Clinton Administration has rejected such accusations,
saying it is adhering to international law by prosecuting such cases in the
United States.

In one incident, a Cuban Air Force pilot, Lieut. Col. Jose Fernandez Pupo,
hijacked a passenger plane and flew it to the American naval base at Guantanamo
Bay last July. He was later charged with air piracy, and is now being held in
jail awaiting trial in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 16, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

On the No. 7 Subway Line in Queens, It's an Underground United Nations

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1045 words


When Arelis DeLeon, a Dominican immigrant, steps onto a packed car of the No. 7
subway train at Junction Boulevard in Corona, Queens, each morning, she surveys
the press of people crammed into seats, guessing who will get off first and
leave her a place.

The young Chinese men? Definitely not. They'll stay on till Times Square, the
last stop, Ms. DeLeon assumes, then head downtown to the Chinatown restaurants
and shops where they work.

What about the Indians or Pakistanis? Hard to say. The Colombians or Dominicans?
Yes, Ms. DeLeon says, that's the best bet, since many of them get off at Queens
Plaza, though she isn't sure why. Of course if there's an elderly Irish or
Jewish lady, chances are she'll get off before Manhattan -- but such riders are
fewer and fewer these days, especially on the express during rush hour.

The multinational guessing game Ms. DeLeon plays on the way to her job in
Manhattan is as good an emblem as any of the phenomenon quantified by the
Transit Authority recently: subway ridership has risen to levels not seen in
more than a generation, and it is immigrants who have driven the increase. The
trains traversing immigrant neighborhoods have become particularly crowded, as
young families depend on them to go to work or to school.

If much of Queens developed between the 1930's and 1950's after subway lines
were built above Roosevelt Avenue and under Queens Boulevard, those same lines
are now transforming the borough by attracting newcomers near their tracks.
Russian and Bukharan Jewish emigres from the former Soviet Union have settled
around Queens Boulevard in Rego Park and Forest Hills, near the 75th Avenue F
line, whose ridership went up by 52 percent between 1990 and 1994.

On the No. 7, which links Times Square (the center of Manhattan) with downtown
Flushing, which has grown into the heart of Queens, ridership soared by 20
percent in the first half of the decade. And it is perhaps on this elevated
train, rattling over the row houses and squat wood-frame homes in Corona,
Elmhurst, Jackson Heights and Woodside -- images familiar from the opening
credits of "All in the Family" -- that immigration's impact on the subways is
most visible.

Annual ridership on the subways began declining in 1970, as many middle-class
and working-class New Yorkers fled to the suburbs. The number of passengers fell
to 995 million in 1991 but started climbing back in 1992, the Transit Authority
said. Last year, despite a 25-cent fare hike, 1.1 billion people -- the largest
number since 1972 -- rode the subways, and the Transit Authority collected $24
million in unexpected revenues.

The authority estimated that in 1995 on weekdays 174,000 people took the No. 7
from subway stations east of the 33d Street station in Sunnyside: up 7 percent,
from 163,000, in 1990, said Melissa Farley, a Transit Authority spokeswoman. The
busiest station was Flushing, the most heavily used station outside Manhattan,
followed by those in Corona, Jackson Heights and Elmhurst, the areas with the
largest concentrations of immigrants.

Immigration to the city averaged 112,600 people a year between 1990 and 1994, a
32 percent increase over the period from 1982 to 1989, according to the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Department of City
Planning.

Transit Authority officials attributed the ridership increase to people like
Perminder Singh, 31, who left India's Punjab region a year ago. Mr. Singh joined
his wife, who had already chosen to settle near downtown Flushing because it was
close to the No. 7 train's last stop, on Main Street and Roosevelt Avenue.

On Tuesday morning, as he does every day except Sunday, Mr. Singh took a
five-minute ride on the Q-24 bus to the No. 7 stop on Main Street, using an
entrance under a sign that advertises -- in Russian, Korean, Arabic, Spanish,
Chinese and, of course, English: "Learn English. Only $2.65 per hour."

Mr. Singh said he takes the 40-minute ride to Times Square and transfers to the
N or R line to get to Broadway and 20th Street, where he clocks in 10-hour days
working as a salesman at the Perfume Center of America.

"It's getting more crowded," he said, his eyelids looking heavy around 8:30 A.M.
"Everyone wants to go to New York." He had few complaints about the service,
though trains come infrequently on weekends and he has to pay double fare: $1.50
for the bus and the same for the subway. He said he looks forward to July when
two-fare zones will be eliminated.

On the same bench, Bennie Sostre, 28, who came from Puerto Rico in 1990 and is
studying to be a medical assistant, complained that the Transit Authority was
hurting working people by raising the fare without increasing service. Public
transportation advocates have also criticized the 25-cent, or 20 percent,
increase, because suburban railroad commuters received only a 9 percent rise in
fares.

Although major changes are not expected on the No. 7 line, express service will
be extended from the Woodside station to Queens Plaza in late March, cutting the
commute by a few minutes, Ms. Farley said. What's more, a $27 million renovation
of the No. 7's Flushing station is one of the few capital projects the Transit
Authority is now undertaking.

On Tuesday morning, minutes past 9 A.M., the elevated No. 7 train burrowed under
the East River on its way to Manhattan. Ms. DeLeon, who was standing in front of
Mr. Sostre, still did not have a seat.

Soon, the train would arrive at its terminus in Times Square, jostling Mr. Singh
from his slumber and scattering the passengers all over Manhattan, the borough
that these newcomers, like Queens residents before them, call "the city."

Mr. Sostre got off at Grand Central station. Ms. DeLeon sat down quickly for the
last two stops.

With a conspiratorial look, she nodded to her right, where five passengers of
Asian descent were bunched up.

"See?" Ms. DeLeon said. "The Chinese all get off at Times Square."

Turning to a young woman to her right, she asked: "You're Chinese, right?"

"No," the young woman said.

"Korean?"

"No."

"Japanese?"

"No."

The woman smiled. She said she was from the Philippines and was actually getting
off at Fifth Avenue.

"Oh," Ms. DeLeon said. "But you know what I mean."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: From Many Lands to One Line"
Subway ridership has surged in recent years, especially in neighborhoods where
the immigrant population is rising -- like those along the route of the No. 7
IRT line in Queens. Graph shows percentage change in weekday ridership from 1990
to 1994. It also shows number of immigrants settling from 1990 to 1994, by ZIP
code. (Source: New York City Transit [ridership]; Department of City Planning
[immigration])

Map of Queens showing the location of the No. 7 IRT line.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 16, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

GOVERNMENT;
Important Messages, More Than a Little Garbled

BYLINE: By BARBARA STEWART

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 999 words


When the state sent 100,000 welfare recipients a letter in Spanish that greeted
them, in a South American colloquialism for passive partners in gay sex,
Heriberto Sanchez Soto was dismayed but not surprised.

"I didn't think the letter made sense in English," said Mr. Sanchez Soto, a
director of the Hispanic Directors Association, a coalition of some 25 Hispanic
community groups.

The welfare department's letter, which saluted its readers as
"Receptor/Receptora" instead of the proper "Senor/Senora," highlights a problem
that municipal and state governments face daily: how English-only officials
communicate with New Jersey's 1 million foreign-born residents, newcomers who
speak only Spanish, Polish, Italian, Arabic or any of dozens of other languages.
How do they let residents know the days recyclables are collected, or the
circumstances under which welfare checks will be cut off?

The answer, as old as New Jersey's history of immigration, is that they bumble
along. Today's government officials communicate with Latinos and Arabs the way
their turn-of-the-century predecessors did with Italians and German Jews. They
pull employees who know foreign languages from their tasks to translate
conversations or notices. They call on unofficial leaders of ethnic groups
fluent in two tongues. They ask immigrants to bring a friend or relative who
speaks English. Naturally, some bloopers and confused messages are exchanged
along with information.

"It's never a neat, smooth process," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J.
Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "It's
always messy and erratic." Immigrants "gravitate to local stores, where networks
of information develop," he said. "Those that are here for a while tell others
when garbage is being collected."

The state Department of Human Services employs three Spanish translators to work
on letters and notices, said John McKeegan, a spokesman. All written messages
from Human Services are sent in English and Spanish. William Waldman, Human
Services Commissioner, apologized for the badly spelled, blooper-filled letter
sent out this month. The mistakes occurred when too many people fiddled with the
words but none took charge.

Enlisting the help of fluent employees or asking a client to bring an
English-speaking friend or relative is haphazard and occasionally dangerous, Mr.
Sanchez Soto said. It can result in errors and is indicative of the state
government's indifference to Hispanic immigrants.

The welfare letter exhibited "a lack of multi-cultural competency," he said.
"They ask a receptionist hired to answer the phone in English to translate
Spanish. They need to hire people at the highest levels of decision-making."

"Literal translation is easy," he added. "But to make sense of the message, you
need to know more than the language." Important messages require expert
translation and knowledge of the field. The error-riddled letter, for instance,
was trying to explain new welfare regulations, including categories of people
being cut from the rolls and time limits on receiving checks.

But municipal officials say informal, catch-as-catch-can translating work not
only succeeds but can also foster a deeper level of communication: friendship
between immigrants and natives that goes beyond the relaying of information.

Passaic County, long the first home of immigrants from around the world, is
typical. The Clifton Department of Health counts on workers fluent in Spanish
and Arabic to deal with its most populous ethnic groups. Its handbook and video
on food-safety regulations for restaurant workers has been translated into
Mandarin. The town saved money by finding a local Chinese-language student to
translate free, as a class project.

Paterson, with residents of 53 different ethnic backgrounds, has always had to
communicate in dozens of languages. "It happens every day," said Mayor Marty
Barnes. By necessity, the municipal government uses established longtime
residents, informal leaders in various ethnic groups. Public notices are printed
in English, Spanish and Arabic. Latinos and Arabs in city hall translate as part
of their duties. Speakers of Turkish and Lebanese are told to bring back
somebody who knows English.

When gangs of Dominican and Arabic boys were battling at Paterson high schools
in September, a task force of immigrant parents was appointed. The crisis is
over, but the task force still meets, translating messages to and from parents,
teachers and school administrators, said Joy A. Friedman, a spokeswoman for the
school. "They're finding out what the needs are, what's being said on the
streets," she said.

Two volunteer translators are Nijmeh Jaber and Walid Rabah, editors of the
20,000-circulation Arab Voice newspaper, who are the parents of seven boys and
one baby girl. "We speak with them Arabic," said Mrs. Rabah, explaining how she
moves between Arabic parents and teachers and school officials. "We do it to
help our sons. Tomorrow they will be our life."

Neighborly translating is "one of the beauties" of small municipal governments,
said William G. Dressel, executive director of the New Jersey League of
Municipalities. "The municipalities know these folks," he said. "They know who
speaks for this particular ethnic group. They don't need state mandates or
bureaucratic red tape" to force them to communicate with non-English-speaking
residents.

That leads to another question as old as immigration to New Jersey: just who
does need the government's red tape? And can anybody make a cogent translation
of an inherently confusing governmental message?

Mr. Hughes, the Rutgers dean, can answer with scholarly authority. "Government
doesn't communicate well in any case," he said. "It doesn't communicate well in
English." Therefore a letter in Spanish that lists "welfare-benefit cuts to
young parents and rapists" -- the state's version of "parole violators" -- is
"just carrying on the tradition."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nijmeh Jaber and Walid Rabah, editors of the newspaper Arab
Voice, who serve as volunteer translators in Paterson. (Don Hogan Charles/The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Many Florida Blacks, Tossed by Population Shifts, Say They Feel 'Left Out'

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1613 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 14


M. Athalie Range became Miami's first black city commissioner in 1965, a time
when the civil rights movement was "roaring," she says, and blacks nationwide
had the promise of new political and economic frontiers.

A string of other black politicians followed her in the commission seat, the
only one of the five seats ever held by blacks. But last November, three decades
after Ms. Range fought to bring things like sidewalks and street lights to her
constituency, the seat was lost to a Hispanic man.

For many blacks, that political setback has come to symbolize unfulfilled
promise in the Miami metropolitan area, where so many other Floridians have
prospered.

"We feel more or less left out," said Ms. Range, now an 81-year-old funeral
director.

Florida, a state that in the last 50 years has leapfrogged to fourth most
populous in the country, has been a magnet for retirees, immigrants and others
seeking sunshine, a refuge or the kind of economic opportunity that comes with
explosive growth.

But as whites have come from the northern states and Hispanic immigrants from
foreign countries, Florida's transformation has come at a cost to part of its
black population. Many restaurant and hotel jobs once held by blacks now go to
white and Hispanic applicants. Black neighborhoods have been lost to urban
development. And as their percentage of Florida's population has eroded, blacks
have lost influence or failed to gain the economic and political foothold
envisioned by many in the 60's.

Nowhere is this more evident than in Miami, where black residents talk of the
sense of being passed by, rather than displaced. It plays out at polling places,
where blacks have declined to a quarter of registered voters while Hispanic
residents have grown to one-half of registered voters. As recently as the early
1970's, the number of blacks registered to vote here was more than twice that of
Hispanic residents.

It plays out in black sections like Overtown and parts of Coconut Grove, where
poverty, unemployment and low educational attainment contrast sharply with the
tourist glitz and a booming downtown that almost engulfs them. And it plays out
in ethnic tensions that have flared in riots, boycotts and a recent dispute over
the leadership of a conference intended to promote understanding among ethnic
groups.

The Rev. Willie E. Sims Jr., the assistant director of the Dade County Office of
Black Affairs, said: "Most blacks here, when they go home to Alabama or Georgia
for funerals or family visits, to the backward areas they fled for Miami, they
find more blacks in elected positions, more blacks living well. Some say the car
travels faster going north away from Miami than going back."

South Florida offers the clearest example of demographic changes that have
occurred statewide. From 1950 to 1990, Florida moved from being the
20th-most-populous state to being 4th most populous, and at the same time, its
black population also grew, to 1.8 million from 600,000, according to Census
Bureau figures. But as a percentage of Florida's population over all, blacks
dropped to 14 percent from 22 percent.

Of the 14 million residents now in Florida, 14 percent are Hispanic, say
researchers at the University of Florida, and Hispanic residents may have
already surpassed blacks as the state's largest minority.

In cities like Miami and Orlando, Hispanic immigrants have increased competition
for jobs, social services and political influence. But in cities like St.
Petersburg, which is 19 percent black and 76 percent white, with few Hispanic
residents, the complaints of black residents have more to do with vestiges of
the legal segregation that lasted until the 1960's. The attitudes and patterns
of such segregation, sociologists say, continue informally through
discrimination in housing, jobs and credit and in police practices around
Florida.

After two disturbances in a black neighborhood in St. Petersburg in late 1996,
prompted by the fatal shooting of a black teen-ager by a white policeman, an
advisory panel to the United States Commission on Civil Rights found that while
the killing had ignited the violence, feelings of alienation had fueled the
undercurrent of tension that had exploded.

"I saw hopelessness, despair, nothing to look forward to," said Rabbi Solomon
Agin, the panel's chairman.

Many of the frustrations mirror those of other blacks throughout the country.
And blacks in Florida, like in the rest of the country, have also made
significant advances after the end of legal segregation opened doors to schools,
jobs and a better standard of living.

More blacks hold elective office in Florida than ever before: 210 in 1994
compared with 110 in 1980, according to the Joint Center for Political and
Economic Studies in Washington. They include 4 of the 13 Dade County
commissioners, 7 state legislators and a Congresswoman, Carrie P. Meek. A
significant victory came last year when Nathaniel Glover Jr., 53, became the
sheriff of Jacksonville, Florida's first black sheriff since Reconstruction.

"Certainly, we've come a long way," said Sheriff Glover, a Jacksonville native.
"Ten years ago it wouldn't have happened."

But Census Bureau figures also show that 32 percent of Florida's black families
lived below the poverty level in 1989, compared with 9 percent of white families
and 20 percent of Hispanic families.

It was Fidel Castro's assumption of power in Cuba in January 1959 that made
immigration concerns, not integration, the paramount issue in Miami as the
exodus of Cubans to South Florida began. In 1960, Census Bureau figures show,
Miami's population was 77 percent white and 22 percent "nonwhite," the category
then used by the bureau. By 1990, it was 24 percent black, 12 percent white and
62 percent Hispanic.

In recent years, educational levels, government relocation aid and, in some
cases, money from home have given immigrants, including blacks from countries
like Jamaica, an advantage over Miami natives.

The divisions have affected in politics. The last two elections for mayor of
Dade County, where half of the two million residents are Hispanic, and for the
Miami City Commission, were fought along racial lines, with the black candidates
losing despite near total support from black voters.

Of the five city commissioners, four are Hispanic and one is white.

Miami is also a place where a black "brain drain" is considered serious. Part of
the problem, business experts say, is that Miami does not offer the level of
professional jobs offered by cities like Atlanta. But black professionals say
they find Miami inhospitable in other ways, from being shut out of jobs that
require a knowledge of Spanish to the lack of nightclubs, restaurants and other
places that appeal to blacks.

"There seems to be no stable black middle class," said Bill Diggs, 34, a black
native of Augusta, Ga. Mr. Diggs is a telecommunications manager who first moved
here from Wilmington, Del., for a job in 1987, left in 1989 for Atlanta and
returned in 1995. "There is no jelling of the community," Mr. Diggs said. "We've
almost become a caste system."

This time around, he settled with his wife and two children in neighboring
Broward County. And this time, Mr. Diggs has found in Miami a black business and
social network through the Black Executive Forum, a group that started two years
ago to recruit and retain black professionals, among other things.

The forum is the result of what is known here as the quiet riot, a three-year
tourist boycott of Dade County that was organized by black civic leaders and
brought on by two events that happened in close proximity: the police beating of
Haitian demonstrators who accused workers in a Hispanic-owned store of
mistreating black customers and the snubbing of President Nelson Mandela of
South Africa on his 1990 visit here by Cuban-American politicians for his
refusal to denounce Mr. Castro.

The boycott, which county officials estimated had cost over $20 million in
convention business, was called off in 1993 when civic leaders accepted economic
goals to increase black participation in the tourist industry of the Miami
metropolitan area.

Ari Sosa, who has been director of the Dade County Department of Community
Affairs for the last 13 years, said other programs in the last three years to
promote Hispanic- and black-owned businesses in each other's neighborhoods and
increase black hiring, among others, had brought ethnic groups closer.

Incidents that could once have led to trouble have instead led to apologies, Mr.
Sosa said. He also noted that in the dispute over the community relations
conference, the meeting's planners settled for increasing the list of leaders to
include all races.

Marilyn Holifield, a Miami lawyerwho helped organize the protest, said that
"when we resolved the boycott, we didn't really win, but we made it possible for
people to be sensitive in ways they never were before."

But no change has brought as much anticipation as the opening of the first major
hotel in the area to be owned by blacks, the result of a $10 million incentive
package offered by the City of Miami Beach as part of the agreement to end the
boycott. The hotel, in the popular South Beach section, is to open by 1999.

Electoral defeats and other setbacks may give blacks the sense of "getting
nowhere," said Ms. Range, the former city commissioner who served for five
years, but a black-owned hotel will be a monument to the boycott and a symbol of
hope. "People, both black and white, need to see something that represents the
struggle, something we can put our hands on," she said. "It's something that's
resulted from success."


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demographic changes in Florida have clouded the hopes of many
black residents. M. Athalie Range, now a funeral director, became Miami's first
black city commissioner in 1965. A black business and social network is
important for Bill Diggs, having breakfast with his wife, Thomasina, their
12-year-old son, Drew, and daughter, Desiree, 3, in Broward County. (Photographs
by Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Joy and Fear as Refugees Look to Freedom

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., Feb. 16


Forty illegal Chinese immigrants imprisoned after their ship, the Golden
Venture, ran aground off Queens, N.Y., say they are looking forward to freedom
with a mixture of joy and trepidation after spending nearly four years in a
county prison.

On Friday, the Clinton Administration ordered that the 40 Chinese immigrants
detained in York -- as well as 13 held in a California lockup -- be released
while their petitions for asylum are being reviewed. The paper work may take
weeks, though all are expected to be free by March 1.

"I have been suffer enough," said one detainee, Dai He, 28, speaking in broken
English to news reporters by telephone from behind a glass window in a prison
visitation room.

He said he was ailing from a gastrointestinal problem that causes him to vomit
blood. Prison physicians have been unable to relieve his symptoms. Asked about
his immediate plans upon release, Mr. He said, "I see doctor."

Some of the detainees will remain in central Pennsylvania with families who have
befriended them and served as their advocates. Others are expected to seek out
relatives elsewhere in the country.

"The work is not yet done," said Beverly Church, a paralegal and a member of
Golden Vision, a group that has worked to free the immigrants since their
freighter ran aground off Queens on June 3, 1993.

Ms. Church hopes eventually to obtain artist visas for some of the men who make
intricate art objects by folding and coloring paper, a process called origami.
Their folk art is now on display at the Museum of Chinese in the Americas in
Manhattan's Chinatown.

Others may be eligible to stay in the United States for religious reasons or
because they violated China's restriction on having only one child.

The uncertainty of the future has some of the men nervous.

"He's scared," Cindy Lobach, said of Chen Sherm Dee, who at 21 is one of the
youngest of the detainees.

Mr. Dee fled China because he was not permitted to attend college, said Ms.
Church, who is seeking an artist visa for him.

"It kept me busy while I'm being in prison," Mr. Dee said, displaying an origami
vase. He said he also made dragons, eagles, pineapples and a bird cage.

"He's very bright," Ms. Church said.

As they have every Sunday for more than 180 weeks, about 40 advocates for the
detainees held a vigil today in a field across from the prison, where the
immigrants watched from a window.

Alongside a banner reading "Freedom," the volunteers talked, prayed, celebrated
and sang.

"We used to sing 'We Shall Overcome.' Today, we sang 'We Have Overcome,' " said
Jeff Lobach, a lawyer who has aided the immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of Golden Vision waved yesterday to Chinese detainees in
prison in York, Pa. The immigrants, held since their ship ran aground off Queens
in June 1993, have been ordered released. Banner declares "Freedom." (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Flood of Dominicans Lets Some Enter U.S. by Fraud

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1184 words

DATELINE: SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic


The American mainland is 850 miles away, but the United States Government likes
to call its consulates in places like this the front line in the struggle
against illegal immigration.

That may be so, but the troops toiling here confront a situation in which they
are increasingly outnumbered, outflanked and outspent.

Recent budget and staff cuts, combined with changes in immigration laws and
procedures ordered by Washington, have hindered the screening of a large and
growing number of visa applicants. Fraud, which the consul general describes as
all-pervasive, is becoming even harder to detect.

As a result, consular officials say, Dominicans who would otherwise be denied
visas are making their way to the United States.

"There is a high level of desire to leave this country," a junior consular
officer said, "and there are only so many of us." The staff receives more than
500 requests for immigrant and tourist visas daily. "We can't scrutinize cases
the way we should," the officer said, "and so we are having to overlook things
that would have been grounds for ineligibility in the past."

In the 12-month period ending Sept. 30, the consulate here processed 52,410
requests for immigrant visas, which makes this the third-busiest post in the
world, after Manila and Mexico City. More than 40 percent of those visa requests
were rejected, for reasons ranging from fraud to lack of financial support. The
consulate also processed 110,000 applications for nonimmigrant visas.

Additionally, thousands of would-be immigrants enter the American mainland
illegally through Mexico or Puerto Rico.

As for legal immigration to New York City, the Dominican Republic has become the
largest source, with an annual flow that has risen 50 percent over the last
decade. From 1990 to 1994, the Dominican Republic accounted for one of every
five new immigrants to New York City, or more than 110,000 people, according to
a report issued in January by the City Planning Department.

As a result, the ties between the United States and this Caribbean nation of 7.5
million are ever more binding and complex. According to a poll published here
recently in the newspaper Hoy, half of all Dominicans now have relatives in the
United States, and more than two-thirds would move there if they could.

Two and a half years ago the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service, hoping to streamline procedures, stopped requiring seekers of legal
permanent resident status already in the United States to return to their
homelands as part of the application process. The Federal Government projected
that as a result, consular traffic here would decrease 15 percent.

Instead, the number of petitions for "adjustment of status" at the consulate
grew by more than 20 percent in 1996. That, officials said, is at least in part
because the cost of obtaining a green card in New York City, where most
Dominican immigrants live, is now more than $1,200, according to immigration
officials.

By contrast, the round-trip air fare here from New York can cost as little as
$300, and the application processing fee is only about $260. And since many
Dominicans entered the United States illegally in the first place and have
remained in the United States for long periods, they welcome the chance to
return home, stay with relatives and visit old friends as their papers are proc
essed.

Because of budget cuts imposed on the State Department, the number of consular
officers and local employees here has declined 10 percent over the last three
years. Several job vacancies have gone unfilled in an effort to save money. The
remaining employees labor under a workload that keeps them from examining
documents in detail or conducting field investigations.

"Based on the projected decrease, they cut our staff," Consul General Brooke C.
Holmes acknowledged. "So now we have more work to do with fewer personnel, and
that has resulted in a decline in our capacity to process cases, and an increase
in our backlog."

Applicants and consular officials agree that applications are scrutinized much
more closely in New York. Immigrants' interviews there can run as long as two
hours.

"That's pretty intense," one official said. "We simply don't have the resources
to do that." American officials here say that although more than half of visa
applications based on marriage are probably fraudulent, their typical interview
rarely lasts longer than 20 minutes.

They are quick to point out that recent innovations have enabled them to work
more efficiently. Among these: using applicants' fingerprints to check for
criminal records in the United States; using DNA tests on those seeking
admittance under family reunification provisions, and checking with New York
State officials to determine whether sponsors of immigrants are receiving public
assistance, which would make their sponsorship illegal.

Nevertheless, one consular officer here called the situation demoralizing.
Officers express particular frustration with the Federal Government's emphasis
on high-cost, high-profile, high-technology interdiction efforts along the
Mexican border. They see these as coming at the expense of their own efforts.

As one put it: "If we could get another dozen people here, at a fraction of that
cost, we could keep thousands more ineligible people out. But interviewing
people on the line is not as sexy as driving your jeep around the Mexican border
with an infrared nightscope."

The situation is likely to worsen this spring, when Congress's new requirements
for immigrants go into effect. As soon as the forms are ready, each applicant
will be required to submit an "affidavit of support" from his or her sponsor in
the United States, certifying that the sponsor's income is at least 125 percent
of the poverty level, currently $15,600 a year for a family of four.

In front of a restaurant just around the corner from the consulate, traffickers
are doing a booming business in fraudulent documents. These include phony
American or Dominican passports, visa stamps, birth and marriage certificates,
and Social Security cards. The going price for such documents is $5,000 to
$8,000, depending on what is needed, and the market is obviously huge.

"If we had the resources to investigate," said Clyde Howard, head of the
nonimmigrant visa section here, "we'd probably find some element of fraud in the
vast majority of cases. But you can't investigate everything."

Document traffickers produce visas with laser images of a higher quality than
those the consulate puts into passports. For them, the new requirements promise
a bonanza. The Internal Revenue Service and Social Security documents that can
serve as proof of income -- not to mention pay stubs and letters of employment
-- are easier to falsify.

"We're going to see a lot more fake documents," one consular officer predicted.
"Congress passed this law, but they haven't given us the tools we need for
verification. Everyone will just raise the level of income they are claiming by
25 percent, and we will be buried in a blizzard of paperwork."


LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dominicans seeking visas to enter the United States line up
outside the consulate in Santo Domingo, where officials, overwhelmed by budget
cuts and other factors, say they cannot scrutinize cases properly. (Alan S.
Weiner for The New York Times)

Maps show the location of Santo Domingo: The consulate in Santo Domingo is one
of America's busiest.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

A Sudden Rush to Marry at City Hall

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 793 words


By 1 P.M. yesterday, the line snaked from the elevators around the corner, up a
staircase and back to the glass doors of the City Clerk's office in downtown
Manhattan. Many of the 100 or so weary couples clamoring to get inside for
marriage licenses or lightning-fast wedding ceremonies had been waiting for four
hours, and rather than basking in marital bliss, they were furious.

"We went to the office in the Bronx first because we thought it wouldn't be
crowded, but it was packed," said Jesse Diaz, a 23-year-old electronics
salesman, holding hands with Eva Melendez, his fiancee. "Here is much worse."

People in New York City are flooding municipal offices for marriage licenses, a
situation that might be driven by concern about pending changes to the Federal
immigration law. In Manhattan, which is seeing double the number of applicants,
the problem is so bad that fights are even breaking out between prospective
newlyweds as they jockey to keep their place in line.

"Something's got to be causing this," said Carlos Cuevas, the City Clerk. "But
it's really hard to tell. I've never seen anything like it in 11 years here."

Immigration experts suspect that many illegal immigrants think that by marrying
legal citizens, they will be able to avoid deportation or the loss of benefits
once the new immigration law goes into effect on April 1. The experts say that
fear and misinformation about the new law may be driving the surge in marriages,
even though the law will not, for instance, lead to mass deportations
immediately after April 1.

Indeed, cities with large immigrant populations, like Miami, are seeing similar
increases in marriage-struck couples.

"There's no doubt that there's a lot of fears in the community," said James
Hagerty, the regional coordinator of the Catholic Legal Immigration Network, a
nonprofit agency that helps immigrants apply for residency and citizenship.
"There are a lot of false rumors about what's going to happen."

He and other experts said that what many of the couples probably did not realize
was that, under the provisions of the new law, marriage provides only the right
to apply for legal residency. After the marriage, the process can still take
several years, they said.

In the thick crowd outside the City Clerk's office on the second floor of the
Municipal Building yesterday, many of the couples waiting to get inside Room 257
-- the chapel -- would not give their names or talk about why they were getting
married, except to say that they thought it was time or that they had decided
"to elope."

Ms. Melendez, an American citizen and Mr. Diaz, a legal immigrant from Mexico,
met only six months ago through the Internet. They said that fears about the new
laws had not pushed them to get married faster. But Ms. Melendez is five months
pregnant with their first child, and they admitted later that they were worried
that their children might not be able to attend public school or receive other
benefits if they were not married by April 1.

Like the fears of many of the couples around them, theirs were unjustified: If
their child is born in the United States, the child will automatically become a
citizen. And even if the child were a legal or illegal immigrant, he would be
able to attend public schools, lawyers said yesterday.

The anxieties of those who stood for hours -- not even leaving for the bathroom
because they were afraid of losing their place -- sometimes boiled over
yesterday. One woman began to scream at people she saw cutting in line.

At one point, William Jurek, a 37-year-old carpenter from Cliffside Park, N.J.,
bolted out of line and grabbed another man by the neck after the man tried to
step into the line ahead of him .

"You better get out of here or I'm going to break your neck!" Mr. Jurek screamed
at the man before throwing him to the tile floor. The other man punched Mr.
Jurek in the left eye before security guards separated them.

"This is supposed to be the happiest day in all of our lives and look at it:
it's chaos," said Mr. Jurek, his eye red and swelling as he stood with his
fiancee, from Ozone Park, Queens.

Ann Pilsbury, the director of Central American Legal Assistance in Brooklyn,
said yesterday that she thought many of the Spanish-speaking couples who were
filling the marriage bureaus were doing so because the April 1 date had taken on
a dreaded symbolism in their communities.

"There's been a lot of talk on Spanish radio and television about it," she said.
"And I think a lot of people out there believe that when April rolls around,
they might get even deported if they're not married, which is not going to
happen.

"The sad thing about it is that they don't realize that getting married gets
them nothing, really."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 1997, Saturday

CORRECTION:

A picture caption on Feb. 20 about couples seeking marriage licenses in New York
City in advance of changes in immigration rules misstated the given name of a
woman who was with her fiance at the City Clerk's office. As noted in the
article, she was Eva Melendez, not Eve.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesse Diaz and Eve Melendez waiting at City Hall with others to
marry. Immigration experts suspect the surge in weddings is related to the
change in law on April 1. But marriage does not mean citizenship. (James
Estrin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Virtuoso Far From Home;
Uzbeks' Classical Master Reclaims Role in Queens

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1401 words


Ilyas Malayev's leap from stardom to obscurity makes his an extraordinary tale
of the immigrant experience. In Uzbekistan, he was a beloved musician and
vaudevillian with the tragicomic face of a clown. He once performed in stadiums
packed with tens of thousands of fans, but in Queens, he seems to be just
another aging refugee scraping by on welfare.

One recent afternoon, however, it was like old times in Tashkent. He had gone to
a small Uzbek cafe in Kew Gardens that was redolent of fresh bread, cumin seed
and dill, to be interviewed by an Uzbek television reporter for the
Government-run station back home.

From his table, Mr. Malayev held court among his countrymen. He kissed women's
hands, poured teacups of cognac all around and graciously accepted cigarettes
from admiring strangers, his gold teeth glinting.

"Of course, who does not know Malayev?" said Pisar Kazakov, a tailor at the next
table.

It was three years ago that Mr. Malayev immigrated to Queens, along with
thousands of other Jewish refugees who arrived here after the breakup of the
Soviet Union. He had watched as the world of his ancestors -- the Bukharan Jews,
who have lived in Central Asia for more than a millennium -- was relocating to
Tel Aviv and Queens. The Israeli Government estimates that more than half the
120,000 Jews -- both Bukharan and Ashkenazi -- in Uzbekistan at the end of the
1980's moved to Israel, while a fifth moved to the United States.

But Mr. Malayev said the real reason he gave up his celebrity and livelihood was
to chase the dream of publishing his poetry in America.

Though he had won fame as a salaried entertainer in the Soviet system, he had
been unable to get his poetry into print -- perhaps because of anti-Semitism, as
he believes, or the ossified Soviet cultural bureaucracy, as some scholars
suggest.

Only now is his mastery of Central Asia's classical music and poetry beginning
to gain a wider audience here. Last month, the Shanachie label released "At the
Bazaar of Love," a compact disc by the Ilyas Malayev Ensemble. And last month,
Indiana University Press published a book, "The Hundred Thousand Fools of God:
Musical Travels in Central Asia (and Queens, New York)" by Theodore Levin, which
includes a knowing, affectionate portrait of him.

This Sunday, Mr. Malayev and his group are to perform in Lincoln Center at Alice
Tully Hall in a concert produced by the Queens Council on the Arts. Dressed in a
midnight blue velvet robe edged with gold applique, he will play the tar, a lute
with a body in the shape of a figure 8, and sing folk melodies and songs from
the shash maqam, the classical music of Bukhara. Musicologists say he performs
with the skill and passion of a true virtuoso.

"He's one of maybe half a dozen people in the world who has such a deep
knowledge of the shash maqam," said Walter Z. Feldman, a lecturer in Turkish
studies at the University of Pennsylvania. "What Malayev knows almost nobody
knows."

Like thousands of other emigres from Uzbekistan, Mr. Malayev, who is 61, and his
wife, Muhabbat Shamayeva, who is 52 and who herself was a famous popular singer,
live in one of the plain red-brick apartment buildings that line Queens
Boulevard and 108th Street in Forest Hills and Rego Park. They will both perform
at Lincoln Center.

A row of string instruments -- a sitar, a tanbur, a tar and a banjo -- hang
against an Oriental rug on the living room wall of their modest apartment. Mr.
Malayev plays those four and 11 others.

Mr. Malayev, a short man with a Santa Claus belly, spoke with endearing
braggadocio about the throngs of fans who used to laugh at his jokes and sway to
his music. He proudly explained through a translator, in Russian, that Sharaf
Rashidov, First Secretary of the Communist Party of Uzbekistan from 1959 to
1983, was "my biggest fan."

"No occasion would be complete without Malayev," he said. "When Brezhnev came to
visit, my wife and I always sang."

Mr. Malayev's life has been full of paradoxes: he was a Jewish star in a Soviet
system notorious for its anti-Semitism; he is a 20th-century Jewish poet who
mastered an Islamic poetic tradition that had its greatest flowering in the 15th
century.

As a refugee in the United States, who was admitted under a legal provision that
presumes Jews from the former Soviet Union to be a persecuted religious
minority, he performs at receptions and ceremonial events for the Uzbek Embassy.
He entertained President Islom Karimov when he visited Washington recently.

Historically, Bukharan Jews were court musicians to Muslim emirs, said Theodore
Levin, the author, who is an assistant professor of music at Dartmouth.

"That is a role Ilya has fulfilled in this country," he said. "He's transplanted
himself as the Jewish court musician to the Muslim political establishment. The
Uzbekistan Embassy wants to throw a party, they call Ilyas."

Nonetheless, Mr. Malayev said he had felt the sting of discrimination in his
homeland because he was a member of a tiny minority of Jews in a Muslim society.
"I wrote poetry for years and it was never known because the people who had the
power to publish it put up iron gates," he said.

His religion may well have been a factor, but Mr. Feldman, who teaches Turkish
studies, said it is also possible that the Soviet cultural bureaucracy regarded
Mr. Malayev's lyrical love poems written in the classical style as "silly,
old-fashioned and reactionary."

Mr. Malayev arrived in the United States convinced that he would finally be
published. But while he was well known here within his ethnic enclave (more than
1,300 people attended his 60th birthday party), he found no publishing patron.

"For a person born in a totalitarian system to come to a capitalistic world and
adapt is very difficult," he said. "I thought I would come here and a Bukharan
millionaire would offer to pay to publish my poetry. Unfortunately, my
expectations blew up like a soap bubble.

"As a chicken becomes fatter, she stops laying eggs. So it seems that the richer
people become, the stingier they become."

Mr. Malayev finally published the book, "Milk and Sugar," himself. The poetry is
in Persian and Uzbek. With a loan from the Bukharan Jewish Center in Queens,
which he is still repaying, he had 1,000 copies printed.

"My purpose in life was to leave something that will be remembered for decades
or centuries," he said. "I have done that in the United States by publishing my
book."

In one of the poems, translated by Mr. Feldman, Mr. Malayev wrote:


In my heart I long to hear sweet words

In my heart I long to see the graceful strutting of the peacock

The turning of the wheel of fortune won't bring me to my dear one's feast,

But in my heart I hear the screams of that revolving sphere.

After hours of talk, Mr. Malayev's wife put on some videos of each of them
performing solos with an orchestra in Tashkent. On one, he played "My Favorite
Things," from "The Sound of Music," on the sitar. Only Julie Andrews's voice was
missing.

Mr. Malayev's manager, Svetlana Levitin, leaned over and whispered, "It's the
first time in history this song was played on the sitar."

Mr. Malayev soon disappeared into his bedroom and re-emerged in an elegant suit
and tie, ready for his appointment with the Uzbek reporters. He met them and
Alexander Ahmedov, consul general of Uzbekistan, at the cafe in Kew Gardens.

"People are really interested in the life of this family of great musicians,"
Mr. Ahmedov said. "Everyone knows they're in the United States, but no one knows
what they're doing. When I was a kid, they were on TV every day."

While Mr. Malayev gave his interview to a respectful Uzbek reporter as another
wielded a video camera, Rafael Niktalov, the picture of an emigre newspaper
editor with his gold-rimmed glasses, trench coat and neatly trimmed beard,
dropped by.

Mr. Niktalov, a musicologist from Samarkand, began publishing his newspaper,
Most, which means Bridge in Russian, for a mostly Bukharan Jewish audience three
years ago. Every issue has included a story about Mr. Malayev.

"People ask me: 'Rafik, why every time are you writing about one person?' " Mr.
Niktalov said. " 'Who is he? Your king? Your God?'

"I tell them: 'Please, you must know who is Ilyas Malayev. He is a genius. Ilyas
Malayev will make our people famous today and tomorrow. Thanks to him, our
people will be known.' "

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: More than 1,300 people attended a tribute to Ilyas Malayev, the
poet and musician, last June in Queens on his 60th birthday. (Chang W. Lee/The
New York Times [instruments]; David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 1); It was
like old times in Tashkent last June at Forest Hills High School in Queens, at a
packed birthday tribute to Ilyas Malayev, a Bukharan Jew who became a master of
Uzbekistan's classical Islamic poetry and music. (David Corio for The New York
Times)(pg. B8)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Report Foreign Guests? French Tempers Flare

BYLINE: By MARLISE SIMONS

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 966 words

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 19


Even by the standards of an angry, sullen France, an unusual uprising is in the
making: hundreds of French actors, film directors and cartoonists have said they
are ready to go to jail if a new immigration bill is passed.

More defiant still, many Government officials have publicly announced that they
would ignore the proposed law. Among them are influential groups like the
national association of French mayors and a number of judges and magistrates.

At issue is a Government bill, due to be discussed in Parliament on Tuesday,
that aims to tighten measures to prevent illegal immigration. The portion of the
bill that has caused particular outrage among the intelligentsia would oblige
the French to inform the authorities of the movements of visiting foreigners who
are on special guest visas, staying in French homes.

Some foreigners would be exempt, including visitors from Europe and industrial
countries like Japan and the United States, but visitors from a long list of
countries, among them many in Africa and the Middle East, are designated as
targets of the new law.

Officials have made it no secret that behind the new immigration bill lies the
fear that all mainstream political parties share of the growing extreme-right
position of the National Front.

The Front, with its strident anti-foreigner platform, blames immigrants for
France's record unemployment, and in recent local elections it won control of a
fourth town in southern France.

Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre, who proposed the bill, is known to see it as
a means of preventing the extreme right from further using the immigration issue
to gain support.

Critics have likened the proposal to the repressive policies decreed by the
wartime Vichy regime that required the French to register Jewish residents with
the police. Many critics of the current proposal, including more than 130
magistrates who have signed a protest, have called it a dangerous flouting of
civil liberties.

"This law would transform all citizens into police informers," said Dan Franck,
a writer and a coordinator of a protest demonstration planned for Saturday.

The bill has in fact been before Parliament since mid-December, but it only
turned into a major political issue in the last week when nearly 60 film makers
demanded to be prosecuted.

"We are guilty, every one of us, of harboring illegal foreign residents
recently," they said in a statement. "We ask to be investigated and put on
trial."

This stand has since mushroomed into a campaign encompassing thousands of
actors, writers, musicians, scientists, lawyers and members of other professions
who are signing petitions and calling on others to disobey the law if it passes
Parliament. Others are offering to take in illegal immigrants or say they have
already done so in defiance of the Government's plan.

More than 50 cartoonists signed a statement demanding that they be investigated
and tried for "harboring illegal aliens." The cartoonists contributed to a
special supplement filled with protest cartoons published this week by the
liberal daily newspaper Liberation.

The issue in recent days has dominated public debate, filling newspapers and
magazines and leading to lengthy and fiery arguments on television.

In keeping with French tradition, a countermovement is already on the way,
accusing the protesters of grandstanding.

In an article headlined "The Petitioning Intelligentsia," the conservative
newspaper Le Figaro said today that members of the intellectual and social
elite, who had no special answer to anything, signed petitions because they
would hate it if their name did not appear, because they want to please some
friend or because they want to seem plugged in.

Prime Minister Alain Juppe has said that the bill on one hand would provide
proper residence papers to some categories of undocumented foreigners but that
it would also give the Government the means to "tackle the very real network of
illegal immigration that exists in France."

These networks, a Government official said, make use of a 1982 decree that
requires foreigners who apply for a visitor's visa but have no proof that they
possess money or hotel reservations to get an officially stamped affidavit, a
so-called certificate of accommodation, from a French host.

The official said some hosts had asked for such certificates 40 or 50 times a
year, because they were involved in immigrant smuggling. One host, for example,
asked 42 times last year for affidavits for guests from Romania, he said.

The new bill proposes that French hosts who have foreign guests on such special
visas must inform the town hall when their guests leave the host's home.

This apparently small change in the law would permit the Government to compile
computer records on the movements of foreigners from developing countries, who
are considered the most likely to stay behind when their visitor's visa expires.

It is this minor change that has caused the outcry. Mr. Juppe, apparently most
taken aback by the calls for civil disobedience, has said he is willing to
accept amendments, as long as the objective "to fight fraud" remains intact.
Some amendments are already being discussed.

"We say we want to fight the far right, and we end up using their tactics," said
Jean-Pierre Boucher, a judge who is circulating a petition being signed by
magistrates.

National Front leaders appear to be rubbing their hands over the melee. The
Front issued a statement today saying it was calling for a national referendum
on immigration, something it apparently sees as a fair gamble.

Results published today by one independent opinion poll said 59 percent of those
questioned were in favor of the Government's immigration bill and 58 percent
opposed the calls for civil disobedience.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Town's Strange Bedfellows Unite Behind Chinese Refugees

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1129 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., Feb. 20


Jeff Lobach is a corporate lawyer with a good practice here. His wife, Cindy,
sometimes tells him, "I'd rather be called dumb, fat and ugly than a liberal."
But one of their best friends for the last three and a half years has been the
Rev. Joan Maruskin, who was flattered when Mrs. Lobach first called her a
"liberal left-wing wacko."

An unlikely cause brought them and dozens of others together in this community,
36 miles south of Harrisburg, that largely toes the hard line on illegal
immigration: the plight of 154 Chinese men brought to the county jail after a
smuggler's ship, the Golden Venture, ran aground off New York in 1993.

Mrs. Lobach has taken charge of selling the men's art: beautifully complex
sculptures (now owned by people like Dan Rather and Peter Jennings) made
entirely of toilet paper, legal pads, water and glue. Another York resident,
Sterling Showers, a divorced factory worker, visits the men with unflagging
regularity. Another, Robert Merrill, a teacher and Vietnam veteran, wrote dozens
of songs about their plight.

Members of this unusual coalition are excited these days because the last 38
detainees here are, finally, to be released in the next week. Sometimes to their
own surprise, the volunteers have overcome their differences, filing lawsuits,
attending vigils, lobbying Congress in the name of a principle they felt
transcended other beliefs that divide them and the nation alike.

"It's injustice," Mrs. Lobach, 39, said this morning, between calls from
well-wishers and people interested in buying the last of the men's sculptures.
"I think at times it's a complete embarrassment to be an American when people
are treated this way."

While the sentiment is by no means unanimous in this city of 40,000, where in
1970 the National Guard prowled the streets to stop several days of racial
unrest, support for the men has grown steadily since they arrived at the York
County Jail in summer 1993.

Two local newspapers, The York Dispatch and The Daily Record, sued to have
asylum hearings open to the public. From the very beginning, families
volunteered to take in any man who needed a home. Clothing -- though much of it
far too large -- has poured in from donors, as have job offers.

Harriet Miller, 55, who got involved with the Golden Venture refugees through
her church, is tallying the job prospects in a little notebook she keeps on her
kitchen counter. There is work at restaurants, a cloth weaving company, a
printing company, with house painters. The phone, she said, "is ringing off the
hook."

Like most of the band of volunteers, Mrs. Miller, whose husband works in the
Caterpillar plant warehouse, had never been involved in what some might call
social activism. But after her husband was appointed to her church's committee
on refugees, she took a deeper look and was touched by these men so far from
home.

Saying there had been no intention to detain the refugees for so long, the
Clinton Administration announced last week that it would release the remaining
53 illegal immigrants from the Golden Venture by March 1. (The other 15 are held
in California.)

The release does not mean that the men have been granted asylum, which many are
seeking on grounds of political or social persecution (laws that restrict
families to one child). Rather, it means that after three and a half years, they
will be free and able to work as their cases go through the legal system.

The story of York and the castaways from the Golden Venture began shortly after
the ship ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula on June 3, 1993. Ten of the ship's
286 passengers drowned and a few escaped, but the rest were caught and placed in
detention centers around the country. The county jail in York was picked, an
immigration official said, because it had space and was reasonably close to New
York.

Mr. Lobach, who was president of the county's bar association at the time,
recalled today that when immigration officials asked the association to
represent the men in their asylum hearings, he agreed, but simply because he
advocated doing a certain amount of free work.

"I never knew I was getting myself or anybody else involved in this," he said.
"It was just another pro bono case."

But as the cases dragged on -- and so many of the men had their requests denied
as the Administration struggled to decide its stance on the Golden Venture
refugees -- York County lawyers like Craig Trebilcock and paralegals like
Beverly Purcell-Church became more involved, as did the community. A weekly
vigil outside the prison started -- there have now been 182 of them -- and local
people began to house and give jobs to a few of the men who were released.

People like Mr. Showers, 59, a materials handler for the York International
Corporation, the air-conditioner and refrigeration company, began to visit the
men in prison. Mr. Showers devoted every Saturday and Sunday morning, starting
at 6:30, to talking to men he could sometimes not understand on a telephone
through a glass window in the visiting room.

"It was just something I thought I should do," said Mr. Showers.

The larger community became more aware after sculptures, made from folded paper
and a sort of papier-mache, showed up in a local bar and were auctioned off in
February 1994. Mrs. Lobach was in charge of selling the pieces, which range from
little corrugated pineapples to temples, eagles, dragons and replicas of the
ship that brought them to New York City.

In all, 16,000 sculptures have been sold, raising $135,000 for the men. Even
today, people in the area were trying to buy the now hard-to-come-by pieces --
the community's most tangible link to the men.

"I know we're latecomers but I just wanted one so badly," said Jane Markel, 55,
who drove to the Lobachs' house this morning to pick up a pineapple and a little
sailing ship for $30 each. Of the men, Ms. Markel said, "I don't feel they
should spend any time in jail."

The volunteers have become so committed that they have visited some of the women
from the Golden Venture at other prisons and have attended conferences on the
larger issue of refugees. This month, they bought a house for about $150,000 in
downtown York that, once rehabilitated, will serve as a permanent halfway house
for other immigrants released from the prison.

Meanwhile, they say they are anxious for the moment when the men are finally
released, even as they acknowledge that it may be a long time before the final
word is delivered on their asylum status.

"There is a wonderful euphoria and a great adrenalin high," said Ms. Maruskin,
53, a United Methodist minister and Mrs. Lobach's "wacko" liberal friend. "Every
time the phone rings, everybody jumps, because we wonder if they are being let
out."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sculpture from paper and glue. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York
Time)(pg. A1); Many residents of York, Pa., including Beverly Purcell-Church,
have been helping Chinese men who were jailed after their ship ran aground. Art
by the men, like this folded-paper tank, have become best sellers. (Suzanne
DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

CHINA AFTER DENG: THE DISSIDENTS;
Chinese Exiles Wonder How Wind Will Blow

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1270 words


Inside the world of China's exiled dissidents where they talk about the future,
the shape of China after the death of Deng Xiaoping has been the main topic for
years, with nearly as many opinions as dissidents.

But now that Mr. Deng has actually passed from the scene, there is something
different in the atmosphere, a sense that at least the things that could not
change as long as Mr. Deng was alive have some chance of changing now.

"The general feeling is that Deng's death opens up some chances," said Xiao
Qiang, a former physics student who is director of Human Rights in China, a
monitoring organization in New York.

"Deng allowed an economic opening but no political liberalization, and nobody
could challenge that as long as he was alive," he said. "In the post-Deng era at
least you will be able to question the policy, the timetable of liberalization,
and whether liberalization should be on the timetable."

In all, according to Mr. Xiao, some 40,000 Chinese received residency permits in
the United States after the violent crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in
Tiananmen Square in June 1989. Another 2,000 to 4,000 came to this country after
the crackdown and were granted political asylum. Of these, a few hundred have
remained active in organizations that study events in China or provide
information on human rights abuses there or campaign for greater freedoms.

Virtually all of the exiles are officially unpersons in China, and it appears
that they have little if any influence there.

Among dissidents themselves, the exiles may not enjoy the prestige of some
democracy activists, like Wei Jingsheng or Wang Dan, who remained in the country
and are serving long prison terms. But they are untainted by any involvement in
the suppression of the Tiananmen demonstrations and conceivably could return to
positions of influence should a more liberal faction come to power in Beijing,
or even if the current Government of President Jiang Zemin decides to make a
gesture of reconciliation to the many officials who lost their posts after 1989.

The large and varied community of exiles includes many aides or advisers to the
two leading purged reformers, Hu Yaobang, who died in 1988, and Zhao Ziyang, the
former General Secretary of China's Communist party, who was pushed from his
post by Mr. Deng when he showed a too sympathetic attitude toward the student
demonstrators.

In addition there are many students, now in their 20's and early 30's, who were
active in the Tiananmen demonstrations, including some who served prison terms
and have now been released.

Some of the exiles, interviewed the day after Mr. Deng's death, seemed
pessimistic about the immediate future, saying China's leaders will feel
insecure now that Mr. Deng has passed from the scene and will therefore govern
more repressively than ever before.

Others take a very different view, saying Mr. Deng's death will open the way for
an official reassessment of the military crackdown at Tiananmen, possibly a
re-emergence for Mr. Zhao, and even a future role in a democratic China for the
exiles now in the United States.

"The day of going back is closer," said Liu Binyan, the editor of China Focus, a
magazine published in Princeton, N.J. In the relatively open China of the
1980's, Mr. Liu enjoyed national fame as his country's chief investigative
journalist.

"The death of Deng marks the end of the old era, the era when everything was
decided by a few politicians," he said. "Even though Deng didn't interfere in
politics in the last few years, he was like a stone weighing on the country, and
the removal of the stone will make people more courageous in raising demands and
expressing dissatisfaction with the status quo."

Mr. Liu, who was visiting the United States when the Tiananmen crackdown took
place and remained in this country afterwards, said President Jiang is likely to
respond to popular pressure by formally reassessing the Tiananmen demonstrations
so that they will no longer be designated counterrevolutionary but a legal and
even patriotic movement.

As long as Mr. Deng was alive, any such re-evaluation would have been considered
an indirect criticism of him and therefore impossible. Now, however, a
re-examination of the events of 1989 could bring Mr. Zhao back into favor, Mr.
Liu said, not as a senior official but as a consultant to a government favoring
political reforms as well as economic ones.

Having been away from China for several years now, often struggling with a new
language, receiving news from back home via the press and telephone
conversations, the exiled dissidents are often eager to return home and may be
prone to excessive optimism about the pace of change in China in the future.

Appearing on the Charlie Rose program on public television Wednesday night, Chai
Ling, a Tiananmen student leader who fled the country after the crackdown, spoke
emotionally about her expectation that great changes will soon sweep over China
in the direction of the rule of law, a free press and other elements of
democratic government.

"Jiang Zemin could be China's George Washington," Ms. Chai said. "Or he could be
another Deng Xiaoping."

Liu Gang, a former physics student from Beijing University who spent six years
in prison after the Tiananmen crackdown, said, "Things will get better because
there's an opportunity for China to change."

Mr. Liu, who is now studying computers at Columbia University, says, like many
other exiles, that there may be a power struggle in China during which
challenges to the old order will be made. "After Deng, nobody will be able to be
a powerful dictator again," Mr. Liu said.

Some exiles, by contrast, say change for the better, if it comes at all, will be
slow. They argue that Mr. Jiang will be cautious about moving away from the Deng
legacy, in part because he himself owes his power as General Secretary of the
Communist Party to Mr. Deng. Mr. Jiang also has to contend with conservative
factions in China that would like to see greater political controls and even a
curtailment of some economic freedoms.

"In the short term, the Government is going to be more repressive," said Mr.
Xiao, of Human Rights in China. "The leaders now have fewer credentials than
Deng did and no legitimacy of their own. So they will feel insecure."

One of the highest party officials now among the exiles is Su Shaozhi, who was
the director of the Institute for Marxism-Leninism-Mao Zedong Thought at the
Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing.

Mr. Su, who left China four days after the Tiananmen crackdown, lost his post
when his patron, Hu Yaobang, was purged. He is now president of the
Princeton-China Initiative, an institute that monitors developments in China.

"With Deng's death, different factions or different forces might challenge the
Jiang Zemin regime," Mr. Su said. "The first group is the people who remember
the June 4 massacre, though they didn't dare mention it while Deng was alive.
This is the force that can unite the reformists both inside and outside the
party and press for a reassessment of Tiananmen.

"The second force," he said, "are the Marxist-Leninist fundamentalists, who have
already challenged Deng's reforms and might apply pressure to Jiang Zemin to
turn left."

Mr. Su said that Mr. Jiang is by nature a Marxist-Leninist himself, though when
Mr. Deng repudiated that wing of the party in 1992, Mr. Jiang supported his
patron. Now that Mr. Deng is dead, Mr. Su said, Mr. Jiang might be tempted to
move toward tighter political controls even as he continues to promote a more
open economy.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chai Ling -- Former student leader. "Jiang Zemin could be
China's George Washington, or he could be another Deng Xiaoping." (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 22, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

From Hope to Despair and Suicide for a Teen-Age Immigrant

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1171 words


The letters from Queens arrived in the former Soviet Union, warning of new
hardships in America, of growing hostility toward foreigners and of declining
government aid for the persecuted. But Aron Akilov did not believe the stories
his relatives told. He was fleeing Uzbekistan, where Jews were sometimes beaten
and taunted. And as he and 15 relatives packed their bags, they envisioned a
place where people worshiped freely, owned big houses and drove sporty cars.

"It is the land of opportunity," his relatives told one another. "How could life
be hard?"

But in his country of refuge, Mr. Akilov found that his extended family could
afford only one shabby two-bedroom apartment in Queens. He could not find work
because he spoke no English. Fearful that his family might be evicted, he went
from welfare office to welfare office, begging for help. It came in the form of
a six-month workfare assignment that he believed would force him to sweep parks
instead of studying English at Riverside Church, the very church where critics
of the new welfare law harangued President Clinton earlier this week.

On Monday, Mr. Akilov, a Jewish refugee, an amateur photographer and a devoted
son, hanged himself from the metal hook of his bedroom door, five months after
he first set foot in the United States. He was 19.

On Tuesday, as the President spoke in Riverside's grand assembly hall, the
language teachers in the classes four floors above were mourning the young man
who was to have graduated into a new course that very day, in a ceremony to be
held an hour after Mr. Clinton's visit.

The reasons for suicide are always complex, acts of desperation caused by a
complicated web of personal traumas. No one knows for sure why Mr. Akilov took
his life, how much it had to do with his psyche and how much it was related to
his difficult experiences since coming to the United States. But his relatives
and classmates say he was deeply depressed in recent days. They say he feared he
would never learn English and had had a painfully difficult time adjusting to a
new land, in part because his expectations were so high.

While the vast majority of refugees navigate the dizzying new world without ever
resorting to the drastic step of suicide, many who knew Mr. Akilov say that his
story reflects the painful disillusionment that many newcomers feel in New York
City.

Behind the golden door, refugees say they often find poverty, hostile neighbors
and a bewildering, shifting government aid system that now offers less financial
support and, in some isolated cases, fewer educational opportunities than it
once did.

"It's the dream of all people to come here, to be free, and to find all the
things we imagined," said Maria Vargas Escobar, a 65-year-old Peruvian classmate
of Mr. Akilov's who wept when she learned of his death. "But the reality is
sometimes a terrible shock."

The Akilov family was expecting a Hollywood version of America, the place they
learned about through television and movies, from actors like Arnold
Schwarzenegger and Jean-Claude Van Damme. As they packed their pots and pans and
black and white photographs, they envisioned a glorious new life far from their
hometown of Samarkand.

"Everyone said you'll come and you'll get a big house all to yourself," Mr.
Akilov's brother, Boris, 29, said. "And I wanted to have a car and ride through
America in my own car."

But nothing was as they had imagined. The 16-member family -- which included Mr.
Akilov's father, a retired salesman; his mother, a factory bookkeeper back home;
two sisters, and four brothers, two with wives and children -- found themselves
repeatedly turned away by landlords who insisted that they could not all fit in
a two-bedroom apartment -- the largest space they could afford.

And when the family finally found a place in a red brick building in Forest
Hills, the neighborhood where most Jews from Uzbekistan have settled, the
brothers could not find work, nor could anyone in Mr. Akilov's family. Local
grocers and dry cleaners shook their heads sadly, unable or unwilling to offer
jobs. "Wherever we went, they would say we needed more English," Boris Akilov
said.

So they determined to learn the language, first in a six-week course at the New
York Association for New Americans, the city's largest resettlement agency, and
afterward at Riverside Church, which offers an intensive six-week language
program free.

In the classrooms, adorned with maps marking the homelands of all the students,
Mr. Akilov realized he was not alone in his struggles. When he complained about
his cramped living quarters, he learned about a 39-year-old classmate from
Bosnia who could not afford an apartment, who shuttled between Manhattan and
Queens, spending one night with a brother, another with a friend.

These were friends and teachers who understood the joys of finding an affordable
flannel shirt at J. C. Penney and the embarrassment of stammering and stumbling
through the tongue-twisting sounds of a new vocabulary.

"He was such a happy young man, with such a good future," Mrs. Vargas said. "He
loved to practice his English. And we talked and took photographs and he called
me 'Mama.' "

But a couple of weeks ago, Mrs. Vargas asked him in her careful English, "How
are you?" And Mr. Akilov responded simply, "Problems," and shrugged. He could
not convey his thoughts in English.

The money that the New York Association for New Americans had provided the
family for four months had run out, and the family was struggling to come up
with the rent.  His teacher, Florence Fooden, said Mr. Akilov missed six days of
class for welfare appointments.

"So many times they went to the welfare," explained his aunt, Svetlana Yunaev.
"He was afraid that he would not be able to continue in school."

In the last week of his life, Mr. Akilov told his family that he wanted to leave
America. Then he insisted on being left alone, saying little except that he
wanted to die.

"We didn't take him seriously," Mrs. Yunaev said. "He had never done anything
like this before. We didn't know he meant what he said."

The call to workfare came around Valentine's Day. City officials say they offer
students flexible assignments, day care and transportation to allow them to
continue their education while working. But advocates for immigrants say that
those requests are sometimes refused and that Mr. Akilov feared his school days
were over.

He grew more sullen and more withdrawn until Monday night, after 10 P.M., when
he walked into a bedroom, closed the door and turned on the radio so no one
would hear his cries.

Twenty minutes later he was dead, hanging from a rope tied to the hook on the
door. And nearly a week later, his family is still trying to make sense of the
tragedy.

"I just don't understand it," his brother Boris said. "It has been hard for us,
but it is still America, the land of opportunity. I still believe anything is
possible here. I don't understand why he didn't see it the same way."

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rubin Akilov in his family's Queens apartment, before a
photograph of his brother Aron, who killed himself on Monday. He had been in New
York for five months. (Courtney Kealy for The New York Times)(pg. 23); Ilya
Akilov, with hands on knees, is surrounded by relatives and friends in his
Queens apartment as he mourns his son Aron, who committed suicide on Monday,
despondent over adjusting to life in the United States. (Courtney Kealy for The
New York Times)(pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Thousands Protest French Immigration Bill

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 182 words

DATELINE: PARIS, Feb. 22


Tens of thousands of people marched today to protest a new immigration bill that
opponents claim makes foreigners scapegoats for French ills.

When the march ended, about 300 illegal immigrants, mainly from Asia, occupied a
church in eastern Paris. A similar action by immigrants at another church last
summer became a crisis for the conservative Government. The standoff dragged on
for weeks until the police hauled off the occupiers.

The protest march came even though the Government softened the proposed law. For
many people, the bill has become a symbol of growing intolerance in France.

"This is against a state of mind that says immigrants are automatically guilty
of the problems in our society," said Bertrand Tavernier, the film director.

The police initially put the number of demonstrators at 20,000. Organizers had
predicted up to 100,000 people would join the march.

Visitors from the United States and most other industrialized countries are
exempt from the regulations. The bill is designed to curtail immigration from
former French colonies in Africa and Asia.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

INSIDE

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 80 words



Renewal Eludes Economy
Economic performance in New York City lagged behind the rest of the nation in
1996, a study says. Page B1.

Woes at Immigration Agency
A huge project to automate immigration procedures is in trouble, a House panel
was told. Page A18.


Grammy Award Winners
Love songs reigned at the Grammy Awards at Madison Square Garden. Babyface and
Eric Clapton were big winners. And Hillary Rodham Clinton was honored in the
spoken word category. Page B7.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Automation Plan Criticized

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 857 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 26


A $2.2 billion project to automate many of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service's most important tasks, including airport inspections and tracking
illegal immigrants, is in trouble, the Justice Department's inspector general
said today.

The project has been so poorly managed that it has no internal benchmarks that
would allow managers and independent auditors to judge whether it was on
schedule or within cost limits, or to otherwise quantify its progress, the
inspector general, Michael R. Bromwich, said.

"Definitive measures for tracking critical milestones over the individual
project's life do not exist," Mr. Bromwich told the House Appropriations
subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, State and Judiciary. The panel controls the
immigration service's finances.

Even without the progress markers, Mr. Bromwich said there was "general
recognition" that some programs were as much as two years behind schedule.

The bleak assessment surprised many lawmakers, who had been receiving periodic
briefings from senior Justice Department officials, who gave no hint of the
scope and severity of the problems Mr. Bromwich outlined today.

"This is an agency out of control, isn't it?" Representative Harold Rogers, a
Kentucky Republican who heads the panel, asked Mr. Bromwich after he described
the troubled project and several other problems at the immigration service.

"It has serious problems," Mr. Bromwich said.

Senior House aides said Congress has already appropriated $500 million in recent
years to upgrade I.N.S. technology, including office computers and motion
sensors along the border with Mexico, and the committee is now worried that
Congress could be pouring billions more down a hole. "We're concerned about
pumping more money into a system that has no concrete idea where it's going,"
said one aide.

The immigration service acknowledged the difficulties today, but stressed that
the agency is working hard to correct problems that might be traced to growing
pains.

"This organization has grown at an extraordinary rate in a short time, and some
of the pieces haven't progressed exactly on schedule," said Greg Gagne, an
immigration service spokesman, said after the hearing. "We're addressing
everything all at once, and that's a tough order."

Indeed, at least one lawmaker requested more details about the problems before
accepting Mr. Bromwich's assessment.

"I'm not willing to throw rocks at people yet," Representative Alan B. Mollohan,
a West Virginia Democrat on the subcommittee, said in an interview. "These are
very complicated programs. These agencies aren't born with this technological
competence."

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, has taken
responsibility for providing modern technology to an agency that for decades has
relied on paper documents.

The new technology is important largely because of the crush of foreigners
entering the country legally and illegally. The agency is particularly concerned
about the estimated 5 million illegal immigrants already living here, and the
275,000 immigrants a year the agency expects to come in illegally or overstay
their visas.

"They need these systems to do their job," Mr. Bromwich said of the agency in a
brief interview today. "The longer it takes to get them working, the longer
it'll take for significant improvements."

The inspector general said that only in the last six weeks had auditors
discovered the scope of the problem.

"Last year I testified that I was somewhat optimistic about I.N.S.'s huge
ongoing automation initiatives," Mr. Bromwich said. "This year I regret to say
that I cannot assure you that the project is on the right track."

Mr. Bromwich singled out three of the agency's larger technology programs for
criticism, including Ident, an automated fingerprint identification system used
to track illegal immigrants. The system has been installed at 80 stations along
the Southwest border and is working well at individual stations. But Mr.
Bromwich said there was no network to allow all the stations to communicate.

Another program, Enforce, is designed to replace 50 paper forms used to process
illegal immigrants with an automated system. Mr. Bromwich said the system, now
in prototype, is two years behind schedule.

Mr. Gagne, the agency spokesman, said the delays could be made up by late 1997.

A third program, Inspass, allows low-risk, foreign frequent travelers to speed
through immigration inspections at high-volume airports and border crossings.
Mr. Bromwich said the cost of the program may outweigh its benefits, and that
the system, used at Newark International and John F. Kennedy International
Airports, as well as at a Toronto airport, is also behind schedule.

"I'm not saying they won't be able to recover, but they're in a hole now," Mr.
Bromwich said in an interview.

But Mr. Gagne insisted the program was on schedule.

Not all of the agency's new technology is foundering. Mr. Bromwich praised two
of the agency's programs: new motion sensors that detect illegal U.S.-Mexico
border crossings, and an automated system that tracks refugees.


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael R. Bromwich, right, the Justice Department's inspector
general, told a House panel yesterday of delays in modernizing the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. Robert Ashbaugh, his deputy, is at left. (Amy
Toensing for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 27, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Smuggled Chinese Immigrants Released From Prison

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1107 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., Feb. 26


Smiling shyly and blinking up into a gray sky, the last 39 Chinese immigrants
held in a county prison here were released today, three years and eight months
after they swam ashore to New York from a shipwrecked smuggler's vessel, the
Golden Venture. They left carrying small cloth bags with their few possessions
but no clear word on whether they will be granted permanent asylum in the United
States.

"I feel very excited about being released," one of the men, You Yi Yun, 27,
said. "It's very difficult to stay in prison a long time."

Another immigrant, Chen Sher Dee, 22, said, "I feel very great," as he stood at
the door of a church just south of York where the detainees were taken this
afternoon.

Although one long leg of their odyssey ended when they stepped onto a white
prison bus with caged windows, their journey was far from over. The detainees,
all men, were released on parole, ordered two weeks ago after the Clinton
Administration said they had been held in prison for longer than had been
expected.

But they still face a final decision on their petitions for asylum, which leaves
open the possibility that some will eventually be returned to China. And fears
remained strong about the smugglers, who brought 286 men and women here in June
1993 at a price of up to $30,000 each.

For today, though, the men reveled in a taste of the freedom they had hoped to
gain when they first left their homes on a treacherous trip. They met with
families here who will give them homes for the next several months. Laughing in
a bathroom of the Codorus Church of the Brethren in Loganville, they tried on
new wardrobes of donated clothing. They even ate takeout Chinese food for the
first time.

In all the bustle, the men decided not to grant formal interviews to the swarm
of reporters waiting outside the church. But Mr. You, 27, who had written a
letter of thanks to President Clinton in English that he worked hard on in
prison, repeated his gratitude. "We want to say thank you to Mr. President
Clinton," he said. "He helped us a lot." But Beverly Purcell-Church, a paralegal
who worked closely with the men since they arrived at York County Prison in
1993, repeated a demand of the President she and other volunteer legal workers
have made for years that he immediately grant the men permanent asylum. "I think
America musn't lose sight of the fact that we're all from other countries and
have to leave the door open a crack," she said.

But like many of the other detainees, Mr. You said he felt no bitterness about
the years the United States held him behind bars. "Jesus Christ doesn't want his
followers to be angry with anyone," he said. "Being in prison a long time made
me learn patience and some English."

Mr. You, who is seeking asylum on the ground that he was persecuted for
resisting the Chinese Government's population control policies, said he was
relieved and thrilled to finally be out. "We are asylum seekers, not criminals,"
he said. "So we are eager to get freedom in a democratic country."

Other volunteers, a disparate group of liberal activists, religious
conservatives and abortion opponents who called themselves the People of the
Golden Vision, said the day was bittersweet because the men had been held so
long and their futures remained uncertain.

"They're out, we're gratified," said Byron Borger, 42, a bookstore owner in
York, as he brought a cake to the church with icing letters spelling out "Free
At Last." "But it should have happened three and a half years ago. This whole
thing has been a tragedy."

President Clinton's order actually applied to only 38 of the 39 men. One of
those released today was already scheduled to leave the prison because he was
granted an artist's visa, for the intricate sculptures of eagles, the Statue of
Liberty, dragons and other pieces he and others made in jail from toilet paper,
water and glue since they arrived.

In Bakersfield, Calif., the final 10 detainees from the Golden Venture remained
in prison this afternoon, although one woman was scheduled to be paroled
sometime tonight. Elaine Komis, a spokeswoman for the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said that of the California detainees, one is awaiting
deportation back to China, and the others are waiting for travel arrangements
from families who had volunteered to sponsor them.

While the volunteers in York have been critical of the immigration agency, Ms.
Komis said the agency had merely been abiding by the rules that govern asylum
cases, a process that draws fire from critics on all sides of political spectrum
for being alternately too harsh or too lenient.

"Their feeling is that we did it as punishment for these people," Ms. Komis
said. "We didn't. We were really just enforcing the law. Why did they remain in
so long? Because the proceedings took so long."

The men's advocates and immigration sponsors will continue to clash in the
coming months as the fight over their asylum drags on before a Federal judge in
Pennsylvania. Ms. Purcell-Church and other advocates believe that up to 80
percent of the men would be eligible for asylum under a provision passed in last
year's immigration law making resistance to China's one-child-per-family rules
ground for asylum.

But Ms. Komis said officials had already reviewed the cases of the handful of
applicants they felt met that criterion.

The major condition of the men's parole is that they report to local Immigration
and Naturalization Service officials once a month, though there are no
restrictions in the country where they can travel. Indeed, many released today
are expected to travel to stay with relatives in New York, Illinois, Vermont,
Colorado and North and South Carolina, among other places.

Until they do, though, the men will stay in the homes of families in and around
York, a community where opposition to illegal immigration is hearty but that has
nonetheless opened its arms to the illegal immigrants of the Golden Venture.

Don and Luanne Hunter from Harrisburg, who began visiting the men after Ms.
Hunter bought several pieces of the artwork two years ago, prepared today to
bring three men to their modest, two-bedroom split-level home.

And Richard and Evelyn King, retired schoolteachers who taught English for two
summers in China several years ago, bought new bedcovers for a room with a
private bath for Mr. You, who they visited often in prison. Mr. King said he
believes Mr. You might eventually settle in York permanently if all goes well.

"Our hope," he said, "is that he marries a nice Chinese girl, sets up
housekeeping and lives a life in freedom."

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luanne Hunter, a supporter of the Golden Venture refugees, hugs
one of them yesterday. Mrs. Hunter plans to bring three of them to her home in
Harrisburg, Pa. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 28, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New York's Chancellor Seeking Wider Access to Gifted Program

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1316 words


Saying many minority and immigrant students are being shut out of programs for
gifted children in New York City's schools, Chancellor Rudy Crew is proposing
major changes in how local districts run the programs and choose students for
them.

The Chancellor said in an interview this week that he wanted to impose a
standard procedure for getting information about the programs to parents, who
often are unaware that their children might be eligible. He also said he planned
to bar any fees for the programs or the tests used to gain admission.

And in potentially the broadest change, he said he would urge local districts to
use a range of criteria to decide which students qualify for the gifted
programs. Some districts now base admission entirely on a single I.Q. test
before kindergarten, and in many others such a test is a crucial first hurdle in
the selection process.

While the programs are run by the individual districts, Dr. Crew made it clear
that he would use his expanded powers under a state law passed last year to
press the districts to change.

"I think there are lots of children, children of color, children whose first
language is not English, who don't necessarily get access to this for all kinds
of reasons," Dr. Crew said. Either they never learn about the programs, he said,
or "they are not looked at as kids who ultimately could benefit from the
program."

"There are tremendous numbers of kids who have untapped, if you will,
giftedness," he said, "and who at this point in time might not ever be
discovered, might not ever be challenged, might not ever feel school-satisfied."

About 34,000 of the city's 744,300 elementary and middle school students are
enrolled in gifted classes, according to a recent survey by Judith A. Rizzo, the
Deputy Chancellor for Instruction.

Dr. Crew is stepping into the middle of an extremely sensitive issue. Some
critics complain that the gifted programs are a form of "tracking" that can
unfairly pigeonhole students on the basis of inadequate or biased assessments.
But for many parents -- including middle-class parents who might have the option
of private schools or moving to the suburbs -- the gifted programs are a kind of
coveted system within the system, offering the best of the city's public
schools.

In a sign of how volatile the issue can be, several local superintendents have
run into anger and protests in recent months when they proposed changes in their
districts' programs for gifted students. In District 26 in northeastern Queens,
for example, parents objected to the school board's decision to defer gifted
classes from kindergarten to first grade, while in District 3 on the Upper West
Side parents picketed the superintendent's plan to move a gifted program from
one school to another.

"It gets to class," Robert Berne, the vice president for academic development at
New York University, said of the issue of gifted education. "It gets to race. It
gets to educational philosophy. He is going after some practices that people
have protected for a long time."

The Board of Education does not keep statistics on the racial breakdown of
students in the gifted programs. But at least in some districts, the classes
have a far greater proportion of white students than the district as a whole and
proportionately fewer black, Hispanic and Asian students.

In District 2 in Manhattan, for example, 65 percent of the elementary school
children in gifted classes are white, 8.9 percent black, 8.6 percent Hispanic
and 17.5 percent Asian. By contrast, among all elementary schoolchildren in the
district, 32 percent are white, 13 percent black, 21 percent Hispanic and 34
percent Asian, according to district officials.

While teaching strategies and curriculums vary widely in the gifted programs,
they are all intended to offer more advanced material and to stress critical
thinking skills over rote learning.

The recent survey by Deputy Chancellor Rizzo found wide discrepancies among
local districts on the criteria for admission to gifted classes and how parents
were informed about the programs.

Dr. Crew said his first step would be to standardize how such information is
disseminated, though he provided no details of how the system would work. "It's
a matter of making sure that people have the information at the outset and that
they get it in a timely manner," he said.

The survey also revealed that some districts charged parents an application or
testing fee, a practice that Dr. Crew said he would swiftly outlaw. According to
the survey, one district, District 27 in southeastern Queens, charges a fee
ranging from $50 to $100; District 2, in Manhattan, and District 26 in Queens,
charge parents for the cost of an I.Q. test, and four districts require parents
to purchase materials needed for the gifted class.

"I do not like that," the Chancellor said of the fees. "This is a free public
educational system, and everything we do ought to be consistent with the spirit
of that."

Dr. Crew will also urge district superintendents not to rely on a single I.Q.
test to admit students into gifted classes, as some districts do. He said he
would recommend that children be tested more than once and that a "multiple set
of indicators" be used besides I.Q. tests.

"I think that there have been any number of those kinds of tests that have never
really, in my judgment, been the determinant of true giftedness," he said.

Over the next few months, Dr. Rizzo's office will solicit other assessment tools
from educational testers and researchers. "You don't take one yardstick and
measure all kids by that one yardstick and assume that it never changes," Dr.
Rizzo said.

James Borland, a professor at the Teachers College at Columbia University who
has been studying ways of identifying gifted children, agreed that I.Q. and
other standardized tests tap the academic potential of some, but not all,
students. He said such tests ought to be used as part of a battery of assessment
tools, like gauging how a child does on particular tasks or how quickly a child
can learn and use a new skill.

The ideas behind Dr. Crew's proposals are by no means new. For at least 15
years, the Board of Education has tried to figure out ways to broaden access to
gifted programs.

In the early 1980's, the board created a central office for gifted and talented
programs, which helped set up and obtain Federal grants for programs that used a
variety of screening procedures, including tests that measure creative thinking
and artistic talent. But without authority over local districts, the central
office could only suggest its new approach. And in 1995, budget cuts eliminated
the program.

It remains to be seen how successful the Chancellor will be in imposing his
vision on the local districts, which retain the authority to set educational
policy for their schools. But the new state law gives him the power to hire
superintendents and dismiss those whose schools perform badly, giving him much
greater leverage than previous chancellors had.

Dr. Crew was quick to insist that his proposed changes would not dilute or
undermine the quality of gifted education in the city. "Any time you start
talking about giving an opportunity for other people, particularly people who
heretofore have not had that chance, any time that happens, people always worry
about if there's going to be a watered-down program," he said. "There's nothing
that has ever been said or stood for in this administration that would suggest
that we are interested in offering a watered-down, nonquality program for the
children of this city."

In fact, Dr. Crew said that as he moved to raise achievement levels citywide, he
would like to see the academic standards now expected of gifted students become
the norm for all classes. In turn, he said, the expectations for gifted students
should be higher still.


LOAD-DATE: February 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 2, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Feb. 23-March 1;
Sloppy Bookkeeping For Immigrants

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 127 words


About 180,000 immigrants became American citizens before their checks for
criminal records were completed, the Justice Department acknowledged last week.

In addition, 10,800 immigrants with felony arrest records were naturalized even
though some may have had disqualifying murder or rape convictions.

Republicans seized on these early results of a Justice Department audit of the
1.1 million people who became citizens between August 1995 and September 1996 as
evidence that the Clinton Administration cut corners in its rush to naturalize
thousands of immigrants in time for them to vote in last November's election.
The Immigration and Naturalization Service pledged to strip the citizenship of
anyone who did not deserve it.   ERIC SCHMITT

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 5, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Mother of Slain Student Assails Deportation Delay

BYLINE: By JOHN SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 694 words


The mother of a rabbinical student killed three years ago in a shooting on the
Brooklyn Bridge asked yesterday why one of the men involved in the crime had not
been deported despite the fact that he had been in the country illegally for
seven years.

Devorah Halberstam, whose 16-year-old son, Aaron, was killed while riding in a
van with fellow students, said an immigration judge had repeatedly delayed
deportation hearings against a man who participated in the crime. Mrs.
Halberstam said Judge Gabriel C. Videla had issued 12 delays in the deportation
proceedings against the man, Hilal Mohammad.

Yesterday morning, Mrs. Halberstam was joined by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato in
calling for Judge Videla to order Mr. Mohammad's immediate deportation.

"His continued presence in this country is a mockery of our system of justice,"
Senator D'Amato said at a news conference in downtown Manhattan. "This man has
pled guilty to helping a convicted murderer. He has no place on our streets and
no place in our nation."

Judge Videla did not return a telephone call yesterday, and a spokesman for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service declined to comment on the deportation
hearings. But Mr. Mohammad's defense lawyer said that the judge was expected to
rule on the deportation as early as today.

Mr. Mohammad, a Jordanian citizen, pleaded guilty in May 1995 to hindering
prosecution after the shooting of Mr. Halberstam and three fellow students. Mr.
Mohammad owned the Brooklyn garage where the killer, Rashid Baz, fled after the
shooting.

Mr. Baz, a driver for a car service, drove to Mr. Mohammad's garage and told him
he had been involved in a shootout. Mr. Mohammad, who said he was terrified by
the gunman, asked Mr. Baz to leave his shop but never called the police. He also
threw out shell casings that he swept from the inside of the car and called Mr.
Baz's employer to take the vehicle away.

Mr. Baz was convicted after a trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan. He
received a 141-year prison sentence.

Because of his minor role in the crime, Mr. Mohammad was allowed to plead guilty
to the lowest level of felony and received probation. A spokeswoman for the
Manhattan District Attorney's office, which prosecuted the case, said yesterday
that prosecutors believed Mr. Mohammad would face deportation after pleading
guilty.

The Federal agency that administers immigration courts, the Executive Office of
Immigration Review, declined to comment on the Mohammad case. But a spokeswoman
for the agency said an average deportation hearing the New York area took 18
months.

Mr. Mohammad's immigration lawyer, Richard H. Zweig, said his client's case,
which has taken more than two years, was more complex than a typical deportation
proceeding, in part because Mr. Mohammad's wife had applied for legal immigrant
status and because three of the couple's four children were American citizens.

Mr. Zweig said that any contention that Mr. Mohammad had received special
treatment from the I.N.S. was untrue. "He certainly has not received any special
treatment or delays," he said. "In fact, his treatment has been harsher than
normally would have occurred."

Mrs. Halberstam, who has attended all Mr. Mohammad's deportation hearings, said
yesterday that Mr. Mohammad had based his claim for political asylum on his
membership in Al Fatah, the main political wing of the Palestine Liberation
Organization.

Mr. Zweig said Mr. Mohammad had acknowledged membership in Al Fatah as part of
the claim but said the asylum request was based on his decision to leave Al
Fatah before coming to America seven years ago. He said Mr. Mohammad's life was
in danger in Jordan because he had left the group after rejecting its ideology.
Of Mrs. Halberstam, Mr. Zweig said: "I am in absolute sympathy with her and I
believe Mr. Mohammad and his family are as well."

At yesterday's news conference, Mrs. Halberstam did not seem interested in the
sentiment.

"Three years ago, Ari died right before me," she said. "I vowed on that night
that the mission of my life would be to bring every single person who took part
in the murder of my son to justice."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 6, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Metro News Briefs: NEW YORK CITY;
After Guilty Plea, Man Is Told to Leave U.S.

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 148 words


A man who aided a gunman who fired on a van filled with Hasidic students in 1994
must leave the country on his own, or face deportation, a judge ruled yesterday.

The ruling, by Immigration Judge Gabriel C. Videla, drew criticism from the
mother of Aaron Halberstam, a 16-year-old killed in the attack at the Brooklyn
Bridge.

The woman, Devora Halberstam, had called on Judge Videla to deport Hlal
Mohammed, a 34-year-old illegal immigrant living in Brooklyn. Mr. Mohammed had
pleaded guilty to hindering prosecution and altering evidence by aiding the
gunman, Rashid Baz. Instead, the judge in a written opinion agreed to let him
leave the country by Sept. 5 on his own or face deportation to Jordan. Mr.
Mohammed has sought asylum so he would not have to return to Jordan.

Mr. Baz, 30, was sentenced to life in prison after he was convicted of murder
and attempted murder.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 11, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Limits on Cash Transactions Cut Drug-Money Laundering

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1106 words


For years, drug cartel money-launderers in New York have been sending up to $1.3
billion a year back to Colombia through storefront shops, many of them in
Queens, that immigrants use to wire cash home. The major restraint on this
electronic smuggling has been a Federal requirement that transactions of more
than $10,000 be reported to the Government.

But since last summer, drug busters will tell Congress today, a Treasury
Department order quietly imposing a $750-per-transaction limit on 1,600
remittance shops suspected of wiring most of the illicit money has won a small
victory in the war on drugs, sharply cutting the electronic transfers to
Colombia and forcing the cartels to return to crude old methods of smuggling
money in bulk.

Faced with the alternative of wiring fortunes in penny-ante increments or
submitting picture-identity cards with their transactions, cartel operatives
have gone back to stashing cash in coffins, bowling balls and other hiding
places, investigators said yesterday.

But the drug sleuths were waiting for them. At airports and seaports along the
East Coast, agents seized $29 million in smuggled money during the first three
months the order was in effect, compared with $7 million in the same period a
year earlier, investigators said. Meanwhile, the cartels' wire transfers to
Colombia have have all but dried up.

"The order has in effect shut down the money remitters as an avenue for
narcotics proceeds, forcing launderers to resort to bulk currency shipments,"
Andre Flores, the chief agent of the United States Customs Service on Long
Island, said in an interview yesterday. "The $750 limit is a major hurdle when
you have to move $500,000."

In an effort to persuade Congress to tighten currency restrictions and make the
Treasury limit on money wires to Colombia and other drug havens permanent, or at
least to enlarge its scope, a group of Federal and New York law-enforcement
officials are expected to testify in Washington today before the investigations
subcommittee of the House Banking Committee.

The group includes Barry McCaffrey, director of the Office of National Drug
Control Policy; Raymond Kelly, the Undersecretary of the Treasury in charge of
enforcement and a former New York Police Commissioner; Deputy Attorney General
Robert Litt of the Justice Department's Criminal Division, and Martin O'Boyle,
chief of the New York Police Organized Crime Control Bureau. Mr. O'Boyle will
appear for Police Commissioner Howard Safir, who had heart surgery last week.

They were expected to get a sympathetic hearing from Representative Spencer
Bachus, an Alabama Republican who heads the subcommittee. "When operating
unchecked, nonbank financial institutions such as money remitters continue to be
a serious money-laundering threat," he said in calling the hearings. He also
asked the General Accounting Office, the investigating arm of Congress, to look
into the remittance business for signs of money-laundering fraud.

For years, as Colombia's Cali and Medellin drug cartels reaped vast profits from
heroin and cocaine, New York became a crossroads where drugs were smuggled in
and cash was moved out. Money-laundering techniques grew more sophisticated, but
new laws, computerization and growing vigilance over cash transactions made it
harder for traffickers to move their money.

Under the Federal Banking Secrecy Act, financial transactions larger than
$10,000 -- a money wire, a withdrawal, a deposit, even a trip out of the country
with that amount -- had to be reported to the Government. That made it
inconvenient, but hardly impossible, for traffickers to move cash
inconspicuously.

A favored laundering method grew up around the hundreds of small businesses
licensed to send money abroad -- storefront check cashing places, phone centers,
telegram offices, even travel agencies, many in Jackson Heights, Elmhurst and
Flushing in Queens -- where those without bank accounts, mostly immigrants, pay
a fee to send cash to relatives abroad.

Money launderers, often working with crooked remitters, would break their loot
into increments under $10,000. To make transactions seem authentic, names and
addresses would be taken from the Queens telephone book and listed as senders,
while names from phone books in Colombia would be used as recipients. Cartel
operatives carrying phony identification would then show up at wire offices in
Colombia to intercept the cash.

While a typical legitimate transaction was $200 to $500, officials of a joint
Federal, state and local task force on money-laundering, known as El Dorado,
found in 1995 that $1.3 billion was being sent to Colombia every year through
1,600 of these small businesses. Since there were 25,500 Colombian families in
New York, each household would have to be sending $50,000 a year to account for
the vast flow, though median household income was only $27,000.

To disrupt the flow without affecting those legitimately sending money home, Mr.
Kelly last Aug. 7 signed a "Geographical Targeting Order." The measure imposes
stricter reporting and record keeping requirements for a limited time on
specific financial service providers in a defined geographic area. Such an
order, which is issued under the banking law, had been issued only twice before,
in Phoenix in 1989 and in Houston in 1991.

In this case, 12 companies with 1,600 outlets had to report transactions over
$750 and to submit copies of picture identity cards of those involved. The
restriction was not announced, but word quickly spread among drug operatives,
and the results were a precipitous drop in money wires to Colombia and a sharp
increase in seizures of cash being smuggled to Colombia, investigators said.

Between Aug. 7, when the Treasury order was signed, and Nov. 1, $29 million, in
what Federal investigators said were illicit drug profits, was confiscated at
airports and seaports and on highways and railways along the East Coast from
passengers or containers bound from New York to Colombia.

Since August, many of the storefront remitters have stopped sending funds to
Colombia, while others report drastic declines in the amounts being sent, the
investigators said. But not all the money-launderers turned back to smuggling.

Mr. Flores said that Luz Stella Lopez, 39, of 66-17 Austin Street, Rego Park, a
native of Cali who holds United States and Colombian citizenship, was charged in
October with using her two travel agencies in Flushing to launder drug money in
transfers under the $750 limit. She pleaded guilty in January and at sentencing
next Friday faces up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine.

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Ukrainian Boy Can Stay

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 129 words

DATELINE: MILLBURN


A 12-year-old Ukrainian boy who came to the United States for cancer treatment
but faced deportation will be allowed to stay for at least another year, Senator
Frank Lautenberg said yesterday.

The boy, Vova Malofienko, lived near the site of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster
and contracted leukemia. He entered the United States with his family in 1990,
and has been in remission for four years. His family's authorization was set to
run out April 10 and his supporters feared he might die if he suffered a relapse
in the Ukraine.

Immigration officials extended the family's stay on humanitarian grounds, a
spokesman for Senator Lautenberg said, adding that if Vova's father finds a job
in the next year, he could keep his family in the country.   ANDY NEWMAN

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Couple Face Charges in Murder of Nanny

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 956 words

DATELINE: EDISON, N.J., March 13


A photograph taken of Imelda Ritua soon after she immigrated to the United
States from her native Manila in October 1994 shows her in a striped jersey,
beaming. But the image belied her new life in the United States.

She had come with the promise of a job as a bookkeeper at the Fitzpatrick
Manhattan Hotel, but she never got the job. Instead, she lived an increasingly
bleak and brutal life at the home of the hotel's chief financial officer here.

On March 12, 1996, the authorities said, she was beaten to death. Her body was
found the next day, stuffed into plastic bags and dumped on a dirt berm on a
lonely country road about 30 miles north of Atlantic City.

Today, a year after the discovery, the man who had sponsored her immigration and
offered her the hotel job, Ejaz Baluch, 38, and his wife, Marcelina, 39, were in
court in New Brunswick, accused of murdering the 25-year-old slightly built
woman. Both pleaded not guilty and were each ordered held on $1 million bail.

The authorities said her immigration was doomed from the day she arrived in San
Francisco and then flew on to New York. Instead of bringing her to work at the
Fitzpatrick Manhattan Hotel, on Lexington Avenue, near 57th Street, Mr. Baluch
somehow induced her to work as a domestic live-in and a nanny for his two young
children at their modest ranch home in a quiet neighborhood of this sprawling
community.

In letters to her family in the Philippines during her 18-month stay in the
Baluch household, Miss Ritua complained of her increasingly shabby treatment,
the authorities said today. She apparently made few friends and slept on a couch
in an unheated basement room, the authorities said. Before her death, they
added, she was increasingly beaten.

Officials declined today to go into their theories about why she was slain and
the evidence they had against the couple.

Robert W. Gluck, the Middlesex County Prosecutor, said Miss Ritua died of an
extensive beating to the head and face. Some of her ribs were broken. And at the
time of her death, Miss Ritua was suffering from bronchial pneumonia, he said.

In her letters home, Mr. Gluck said, Miss Ritua had probably understated her
miseries. "We think the beatings were probably worse than what she was
describing in the letters," Mr. Gluck said. "It was clear she was being abused
over time."

In the letters, a state police detective who investigated the case, Robert
Blaker, said Miss Ritua complained about "deteriorating working conditions and
living conditions." Detective Blaker and his partner, Detective Kevin Rehmann,
spent a year investigating Miss Ritua's murder before arresting Mr. and Mrs.
Baluch on Wednesday afternoon.

The investigation had been stymied until accounts of Miss Ritua's life were
publicized last month in The Daily News in New York and in Filipino papers in
Manhattan, Detective Rehmann said. Afterward, he said, without providing
details, people came forward with information about her murder.

Detective Blaker said Miss Ritua had been taken advantage of and "that
ultimately led to her death."

"She had no voice, no one to defend her in the United States," he said. "Our job
was to be Imelda Ritua's last voice."

At the start of their investigation, he and Detective Rehmann had one small
clue: Miss Ritua's name written in ink on a laundry tag inside her blue jeans.
Initially, they said, they thought she might have been a migrant worker and they
checked camps for migrant workers in southern New Jersey. They also said they
asked the Immigration and Naturalization Service to check the name.

The immigration service, they said, found the records on Miss Ritua's entry in
San Francisco in October 1994 and Mr. Baluch's letter, written on Fitzpatrick
hotel stationery, promising her the bookkeeping job. Last May, a positive
identification of her was made after sending a description of her to the
Philippines National Bureau of Investigation.

Last June, Mr. Baluch was dismissed from the hotel job "for falsifying records
and other irregularities," a hotel spokesman, Joseph Mancini, said today.

In addition to the murder charge, Mr. Baluch was accused today of theft in
making about $20,000 in personal phone calls on his hotel credit card from June
1993 to May 1996.

During the Baluchs' arraignment today, lawyers said they had immigrated to the
United States 14 years ago, Mr. Baluch from Pakistan and Mrs. Baluch from the
Philippines. They moved to Susan Place here eight years ago. Small identical
ranch-style homes line both sides of the street. Few of those at home could
offer information about the Baluchs. One man who lived four houses away said he
had seen the couple perhaps two or three times in the past year.

A teen-ager on the street, Vaibhav Kumar, 17, recalled seeing Miss Ritua walking
the two Baluch children, 8 and 2 1/2, some afternoons while he played basketball
in his driveway.

"I don't recall seeing her talk to anyone," he said. The teen-ager, said he had
never noticed anything out of the ordinary at the home.

While some neighbors said they did not know the couple well, some said they had
two vehicles, a Land Rover and a Jaguar XJ6, that were out of character in the
neighborhood. At the arraignment, an assistant prosecutor, Robert Corbin, said
investigators believed that the couple had "substantial assets."

Detective Rehmann said Mr. Baluch was helpful at the start of the police
investigation. Soon after they positively identified Miss Ritua and learned of
Mr. Baluch's letter sponsoring her from the immigration service, they
interviewed him, and he told them that she had quit her job on March 3, 1996,
and that he and his wife took her to the train station in neighboring Metuchen.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Imelda Ritua, who came to the United States from Manila in
1994. Ejaz Baluch and his wife, Marcelina, were in court in New Brunswick, N.J.,
yesterday to face charges in the murder of a young Filipino woman. (Photographs
by Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

City of Berlin Expels 2 Bosnian Refugees, Hinting at Exodus Plan

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 573 words

DATELINE: BERLIN, March 13


Increasingly uneasy with their role as hosts to a costly population of Bosnian
war refugees, the Berlin city authorities today ordered the deportation of two
refugees to Sarajevo -- a symbolic gesture signaling what is planned as a much
greater forced exodus.

The expulsion was the first from here since some 700,000 Bosnian war refugees
fled to Germany and other parts of Europe as fighting engulfed their homeland
from 1992 onward.  And it coincided with signs of disarray among German
officials about how to handle the sharpening tensions between refugees who wish
to stay in Germany and authorities who want them to leave.

The expulsions have widespread support here. In the view of many Germans, their
country, in contrast to the United States, is not a land that has been
strengthened by waves of immigration.

"We are not an immigrant country," said Barbara John, the Christian Democrat
city official responsible for issues relating to foreigners. "So these people
should not say, 'We are the new immigrants,' because if we allow this, how can
we send other people back?"

Today's expulsions followed similar, small-scale deportations from two southern
German states late last year before the Balkan winter set in, leaving German
authorities reluctant to risk being called hard-hearted by sending Bosnians to a
chilly, uncertain fate.

In the intervening months, Germany has put increasing pressure on some of the
320,000 predominantly Muslim Bosnian war refugees to return home voluntarily,
cutting some social security payments and insisting that the overall Bosnian
refugee population in Germany will be reduced by some 80,000 before summer.

"Somewhere between 25,000 and 30,000 people" have gone home voluntarily, said
Judith Kumin, the representative in Bonn of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees.

But, according to German officials and international relief officials, at least
half of the Bosnian refugees still in Germany are Muslims whose homes lie in
what are now the Serb-controlled areas.

"Where am I supposed to go?" said Nasifa Kolar, a 50-year-old former official
from the town of Bosanski Brod, now under Serb control, who came to Germany two
years ago. "Where? Where? Where?" She spoke in a telephone conversation from the
central town of Gottingen.

"There's a panic here," said Fadila Memisevic, who works at a support center for
Bosnian refugees in Gottingen. News of the expulsions from Berlin, she said, had
left many refugees "afraid because they have no place to go and their homes are
in Serb-controlled areas."

German officials argue that with the peace agreement in Bosnia more than one
year old, refugees should return home to take part in the rebuilding of their
country. They draw a comparison with Germany's reconstruction after World War
II.

Besides, the refugees are costing German authorities some $3 billion a year in
addition to a similar amount spent on housing and accommodating people from
other countries seeking asylum here.

"There's a growing impatience that they should go home," said Mrs. John, the
Berlin city official. "Germans still remember how they rebuilt their country and
they know that it must be done or the country will not be rebuilt."

In the years since Bosnian refugees have been here, however, said Mrs. Memisevic
in Gottingen, some refugees have become partly assimilated -- the opposite of
what Germany wants to happen.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 46 words


A picture caption on Feb. 20 about couples seeking marriage licenses in New York
City in advance of changes in immigration rules misstated the given name of a
woman who was with her fiance at the City Clerk's office. As noted in the
article, she was Eva Melendez, not Eve.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 15, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

TELEVISION REVIEW;
Vying for Bottom Honors

BYLINE: By CARYN JAMES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 52; Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 544 words


There is a deliciously wicked idea behind "The Second Civil War," a satire that
takes aim at a wealth of deserving targets: the immigration issue, politics as
imagery, television news.

Set in the near and nearly believable future, this black comedy takes off when a
planeload of Pakistani orphans are about to be flown to Idaho for relocation.
Idaho's Governor decides he has had enough and announces his borders are closed.
In the White House, a slick President goes into crisis mode, which means calling
in his image consultant. And in the offices of News Net (a network suspiciously
like CNN, right down to its graphics), producers scurry to manipulate the
situation; if they can delay the plane, the showdown will take place during
their prime morning news hours.

Among other lessons about television, though, "The Second Civil War"
demonstrates that having a smart idea is not enough. These targets are awfully
easy to hit, and the film goes after them with such bluntness that the tone
becomes cautious and bland. This mildly entertaining and disappointing film
plays as if its creators didn't trust the audience to get a more subtle satire.

The film is loaded with talent, all of whom carry out their roles with utter
conviction. Beau Bridges is Idaho's married, anti-immigration Governor, who is
wildly and illogically in love with a Mexican-born News Net reporter (Elizabeth
Pena). Phil Hartman is perfect as the dunderheaded President, who accepts the
advice of his consultant (James Coburn) to model himself on President Roosevelt.
If only he could remember the difference between Franklin and Theodore, he'd be
O.K. Dan Hedaya is a News Net producer and James Earl Jones a reporter weary of
what the media have become.

There are a few moments of sharp humor. In a tiny role, Roger Corman (the Roger
Corman, king of the B movies) plays a network executive who orders the producers
not to use tape of Hispanic immigrants in their reports. "Use the last Rwandan
massacre," he says. "There are no Rwandan advertisers." That line should have
carried the satire. But in the film's typical fashion, a News Net producer goes
on to bludgeon the point, yelling, "Are we still a news organization or are we
the Home Shopping Network now?"

The film is directed by Joe Dante, whose features include "Gremlins." His
realistic approach in "The Second Civil War" might have worked if the script had
been stronger. As it is, a little of the manic energy of "Gremlins" would have
helped.

That "The Second Civil War" qualifies as a daring attempt at satire says
something about how cautious television usually is. That this supposedly cutting
satire comes with a dull edge may say even more.

THE SECOND CIVIL WAR
HBO, tonight at 9

Written by Martyn Burke and directed by Joe Dante; Barry Levinson, executive
producer; Chip Diggins, co-executive producer; Guy Riedel, producer. A Baltimore
Films Production of a Joe Dante Film in association with HBO Pictures.

WITH: Beau Bridges (Governor Farley), James Coburn (Jack Buchan), Phil Hartman
(the President), Dan Hedaya (Mel Burgess), James Earl Jones (Jim Kalia), Roger
Corman (Sandy Collins), Denis Leary (Vinnie Franco), Elizabeth Pena (Christina
Fernandez) and Ron Perlman (Alan Manieski).

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 17, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Congress Plays Word Games on Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words



To the Editor:

"180,000 Were Naturalized Without a Full Check on Crimes" (news article, March
6) suggests that the lack of controls at local photo shops can lead to
fingerprint forgeries. But you did not mention that the shops can be the only
means of obtaining fingerprints in a reasonable amount of time.

When I filed my naturalization application, I tried to get fingerprinted at the
police station in Bayside, Queens, but was turned away because of construction
in the lobby. I then went to a Chinatown photo shop that provided the
fingerprinting service.

If the Immigration and Naturalization Service wants forgery-proof fingerprint
cards, it should provide the service itself instead of relying on the photo
shops.

CHAN UK HA
Chicago, March 7, 1997


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 19, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

New Jersey Is Seen as a Model for the Success of Immigrants

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 887 words


New Jersey's immigrant population -- the fifth largest in the nation -- is more
diverse, better educated and more likely to be legal than that of the United
States as a whole. This upwardly mobile profile has helped win public support in
the state for current high levels of immigration at a time of anti-immigrant
backlash in California, which has a more impoverished, illegal and heavily
Mexican immigrant population.

The success of immigration nationally will depend in large measure on the
Federal Government's ability to create immigrant streams for the nation that are
more like New Jersey's. These are central conclusions of a research project
being released today in Washington that its director calls the most wide-ranging
case study ever done of immigration in a single state.

The project, which took 19 economists, political scientists, sociologists and
other researchers two years to complete, is presented in a 428-page book, "Keys
to Successful Immigration: Implications of the New Jersey Experience." The
Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in New York financed the $500,000 project and the
Urban Institute Press in Washington is publishing it.

Based on revenue and spending estimates in the book, the research director,
Thomas J. Espenshade, a professor of sociology at Princeton University,
estimated in an interview that a native-born household pays on average $250 a
year more in state and local taxes because of the one million immigrants who
live in New Jersey.

But New Jerseyans have focused more on the benefits of immigration than the
costs, Mr. Espenshade said. While acknowledging that the good health of the
state's economy in the 1980's contributed to the public's willingness to
tolerate rapid growth in the state's immigrant population, he says that the
special characteristics of New Jersey's immigrants were also crucial to their
acceptance.

New Jersey's immigrant population became more diverse in the 1980's (the largest
foreign-born national group in the state was Italian, accounting for 7 percent
of all non-natives). At the same time, the immigrant populations of Illinois,
California, Texas and the nation as a whole became less diverse. In 1990, 22
percent of immigrants in the United States were Mexican.

And though the proportion of immigrants from Latin America and Asia has grown
sharply since 1980, the largest share of New Jersey's immigrants is still
European (38 percent). Professor Espenshade suggested that the absence of one or
two dominant immigrant groups in New Jersey "makes it difficult to stereotype
immigrants."

"The televised notions of Mexican migrants coming across the border is not a
picture that resonates with residents of New Jersey," he said.

The high education levels of New Jersey's immigrants has helped them adapt
successfully to the job market and win rapidly rising wages in the 1980's.

Seven out of 10 Asian immigrants in the state have attended college, compared
with slightly more than 5 out of 10 Asian immigrants nationally. And 55 percent
of immigrants from Latin America have completed high school or attended college,
compared with 40 percent of Latin American immigrants nationally.

The average income for immigrant households in New Jersey was $48,100 in 1989,
just $3,000 a year less than that of native-born households.

And citing Federal immigration statistics, researchers said New Jersey has a
much smaller share of the illegal immigrant population (3 percent) than
California (43 percent), New York (13 percent), Texas (11 percent) and Florida
(10 percent). The largest group of illegal immigrants in New Jersey is from
Portugal, hardly typical of the nation.

The relatively small size of the illegal population has meant that the financial
burden on state and local government has been more modest. Using a variety of
statistical sources from the 1990's, researchers estimated that the cost of
educating 16,000 illegal immigrant children and jailing 285 illegal immigrant
inmates was $153 million, while 116,000 illegal immigrants paid $130 million in
state sales and income taxes, and state and local property taxes.

The overall impact of immigration on New Jersey has been benign, researchers
found. Kristin F. Butcher, an assistant professor of economics at Boston
College, and Anne M. Piehl, an assistant professor of public policy at Harvard
University, reviewed the economic data and found that immigrants had not damaged
the wages or employment of American-born workers -- a conclusion that echoes the
findings of other national studies.

Intriguingly, Professors Butcher and Piehl also discovered that high school
dropouts working in industries with large concentrations of immigrant workers
experienced relatively high wage growth, remarkable considering that the wages
of low-skilled workers declined generally in the 1980's.

They say they are not sure why this occurred, but it is possible that highly
skilled immigrants helped these industries expand, creating more jobs for
low-skilled Americans.

Though immigrants have generally moved smoothly into the mainstream of New
Jersey's economy, the researchers concluded that they receive somewhat more in
benefits than they pay in taxes. That is largely because immigrant households
earn slightly less than native-born people and have more children.

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "BY THE NUMBERS: A Look At Those Who Came From Abroad" shows
immigrant statistics for selected states, including New Jersey. (Source: "Keys
to Successful Immigration," edited by Thomas J. Espenshade, published by the
Urban Institute Press)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 21, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Hires Accountants for Full Review

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 773 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 20


In a sign of just how broken the nation's citizenship process is, the Justice
Department awarded a $4.3 million contract today to one of the nation's largest
accounting firms to overhaul the entire process, from testing immigrants'
knowledge of English to computerizing thousands of paper files.

The Justice Department selected Coopers & Lybrand for the job, which officials
expect to take two years. The contract is one of the largest the department has
ever awarded for consulting.

The firm faces a daunting task. More than 180,000 immigrants, including some
convicted felons, became citizens last year without complete background checks.
Republicans have accused the Clinton Administration of having rushed applicants
through the process in time to vote in November.

And the backlog in processing citizenship applications has grown so large that
many immigrants will most likely lose their welfare benefits because they will
not be able to be naturalized before the deadline in August.

"The system is much in need of repair," Attorney General Janet Reno told
reporters. "What this contract reflects is our determination to make sure that
it is done in the most comprehensive manner possible."

The basic problem for the Immigration and Naturalization Service is that its
outdated citizenship machinery is hopelessly ill equipped to deal with the flood
of applicants.

The number of applicants for citizenship increased, to 1.3 million in the 1996
fiscal year from 300,000 in the 1993 fiscal year. Immigration officials say they
expect 1.8 million applications this year.

With backlogs reaching two to four years in some cities, the immigration agency
began a program called Citizenship U.S.A. in August 1995 that aimed at reducing
the waiting time to become a citizen to six months.  The immigration service
hired 900 temporary workers, reduced some of the paperwork and asked community
groups to help immigrants fill out applications.

But in the rush to meet its deadline, the integrity of the process may have been
compromised, a Justice Department analysis has concluded.

"As the volume of cases handled continued to expand rapidly, the effort became
driven more by the need to reduce the number of backlog cases rather than a
comprehensive streamlining strategy," according to a document the Justice
Department gave to companies interested in bidding on the consulting contract.

The nine-page document, called a statement of work, outlines the history of the
problem and the contract's requirements. The document was prepared by officials
of the Justice Department and its immigration service, and it was approved by
Stephen R. Colgate, Assistant Attorney General for Administration. Mr. Colgate
will oversee the redesign.

Congressional Republicans expressed skepticism that the consultants could
correct the problems.

"The award of this contract looks like a signed confession that the
naturalization process is in disarray," said Lamar Smith, Republican of Texas
and head of the House Subcommittee on Immigration.

Harold Rogers, Republican of Kentucky and head of the House Appropriations
subcommittee that controls the immigration service's finances, said: "It's a sad
commentary on the management of the I.N.S. that we have to pay millions of
dollars to an outside consulting firm, because I.N.S. has been incapable of
making long overdue fixes to the naturalization process."

Independent experts also voiced caution. "I'd certainly applaud anything that
could help the naturalization process become more efficient and more timely,"
said Jeanne A. Butterfield, executive director of the American Immigration
Lawyers Association. "But I'm suspicious of another study, because a large part
of what would cure the naturalization problem would be additional resources for
timely fingerprint checks and I.N.S. interviews."

Consultants from Coopers & Lybrand, which beat out five rivals for the contract,
will review many aspects of the program, including technology, offices,
organization and culture, as well as coordination with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation.

The consultants will have until Sept. 30 to draft a plan. The changes are
scheduled to be carried out through the end of next year, and the team would
monitor the changes until March 1, 1999.

A partner at Coopers & Lybrand who is leading the team, Stan Hawthorne, said the
firm had worked on other immigration projects for the service for at least two
years.

The agency is trying to correct some flaws. In one change immigrants will now be
naturalized only after the F.B.I. checks their fingerprints for past arrests.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEW JERSEY VOICES

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 322 words


"His fight for fatherhood was all he had. He loved his children desperately
because his illness turned love into an obsession. He couldn't tolerate
separation of his children and his self. His desperation drove him over the
edge."

"If we put the less-than-perfect to death, we are Avi Kostners. We are no better
than him."

CATHY L. WALDOR, lawyer for Avi Kostner of Teaneck, who may face the death
penalty for killing his two children

"Always, he's the victim. He killed because of his anger and his hate for the
family that was responsible for taking his family away."


JOHN HIGGINS, prosecutor in the case

ON IMMIGRATION

"The televised notions of Mexican migrants coming across the border is not a
picture that resonates with residents of New Jersey."

THOMAS J. ESPENSHADE, a professor of sociology at Princeton University, on
immigration into the state

ON MENINGITIS

"People are afraid you can catch it from walking around. I mean, can you really
catch it that way?"


KEVIN WRIGHT of Paterson on the meningitis outbreak that has killed three
children

"They should quarantine these buildings until they can put a stop to this. I
don't want to let my kids outside, even in the hallways."


ARLENE JACKSON of the Alexander Hamilton Housing Development, where two of the
children lived

"I want the shots for all of us. Can't wait anymore."

DOROTHEA JOHNSON, another resident of the complex

ON FIREFIGHTING

"They've been keeping us busy over this week. The other day, we were out here
until 2:30. By 6:30, I have to be home to drive a truck."


TIM SUDOWSKI, volunteer captain of the Plainsboro Fire Rescue Squad, on a series
of suspected arson fires

ON WRESTLING

"With the help of the Undertaker, I now will put this tax to rest, and may it
rest in peace. This is an intimidating moment."


GOVERNOR WHITMAN on deregulating televised wrestling events

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos. (Associated Press; Dith Pran/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Books in Brief: Nonfiction

BYLINE: By SUSAN SHAPIRO

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 4; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 211 words



 THE JOURNEY HOME
 Jewish Women and
 the American Century.
 By Joyce Antler.
 Free Press, $27.50.

Sonya Abuza, an overweight immigrant in Hartford who had been deserted by her
husband, later became famous as a "Gypsy of the footlights" named Sophie Tucker.
Henrietta Szold, the eldest of five daughters of a distinguished Baltimore
rabbi, established Hadassah, the largest women's Zionist group in the world, in
1912. Ruth Gruber, who at 20 was declared the youngest person in the world to
hold a doctorate, flew a secret mission for President Franklin D. Roosevelt
during World War II to help 1,000 refugees find asylum in Oswego, N.Y. Goldie
Mabovich Meyerson was born in Kiev, was raised and married in Milwaukee, then
moved to Palestine in 1921, where, known as Golda Meir, she became Prime
Minister of Israel. These are among the more than 50 Jewish women chronicled in
"The Journey Home." Joyce Antler, who teaches American studies at Brandeis
University, blends history, anecdote and biography to emphasize the achievement
of these women, who attempted to satisfy family, God and their own dreams at the
same time. The book illuminates their struggles for identity as well as the
sexism and anti-Semitism they encountered.   Susan Shapiro

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 23, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Books in Brief: Nonfiction

BYLINE: By DIANE COLE

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 2; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 202 words



 The Vulnerable Observer
 Anthropology That Breaks Your Heart.
 By Ruth Behar.
 Beacon, $22.

The era of the objective observer of other cultures is past, the anthropologist
Ruth Behar asserts in "The Vulnerable Observer." A sense of attachment to the
people under study is not only a natural and altogether human outcome of
entering into the lives of a population; the subjective feelings stirred
actually yield a more humane and sympathetic understanding of another people's
customs. Allowing oneself to be open in this way leads Ms. Behar to bring her
personal experience as a Jewish Cuban-American to bear on her more formal
studies of rural communities in Spain and of the lives of immigrant Cuban women
living in the United States. Ms. Behar, who teaches anthropology at the
University of Michigan, was born in Cuba to Jewish Russian immigrants; her
family left when she was almost 5 years old. She describes herself as "a woman
of the border: between places, between identities, between languages, between
cultures, between longings and illusions, one foot in the academy and one foot
out." It is a forceful mix that infuses her vision with insight, candor and
compassion.   Diane Cole

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 24, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Tapes Show Nixon Plan For Raid of Newspaper

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 219 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 23


President Richard M. Nixon ordered immigration raids on The Los Angeles Times
and a tax audit of its publisher in 1971 because he was furious over an article,
recently released White House tapes show.

"I want this whole goddamn bunch gone after," Mr. Nixon told his chief of staff,
H. R. Haldeman. "I also want Otis Chandler's income tax."

Mr. Chandler, who was the newspaper's publisher from 1960 to 1980 and is on the
board of its parent, the Times Mirror Company, said last week that he did not
know of any raids on the newspaper or of any audits of himself or his family.

Several of Mr. Nixon's conversations, laced with profanities and ethnic slurs,
are on tapes the National Archives has opened for inspection. The American
Journalism Review cites the tapes in its April issue.

They show that Mr. Nixon was incensed by an Oct. 6, 1971, article that said 36
illegal immigrants had been seized in a raid on a food-processing company owned
by Romana A. Banuelos, who had been recently named by Mr. Nixon to be Treasurer
of the United States.

In a phone conversation the day after the article was published, Mr. Nixon
ordered Attorney General John N. Mitchell to have the immigration agency raid
the newspaper and to check Mr. Chandler's gardener. "I understand he's a
wetback," Mr. Nixon said.


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 26, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Kidnap Victim Recalls Brutality by a Gang Seeking Ransom

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 563 words


A 30-year-old Chinese immigrant testifying yesterday in a fatal-kidnapping trial
told in harrowing detail how he had been beaten, stabbed and tormented by
kidnappers in Brooklyn who shot him and left him for dead when his family could
not meet their ransom demands.

He also told how he was forced to watch his abductors, reputed to be members of
a Chinese gang, chop off the finger of another kidnapping victim -- later
strangled -- after her family, too, failed to meet their money demands.

The immigrant, Lin Xiu Fu, who spoke through a translator about his five-day
ordeal in 1995, testified in Federal District Court in Brooklyn on the opening
day of the trial of Peng You Zhong, who is charged with participating in the
kidnapping of Mr. Lin, the kidnapping and strangling of Gao Liqin and a third
kidnapping.

The case has drawn attention in part because until recently Mr. Peng faced the
possibility of the death penalty if convicted of involvement in the fatal
abduction. But the trial is also expected to illuminate the horrific ordeals
that law enforcement authorities say Chinese gang members have inflicted on a
number of illegal Chinese immigrants whom they have kidnapped for ransom.

Many gangsters see the immigrants as vulnerable because their illegal status in
the United States makes them unwilling to seek the help of the police. Victims'
families in China have been ordered to pay tens of thousands of dollars for
their relatives' release.

The authorities say this kind of kidnapping is different from abductions in
which illegal aliens are held for ransom after they fail to pay what they owe to
the smugglers who brought them to the United States.

Mr. Peng, 25, could have faced the death penalty if convicted of participating
in the abduction that ended with the strangling. But earlier this month,
Attorney General Janet Reno, reversing a decision she made in 1996, said the
Government would not seek capital punishment.

Ms. Reno acted in response to a renewed appeal by lawyers for Mr. Peng, who
argued that it would have been unfair for him to face execution when two men
charged with him had already pleaded guilty in return for terms of life in
prison. The lawyers held that even if Mr. Peng were convicted in Ms. Gao's
death, his role would have been "subordinate" to the roles of the two serving
life sentences.

But yesterday, Mr. Peng's trial lawyer, Ephraim Savitt, emphasized to the jury
his basic argument: that Mr. Peng had not been involved in any of the crimes
charged in the case, including the fatal abduction of Ms. Gao, also known as
Zhang Ko Lai.

"Don't rush to judgment," he urged the jurors before testimony began.

But a prosecutor, Catherine Palmer, an assistant United States attorney, told
them that Mr. Peng had played a leading part in turning an apartment in the
Midwood section of Brooklyn, where the three victims were held after being
separately abducted in three boroughs, into a "true house of horrors."

Mr. Lin said he had arrived in the United States in 1992 after his family
borrowed $30,000 to pay smugglers -- so that he could "make a better living for
the whole family." He said he was abducted near the Brooklyn garment factory
where he worked by Mr. Peng and three other men, who later demanded that his
family in China ransom him for nearly $50,000 -- a demand the family could not
meet.



LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 26, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

'Give Us Your Fit'

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 68 words



To the Editor:

In view of new restrictions on legal immigration and stringent rules for United
States citizenship ("U.S. Says Mental Impairment Might Be a Bar to Citizenship,"
front page, March 19), it's time to update the message on the Statue of Liberty:
"Give us your rich, your fit and healthy masses yearning for influence in
Washington."

JOHN SANBONMATSU
Berkeley, Calif., March 19, 1997

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island Myth

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 111 words



To the Editor:

Neither John Sanbonmatsu's letter ("Give Us Your Fit," March 26), the
sentimental vision of immigration supporters or the Emma Lazarus poem carved on
the Statue of Liberty give an accurate picture of the immigration policy of the
United States, which has never been to request or even favor the tired and the
poor.

Ellis Island, where most immigrants once landed, included a hospital and a
quarantine. Potential immigrants who were unhealthy or likely to become a public
charge were subject to repatriation, with the steamship line that conveyed them
responsible for their return passage.

WILLIAM E. WANDER
Brooklyn, March 26, 1997

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 1, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

After a 'Kafkaesque' Ordeal, Seeker of Asylum Presses Case

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2035 words


Edwin Bulus says he fled to America almost two years ago to escape torture at
the hands of Nigeria's military dictatorship after his brother was charged with
treason for plotting a coup. A 1996 State Department report describes the death
sentence meted out to Lieut. Col. Happy Bulus, a punishment later commuted to 25
years, and the conviction of coup plotters' families for "antiregime"
activities.

But Edwin Bulus, 28, has not found freedom in the United States. Rather, he has
been detained by immigration authorities since his arrival at Kennedy
International Airport in May 1995. After a melee shut down the Esmor detention
center in Elizabeth, N.J., where he was first held, Mr. Bulus said immigration
officials threw away his identity documents and transferred him to the Union
County Jail in New Jersey.

In the county jail, Mr. Bulus said, guards stomped on him, forced him to kneel
naked for hours, pushed his head in a toilet, left him to sleep naked on a bare
mattress and subjected him to racist invective. Twelve guards were subsequently
indicted for beating and degrading 25 Esmor detainees, including Mr. Bulus, and
are expected to be tried later this year.

"There is no easy way to freedom," Mr. Bulus said on Saturday in a telephone
interview.

He has been treated for depression since a friend told him during his first
month in detention that his father had been tortured and died in police custody
in Nigeria and that his mother died shortly after being released from police
custody, according to his medical records from Esmor.

A month ago, immigration officials denied Mr. Bulus's plea that he be paroled
while his asylum case is pending. In a two-page letter dated Feb. 24, Fran
Holmes, acting district director of the Philadelphia office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said his use of false documents to enter the country
showed that he might abscond if released. She also said he would be moved to
another detention center better able to treat his mental condition.

Ms. Holmes said yesterday that it would not be appropriate for her to comment on
his particular case. "I have no recollection of that case," she said. "We see a
lot of them."

Today, Mr. Bulus may have another chance at release. He is scheduled for an
interview with an immigration officer trained in asylum law in York, Pa., at the
York County Prison, the eighth place he has been detained. At the interview,
usually conducted soon after an asylum seeker arrives in this country, the
officer will consider whether to recommend that he be paroled, his Philadelphia
lawyer, Susan G. Toler, said.

"Maybe the I.N.S. is looking for a way to do the right thing," said Joan
Friedland, a lawyer with the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center who has
represented Mr. Bulus while he has been detained for the last five weeks at the
Krome detention Center in Miami. Mr. Bulus was to be transferred to York from
Miami yesterday, his lawyers said.

Nicholas Rizza, refugee coordinator for Amnesty International U.S.A., called the
immigration service's handling of Mr. Bulus's case "Kafkaesque squared."

While people caught entering the country with false papers are typically
detained, advocates say Mr. Bulus's case is unusual because of the length and
harshness of his detention and because his asylum claim centers on documents he
said had been thrown away by immigration officials.

An immigration judge denied Mr. Bulus's request for asylum in September 1995,
citing his inability to prove his identity. This September, the Board of
Immigration Appeals, the highest administrative tribunal in the immigration
system, granted Mr. Bulus a stay of deportation after examining new evidence of
his identity submitted by Ms. Toler, including photo identity cards and
affidavits from a cousin and a friend attesting to his identity.

The board is now considering whether to reopen his asylum claim.

Mr. Bulus's hearing occurs as the immigration service prepares later this month
to carry out a new law adopted last year that will give the service greater
authority to quickly send asylum seekers who are believed to have weak claims
back to their home countries.

Under the new law, asylum seekers who enter the United States with false
documents or with no documents will be returned to their home countries unless
they can convince an immigration officer or an immigration judge within nine
days of their arrival that they have a "credible fear" of persecution.

Under the old law, asylum seekers were admitted to the country and afforded
extensive appeal rights to the Federal courts, though the immigration service
had the authority to detain them throughout the process.

"An agency that has so much discretion already and that has abused its
discretion so consistently is rewarded under the new law with even more
discretion," said Ms. Friedland, one of Mr. Bulus's lawyers. "Now the I.N.S.
will be able to send people home, not just lock them up."

But Russell A. Bergeron Jr., a spokesman for the service who was not familiar
with Mr. Bulus's case, said the new law has enough safeguards to insure asylum
seekers will be fairly treated. "There's a system of checks and balances so the
credibility of an applicant is not decided by just one person," he said. "A
qualified officer will decide on the applicant's credibility and that is subject
to review by a supervisory officer and an immigration judge."

Mr. Bulus's account of his flight from Nigeria and his detention in the United
States was pieced together from court records, medical reports and interviews
with Mr. Bulus and his lawyers. This is his story.

Drawn to Student Union At University of Lagos

He was the youngest child of Jubril and Kudirat Bulus. Jubril, a retired police
officer, managed the family's rubber and cocoa farm in Kogi State. A brother,
Happy, 17 or 18 years older than Edwin, had gone into the military.

At the University of Lagos, Edwin majored in political science and became active
in the student union. "I became very inquisitive about political ideologies like
those of Jean Jacques Rousseau and Thomas Jefferson," Mr. Bulus said. "Power
corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutely. In Nigeria, the military has
usurped the people's right to chose who rules them."

Mr. Bulus said he became active in pro-democracy groups after Gen. Sani Abacha
took power in a coup in June 1993, following the annulment of the Presidential
election. Mr. Bulus also kept up regular visits to his brother, a military
officer.

In February 1995, Mr. Bulus learned that his brother and other officers had been
arrested and charged with plotting to overthrow the Government.

In March, military officers went to his home to arrest him, but he had fled to a
village near Lagos, where he stayed until May 1995. His parents were arrested in
his place.

When asked at his asylum hearing in September of that year, why he ran away, Mr.
Bulus said, "I'm afraid that the Government is bent on genocide against my
entire family. I'm afraid that, like others, I will be killed."

Mr. Bulus left Nigeria on May 6, 1995, traveling on a resident alien card that
was not his. He said he also had in his luggage the real proof of his identity,
his student photo identification cards and a birth certificate. He flew through
Zurich to the United States, arriving on May 8.

The next day, he called a Nigerian friend in Canada, who told him that his
father had died in custody and his mother was hospitalized. Three days later, he
learned his mother had died, too.

Mr. Bulus fell into a depression. After a psychiatric evaluation, conducted at
Esmor, Dr. L. Hankoff wrote: "The patient is a tall, pleasant young man who
attempts to supply the interviewer with information despite the many unhappy
events which have befallen him. He sits with his hands in his lap and his head
bent, making some eye contact, but often apathetic and appearing dejected."

Mr. Bulus himself said in an interview that he feels personally responsible for
his parents' deaths. His father had warned him to stay out of politics.

"I feel guilt for having dragged them into a situation where they had to face
pain, torture, the brutality of the regime," he said. "I just pray they rest in
peace."

In June 1995, when Esmor was taken over by detainees, Mr. Bulus, groggy from the
medications he was taking for depression, woke confused. His hands were cuffed
behind his back, but he managed to salvage an envelope that contained his
lawyer's telephone number and his identity documents.

"One of the I.N.S. guys in plain clothes took them from me and threw them in the
trash," Mr. Bulus said. "He said, 'You're not leaving here with any documents."
Several asylum seekers detained at Esmor have made similar claims that their
documents were destroyed that morning, but immigration officials have said they
saw no one stripping detainees of their papers.

From there, Mr. Bulus was transferred to Union County, where he said he was
severely beaten. "I wept that day," he said. He said guards ordered detainees to
strip naked, then told them to kneel on the floor and threatened to kill them if
they moved. He can no longer pray on his knees, he said, because of the injury
he sustained then.

"It was typical of the military brutality in my country," he said. "I can't
believe it happened in the United States. I felt the United States was a
human-rights-loving country. That was the blackest day of my life."

In the more than a year since then, Mr. Bulus has been moved in and out of a
variety of detention centers and county jails that contract with the immigration
service "like a bag of rice," he said.

An immigration judge in Elizabeth, Nicole Kim, denied Mr. Bulus's asylum request
on Sept. 13, 1995, saying he should have been able to obtain the documents
necessary to prove his identity since the Esmor disturbance in June 1995.

Mr. Bulus said recently that it did not occur to him that the documents would be
so crucial an issue. He said he and his lawyer at the time, Winston Tucker,
never spoke after Esmor until the day of the hearing.

After the testimony, the judge said: "I have observed the demeanor and testimony
of the applicant and I do not have a ready assessment of the applicant's
credibility. It should be noted that the applicant was very detailed as to the
dates of events taking place."

Judge Kim denied his request, but said the case might well need to be reopened
if Mr. Bulus produced I.D. documents.

With New Evidence, Call to Reopen Case

In September, Mr. Bulus's new lawyer, Ms. Toler, asked the Board of Immigration
Appeals to reopen his case, citing new evidence of his identity, including photo
identifications of Mr. Bulus from the University of Benin and the Campaign for
Democracy and a Nigerian passport, provided by a law firm in Benin City,
Nigeria.

In a letter to Ms. Toler, the law firm said Mr. Bulus had applied for a passport
"several months before he was declared wanted by the Nigerian Military
Government." It had been held up because of his anti-government activities but
finally was issued, the letter said.

In her repeated requests to the Philadelphia immigration office, Ms. Toler
included a letter from a psychologist, Jay Carter, who was treating Mr. Bulus at
the Berks County Prison. He wrote in February that Mr. Bulus's mental condition
was deteriorating and warned that "further delay in his treatment will most
likely result in irreparable damage to his mental functioning."

On Feb. 24, Mr. Bulus was awakened and told he was being transferred yet again
to Miami, far from his lawyer, Ms. Toler. He said he was not told why. He was
handcuffed and a 10-pound weight was put on his leg.

After weeks of protest by his lawyers and Amnesty International, Ms. Toler said
yesterday that immigration officials told her that Mr. Bulus was being moved
back to Pennsylvania for the parole interview.

Mr. Bulus said he still dreams of death, of talking to his parents at the
morgue, of seeing his brother tortured, of being in a grave. "I'm still going
through stress," he said. "I sometimes think why not just end it. But I believe
in the philosophy that when there's life, there's hope."

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 2, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

His Defection Reportedly Foiled, Chinese Reporter Is a Suicide

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 1


A Chinese journalist committed suicide here last weekend just days after being
recalled from his post in Washington, where, one colleague said, he had been
discovered preparing to defect.

The journalist, Wei Guoqiang, 47, was the Washington bureau chief of the New
China News Agency, China's state-run news organ. The agency also collects
information overseas for the Chinese Government.

Chinese news organizations, including Mr. Wei's own agency, have made no public
mention of his death, but it was confirmed by several of his colleagues.

Mr. Wei, whose name is pronounced way gwoh chyahng, was a well-known figure
among foreign journalists in Washington. He had traveled with President Jiang
Zemin of China during his European tour in 1995, visiting Finland, Hungary and
Germany.

In August 1996, Mr. Wei attacked America's human rights record in a lengthy
dispatch, saying that Congress, by passing a new immigration law, "expressly and
unmistakably kicks children of illegal immigrants out of schools and into the
streets, thoroughly depriving them of the rights to receive education."

In a commentary last December, he accused the United States of being "more eager
to practice power politics" and "seek hegemonism" since the collapse of the
Soviet Union.

Most recently, Mr. Wei wrote a critical review of "The Coming Conflict With
China," a book by two former American correspondents in Beijing -- Richard
Bernstein, now a New York Times book critic, and Ross H. Munro -- that aruges
that China is pursuing a strategy to dominate its neighbors.

Mr. Wei's colleagues at the news agency in Beijing were reluctant to discuss his
death today, but confirmed that he had committed suicide over the weekend and
that a memorial service is planned for Thursday. Some of them said that Mr.
Wei's appearance in Beijing in late March had been unexpected since he had been
in the Chinese capital in February and he usually returned to the agency's
headquarters only once a year.

"I heard he was back to discuss something with his superiors, and I was
surprised because I had just read one of his articles from Washington," one
colleague said.

Another colleague said that Mr. Wei had been discovered late last month by a
co-worker in Washington preparing documents to support a political asylum
application for himself, his wife and his 17-year-old daughter. His daughter was
said by one colleague to be in the United States, but the whereabouts of his
wife was not known.

After Mr. Wei's defection activities were discovered, the colleague said, he was
immediately recalled to Beijing, where he was said to have been under close
watch at home by a relative. Over the weekend, however, when Mr. Wei was briefly
left alone, the colleague said he hanged himself in the bathroom of his
apartment.

As a top correspondent for China's state news agency, Mr. Wei had been on
intimate terms with the operations of the Chinese Embassy in Washington and the
broader information apparatus that serves the Chinese leadership. The news
agency receives, translates, condenses and provides analysis of news gathered
from all over the world and presents it daily to China's leaders. The agency is
also reported to provide journalistic "cover" overseas for officers of the
Ministry of State Security, China's intelligence agency.

The New China News Agency was one of the Chinese agencies that began to focus
greater attention on the United States Congress last year, apparently with the
goal of improving Beijing's ability to communicate its position on a range of
issues under contention between China and the United States.

Many Chinese diplomats and journalists serving abroad must leave their wives and
children behind, in part to guarantee that the officials or reporters will not
defect. Mr. Wei's case was unusual because his wife also traveled extensively
abroad as the manager of a Chinese company based in Singapore.

Mr. Wei was a graduate of Beijing's Foreign Languages University and received a
graduate degree in journalism from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences.

He was a specialist on American affairs and had served his first tour in
Washington from the late 1980's to 1993, after which he returned to Beijing as
the deputy director of the international news division.

He was appointed Washington bureau chief in early 1996.




LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 3, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

2d Saudi Held by Canada Cleared in Bombing

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 482 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 2


While international attention has focused on a man who Canadian officials
believe took part in the bombing of an American military barracks in Saudi
Arabia last June, another Saudi held in the same Ottawa prison is also accused
of being a terrorist.

Fahad Shereri, 21, was arrested at the international airport in Ottawa last
December. At an immigration hearing last week Canadian officials said he
belonged to a terrorist group and had engaged in a terrorist act, although they
did not specify where or when the act occurred.

It was initially reported that Mr. Shereri was linked to the bombing in Dhahran,
Saudi Arabia, last June that killed 19 American servicemen. But an Canadian
immigration official, Dianne Toikko, said Mr. Shereri is not now a suspect in
that attack.

The man Canadian officials say was involved in the Saudi bombing is Hani Abdel
Rahim al-Sayegh, a 28-year-old Saudi who was arrested in Ottawa on March 18 and
whom Canada is seeking to deport as a threat to national security.

Both men are being held at the Ottawa-Carleton Detention Center, but Canadian
officials say the two cases are unrelated. Neither Mr. Sayegh nor Mr. Shereri
faces criminal charges in Canada.

But a lawyer representing one of the men thinks that the arrests show that
Canadian intelligence agents have been watching the movements of Saudis in
Canada for some time.

When Mr. Shereri was stopped on arrival at Ottawa airport on Dec. 6 he made a
request for asylum. But immigration agents found various weapons in his
belongings, including a steel chain or garrote, an 11-inch Chinese knife and
martial arts fighting sticks.

Canadian agents also found an empty shoulder holster and material written in
Arabic that they said they believed to be a manual on assassination.

Mr. Shereri's lawyer, Douglas M. Baum of Ottawa, said most of the objects were
either decorative, like the knife, or had been used by his client in studying
karate.

Mr. Shereri said he left Saudi Arabia to escape arrest for his nonviolent
opposition to the Saudi Government.

Mr. Baum said an agent of the Canadian Intelligence Security Service was at the
Ottawa airport when Mr. Shereri was arrested last December, indicating that his
client had been under surveillance.

He believes that was because Mr. Shereri had worked with Saudi relief agencies
in Afghanistan and Bosnia. He also stopped in England before coming to Canada
and there met several times with Mohammed al-Masari, the head of a dissident
Saudi organization in London.

Although Mr. Masari has said he advocates a peaceful transition in Saudi Arabia,
he was quoted in an interview after the June bombing as saying, "We believe the
existence of Americans on the Arabian peninsula is against Islamic law."

Officials said that if Mr. Shereri's appeal for refugee status is denied, he
would probably be sent back to Saudi Arabia.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 4, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Metro News Briefs: NEW YORK CITY;
Convicted Kidnapper Sentenced on the Spot

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 135 words


A reputed Chinese-gang member was convicted last night of taking part in the
fatal ransom kidnapping of a Chinese immigrant and the abductions and
brutalization of two other immigrants. In an unusual move, the judge sentenced
the man to life in prison on the spot.

Judge Edward R. Korman of Federal District Court in Brooklyn suggested that
there was no point in following the usual procedure, in which the sentence is
imposed weeks after the jury's verdict. He noted that Federal law made a life
sentence mandatory for the fatal kidnapping, leaving him no discretion in
sentencing the convicted man, Peng You Zhong, 25.

Mr. Peng, who was found guilty after six hours of jury deliberation, had
testified that although he had been at the scene of the kidnappings, he had not
participated in them.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Palestinian Held by U.S. Now Faces Legal Limbo

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 782 words


Israel's announcement last week that it was suspending an extradition request
for Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook, a leader of a militant Palestinian group who has
been in a New York prison for nearly 22 months, put American prosecutors in an
embarrassing spot and Mr. Abu Marzook himself in a legal limbo.

Israel removed the only legal stake that Federal prosecutors, who had pursued
the extradition request on Israel's behalf, had in the case. And when Federal
prosecutors no longer had a reason to detain him, that raised the possibility
that he could have been freed.

Israel had wanted to try Mr. Abu Marzook, the leader of the political wing of
Hamas, on charges including murder and conspiracy in connection with 10
terrorist incidents.

At a hearing in Manhattan Federal Court set for Monday, a judge is expected to
return Mr. Abu Marzook to the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. I.N.S. officials held him when he arrived at Kennedy International
Airport on July 25, 1995, because his name appeared on a watch list.

The I.N.S. began its own administrative proceeding, which was interrupted about
two weeks later by the Israeli extradition request, which caused Mr. Abu Marzook
to be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Federal court.

If Mr. Abu Marzook is handed back to the I.N.S., that long-suspended immigration
process will resume and his legal status will have come full circle.

Known as an exclusion proceeding, its purpose is to determine if Mr. Abu Marzook
is a terrorist or has provided support for terrorist activity. This would
provide grounds for barring him from the United States and deporting him.

Under the law, he could be sent to the country of his birth, the country of his
nationality, the country he had most recently left or another that might accept
him.

He was born in Gaza and carries a Yemenite passport, and his flight to New York
originated in the United Arab Emirates. Jordan is considered the most likely
country to take him.

But Michael Kennedy, Mr. Abu Marzook's lawyer, who tartly labeled the legal
quandary "this real-life Lewis Carroll meets Franz Kafka tragedy," said Mr. Abu
Marzook had already agreed to be excluded -- on July 28, 1995, during the
original exclusion proceeding before an immigration judge.

This means that, so far, Mr. Abu Marzook has called the authorities' bluff
twice.

In January, after fighting the extradition request in Federal District Court in
Manhattan for a year and a half, he agreed to go to Israel. That decision
apparently flummoxed the Israelis and led to the suspension of their request
last week. They had been concerned about the strength of their own legal case
against him as well as the possibility that Hamas might retaliate with acts of
terrorism and that peace talks with the Palestinians would be disrupted.

Unless a diplomatic solution is worked out that would allow him to go to Jordan
on an expedited basis, Mr. Abu Marzook, a legal United States resident whose
wife and six children live in Virginia, would next find himself facing a New
York immigration judge on the original exclusion proceeding -- one that his
lawyer is trying to declare moot.

Mr. Abu Marzook may well have volunteered in 1995 to be excluded, as Mr. Kennedy
argues, but according to Russ Bergeron, a spokesman at I.N.S. headquarters in
Washington, only an immigration judge has the power to rule on his status. And
the I.N.S.'s position is that the immigration judge postponed that decision by
turning the case over to the United States Attorney, in response to Israel's
extradition request.

How long a renewed exclusion proceeding could take is unpredictable. Mr. Kennedy
warned that a sticking point might be what it is that Mr. Abu Marzook concedes
by agreeing to be excluded from the United States.

The I.N.S. is pursuing his exclusion based on a 1990 law that refuses admission
to people engaged in or giving material support to terrorist activity.

Mr. Abu Marzook says he is not a terrorist. As leader of the political wing of
Hamas and one of its top fund-raisers, he insists that he has no involvement
with terrorism, and that the money he has solicited has gone to charities like
kindergartens and mosque kitchens.

The Israeli authorities have said some of the money collected for charitable
organizations filters to Hamas's military activities.

Mr. Kennedy said American officials could try to prolong Mr. Abu Marzook's
detention by saying he cannot exclude himself from the United States without
acknowledging that he is a terrorist.

"Then the burden is on the Government to prove that he is, and they'll take as
long as they can to prove that," Mr. Kennedy said.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 6, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

BOOKEND;
A World Away, A Generation Later

BYLINE: By Morris Dickstein;  Morris Dickstein is Distinguished Professor of
English at Queens College.

SECTION: Section 7; Page 35; Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 1478 words


Books that last, books that still matter, change from generation to generation.
Two decades after it first appeared, "World of Our Fathers," Irving Howe's
classic history of Jewish immigrant life on New York's Lower East Side, is at
once the same book and subtly different. Its world is more remote, with few
survivors still among us, yet more immediate, because of the bustling new
immigration today. This is a paradox worth exploring. What kind of book was it,
and how did Irving Howe of all people come to write it? How has it changed,
especially for young people encountering it for the first time?

As history, "World of Our Fathers" remains invigorating -- exhaustively
researched, wonderfully readable, unfailingly humane, an elegy for a lost world.
Where others waxed lyrical, Howe is measured, searching and evocative: his book
is a cultural anthropology spanning the Old Country, the difficult voyage, the
shock of arrival and resettlement, the crowded tenements and long working hours,
the struggle to build labor unions, the settlement houses and synagogues, the
matchmakers, dance halls and Catskill retreats, and the culture of Yiddish --
from poets, novelists and intellectuals to theatrical divas and popular
entertainers.

Howe was an unlikely yet inevitable person to give us an exemplary picture of
the immigrant experience. He himself emerged from the cultural clash between
generations. Like most children of immigrants, he worked hard to put the ghetto
behind him. He was a political writer and broad-gauged literary critic, not a
historian, but he was possessed by the historical imagination as it touched his
own experience. Born in 1920, only a few years before immigration was cut off,
he grew up on the proletarian streets of the Bronx, not on the Lower East Side.
When his father's grocery business failed in 1930, the family was forced to move
to a poorer neighborhood, and he learned a lesson about class he never forgot.
His conversion to socialism at the age of 14, he thought, had liberated him from
merely tribal solidarity. Like other New York intellectuals who came of age in
the 30's, he set sail as a citizen of Western culture, not strictly a Jewish
writer.

The social and literary issues that attracted him had no special ethnic accent.
But the war and the Holocaust conspired to remind him of his origins, and he
turned to Yiddish literature, then virtually unknown among American readers, as
a way of coming home. In an endless stream of critical essays and finely
conceived anthologies, he helped bring this dying literature into the cultural
mainstream. For Howe, "World of Our Fathers" was the next step in a circuitous
journey that brought him back to Judaism, not as a religion but as a secular
culture that he struggled to preserve.

Since the 1890's, many had written about the Lower East Side -- as muckrakers
exposing urban blight, as tourists exploring the Lower Depths or as celebrants
gilding the lily of their humble beginnings. Howe had little interest in the
pathologies of a "culture of poverty." Unlike the Harry Goldens and Sam
Levensons of the 1950's, he was immune to Borscht Belt nostalgia. Instead, he
recaptured the tumultuous, not always attractive humanity of the Lower East
Side. "World of Our Fathers" was his real autobiography, evoking the world of
his actual father, to whom he had been "a son with a chilled heart" (as he said
ruefully in "A Margin of Hope"), and the immigrant language and culture he once
truculently scorned.

Often the embattled polemicist in the 1950's and 60's, Howe mellowed in his work
on Yiddish literature, striking a balance between filial piety and critical
discrimination. This mellower Howe is the voice we hear in "World of Our
Fathers," fair to a fault about everyone from nativist foes of immigration to
snobbish uptown Jews. A few critics accused him of leaving out religion -- the
immigrants' synagogue and yeshiva world -- others of ignoring the "world of our
mothers." Neither charge is quite fair, though religion figures in the book
largely as "secular messianism," the translation of religious vision into social
hope. His story embraces men and women alike, but the women who are most vivid
are social activists like the labor firebrand Rose Schneiderman, Lillian Wald of
the Henry Street Settlement or Belle Moskowitz, the brains behind Alfred E.
Smith, New York's progressive Governor. Howe's emphasis on socialism, organized
labor and Yiddish culture, if slightly disproportionate, feeds the
autobiographical power of the book. He projected his deepest loyalties onto a
reading of the past.

This is one reason the book reads differently today than it did 20 years ago.
Younger readers can be more disconcerted by their forebears' impassioned
socialism and unionism than by their threadbare poverty. Taking the safety net
of the welfare state for granted, they may not understand, first, how
working-class socialism emerged from the actual experience of poverty, nourished
by ingrained Jewish notions of social justice, and, second, that its egalitarian
idealism shared little with the bureaucratic socialism that collapsed in the
1980's.

Despite the waves of renewed immigration in recent decades, a historical rift
has opened up between us and the players in Howe's story. Howe's initial
readers, who made the book a surprise best seller, were second-generation Jews,
the strivers who had not become intellectuals, socialists or union activists but
had made it in America. They had migrated to the suburbs after the war, built
lavish temples and supported worthy charities, only to see their well-educated
offspring turn against their values. In "World of Our Fathers" they were able to
reconnect to a world of struggle and idealism they had long repressed. The book,
finding its way into virtually every Jewish home, provided them with an
emotional catharsis.

The children and grandchildren of that generation, though, are more likely to
turn to Israel, to religion or to searing testimonies about the Holocaust as a
way of exploring their Jewish identity. Irving Howe knew very well that he was
writing at the end of something -- the end of socialism, the end of Yiddish, the
end of what he called "Jewish secularism," a rich but transitional culture that
developed in the latter part of the 18th century.

In a lecture at Hunter College in March 1993, just six weeks before he died,
Howe, depleted by a long, draining illness, intoned a kaddish for the world
whose history he had written: "The immigrant experience, which until recently
has been the major substance of American Jewish life, is receding into memory. .
. . Nostalgia grips us all, yet cannot provide the bread or wine of a common
future. For what is fading is not just the sweatshops and tenements -- we are
well rid of them. . . . What is also fading is the pale bloom of Yiddish." But
he reminded his audience that this was merely a trend, a probability: "The long
term is . . . long. In the short run, the mixture of shared experience and
common memory may be enough." From humor and cuisine to liberal politics, the
immigrant experience has left vivid traces that still affect the way we live
now.

In his inimitable style of serious joking, Howe once remarked that Israel had
become the religion of American Jews, with the Holocaust as its liturgy. Yet
both of these issues preoccupied him in his last years. And when I saw him in
synagogue at the end of Yom Kippur, just before the gates of judgment were said
to swing shut, I knew I was witnessing the death of socialism, or at least of
socialism as a self-sufficient secular faith. Irving Howe's scrupulous book,
written with the assistance of Kenneth Libo, is a collage of texts and memories
that almost restore a half-forgotten time. But it also exposes our braided link
to the larger ethnic mix of contemporary life.

Today's multicultural America, with its new immigrants, its Babel of languages,
its resurgent nativism, its terrible pockets of poverty, its Darwinian faith in
the free market and its ruthlessly concentrated corporate power, bears a
striking resemblance to American society before World War I. Many of the
positions staked out in today's cultural debates -- pluralism, universalism,
bilingualism, cultural nationalism, identity politics -- were rehearsed during
the first decades of the century. Today's outcry against immigrants is as
familiar as the uncritical celebration of ethnic ties. Younger Jews,
intermarrying in large numbers, caught between tribalism and assimilation yet
finding themselves excluded from the rainbow coalition of today's minorities,
could do far worse than to study the forces that helped shape their present
lives. In "World of Our Fathers," Irving Howe turned his own reckoning with the
past into a richly textured lesson for posterity.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 8, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Tortured Immigrants Endure a Catch-22

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 220 words



To the Editor:

Although the immigrant fleeing torture in Nigeria is engaged in a "Kafkaesque"
ordeal as he seeks asylum (front page, April 1), at least he is being given the
opportunity for a hearing. In the future, survivors of torture fleeing to the
United States may be sent back to their torturers without having their claims
evaluated fairly.

According to the new immigration regulations, asylum-seekers arriving in this
country without valid travel documents must prove within 48 hours that they face
"credible fear of persecution" or be summarily deported. Torture survivors often
do not have valid travel documents because it is frequently the perpetrators of
the violence who control access to such travel permits.

As a physician who examines survivors of torture, I appreciate the difficulty
that torture victims have recounting their traumatic experiences. I can only
imagine the psychological devastation at being required to recount these events
upon arrival, in a foreign language. Refugees' reluctance to tell their
experiences under such circumstances is understandable.

Unfortunately, such reluctance can be mistaken for a lack of "credible fear."

ALLEN S. KELLER, M.D.
New York, April 3, 1997

The writer is the director of the Bellevue/NYU Program for Survivors of Torture.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 9, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island Decision Revealed New York to Be Rightful Owner;
Magnet for Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 153 words



To the Editor:

In "Dividing Ellis Island" (editorial, April 3), you claim that New York, as the
historic gateway for immigrants to the United States, has a better claim to
Ellis Island than does New Jersey. But from the Germans and Irish of the 19th
century to the Koreans and Asian Indians today, the Garden State has been as
much a magnet for immigrants as the Empire State.

The census of 1900, taken at the height of the golden age of immigration, found
that 22.9 percent of New Jersey's population was foreign-born, close to New York
State's 26.1 percent. In fact, the gritty city of Passaic, N.J., had a higher
proportion of foreign-born in 1900 than did New York City. Perhaps the state
with the best historic claim to Ellis Island is North Dakota, which in 1900 had
a population that was 35.4 percent foreign-born -- the highest in the nation.

MARC MAPPEN
New Brunswick, N.J., April 7, 1997

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 10, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Redefining German Citizenship

SECTION: Section A; Page 28; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words


The key to German identity is found in the blood. A German is not someone born
in Germany, but someone born to ethnic German parents anywhere in the world.
Many other nations define citizenship the same way, but Germany's Nazi past
gives the concept a different resonance. Now a remarkable new debate in Germany
may change the German concept of citizenship.

Germany's Social Democrats and Free Democrats would like to grant citizenship to
anyone born in Germany. Some would allow dual citizenship for those with
foreign-born parents. Several members of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's Christian
Democrats join them, but the proposal is opposed by most of his party, and by
the Bavarian partner in his conservative coalition, the Christian Social Union.
They argue that Germany, unlike America, is not a country of immigrants. Parties
further to the right put it differently: Germany is an ethnic German state.

That, however, is no longer the reality. Eager to separate itself from its Nazi
past, Germany has accepted twice as many asylum-seekers as all other nations in
Europe combined. The influx slowed considerably with a harsh law limiting
political asylum in 1993, but today 1 person in 12 living in Germany is a
foreigner.

Germany's political culture has not caught up. While hundreds of thousands of
Germans have demonstrated against neo-Nazi arson and the assaults and murders of
foreigners, millions more treat foreigners as intruders. Recently, Germany has
drawn world disapproval for deporting Bosnian child refugees. Neither the
Government nor civic organizations have significant programs to help foreigners
integrate. The country still has no law regulating immigration.

The debate about liberalizing Germany's citizenship laws is politically
permissible because a new law would not admit new immigrants. It would apply
only to people born in Germany. One in five new babies born there is not German.
The largest group of foreigners, about two million, are ethnic Turks. Beginning
in the 1960's, Germany invited what it called "guest workers" from Turkey to
take undesirable low-paying jobs. But these guest workers' children, who pay
taxes and often feel more German than Turkish, can become German citizens only
with great difficulty. They cannot hold dual citizenship either, as Germany does
not admit the concept.

The debate is all the more remarkable given the anti-immigrant mood gripping
Europe and the United States. Germany, along with many other countries, has
changed its laws to make immigration more difficult. Germany is also
experiencing unemployment of more than 10 percent, the highest since World War
II.

Redefining Germanness by birth instead of blood could help encourage Germans to
accept foreigners. It would provide relief for millions of people who are now
destined to live in a country where they will never fully belong. On a Continent
where ethnic conflict is common, a statement that ethnicity is no measure of
citizenship would be particularly welcome.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 11, 1997, Friday, Late Edition - Final

2 Members of Palestinian Group Get U.S. Legal Resident Status

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 331 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 10


In a move that could be a turning point in a 10-year effort by the Federal
Government to deport eight advocates of Palestinian sovereignty, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service has granted legal resident status to two of the
defendants known as the L.A. Eight, lawyers in the case said today.

The two men, Aiad Barakat and Naim Sharif, received notice that the immigration
service had approved their applications for amnesty under a 1986 law, allowing
them to become permanent resident aliens. All eight defendants have been living
and working in the Los Angeles area since they were initially charged in 1987
with being affiliated with the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a
terrorist group.

"I hope it means that the I.N.S. is going to change its stance vis-a-vis the
entire case," said David Cole, a lawyer for the group. "I hope this will be
extended to the entire group."

Judge Stephen Wilson of Federal District Court here has issued repeated
injunctions blocking deportation proceedings against the eight, finding that
they had carried out peaceful activities like raising humanitarian aid and
selling newspapers, but had not advocated terrorism themselves and had been
selectively targeted for prosecution. In 1995, a Federal appeals court upheld
that view and ruled that noncitizens had the same First Amendment rights to
speech and association as citizens.

In January, Judge Wilson again blocked the Government's latest argument, that a
section of the new immigration law passed last year required the judge to
surrender jurisdiction. But the Government has appealed that ruling, and
deportation proceedings remain pending against the group.

Still, Mr. Cole said, the immigration service's decision to grant resident legal
status required a finding that the two men, who like the rest entered the
country legally years ago, satisfied the grounds for admission to the United
States, and would thus undermine any further efforts to deport them.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 16, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Business Travel;
New automated system for speeding travelers through immigration will be tested
in Bermuda.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 871 words


AT the World Travel and Tourism Council meeting in Washington today and
tomorrow, I.B.M. will demonstrate an automated system for speeding passengers
through immigration checkpoints at airports. Called Fastgate, the system will
undergo testing beginning next month at Bermuda International Airport; by fall
it is expected to be in North America, Europe and Asia.

Comparing travelers' fingerprints, hand geometry or voice prints, the
A.T.M.-like devices are also said to confirm that travelers do not pose a known
security threat. "The minimal level immigration check is higher than what is in
place at airports today," said Jeff Mortner, I.B.M.'s worldwide solutions
manager for Fastgate. And because travelers using Fastgate are expected to clear
immigration checkpoints in no more than 15 seconds, on average, police and
immigration officers will have more time for other matters.

After the test period, travelers will be able to enroll in the Fastgate system
through participating airlines or credit card companies. This will require them
to provide their names, addresses, dates of birth and passport numbers, as well
as to record their fingerprints or voiceprints at a participating airport.

Once enrolled, a passenger will be able to insert a card into a biometric reader
and answer a few questions on a touch screen. Fastgate will then retrieve the
passenger's information from the I.B.M.-managed data base and compare the
biometric information to verify identity. The system will then seek confirmation
from various Government data bases that there are no security alerts for the
traveler. As for any privacy concerns, I.B.M. said it "employs state-of-the-art
security to protect the data base, but travelers should remember that most of
this information is already known to the card issuer, and participation is
purely voluntary."

Airline Update

Next Tuesday or Wednesday, the 10-millionth passenger will fly the Delta
Shuttle, which along with the US Airways Shuttle flies hourly between New York
and Washington and New York and Boston. The lucky passenger will receive two
free round-trip tickets to any Delta Air Lines destination, as well as hotel
accommodations and assorted bagatelles. Millions more passengers have actually
flown the shuttle, which was formerly owned and operated by Pan Am. But as Pan
Am slid toward bankruptcy, and eventual liquidation, it sold the shuttle to
Delta in 1991 and Delta began operating it in September of that year. The 10
million consist only of passengers aboard the shuttle under Delta's ownership.

On June 1, Delta will add two nonstop flights each Saturday and Sunday between
Atlanta and Orlando, Fla., the busiest route on Delta's worldwide system, then
on July 1 will add three more on both days. They will be in addition to the 14
daily flights the carrier currently flies between those cities. While demand for
the increased service exists, the carrier said it was able to provide it by
deploying some planes that usually fly business routes during the week but are
less in demand on weekends.

South African Airways is offering a special fare for travel through June 15 and
from Aug. 1 through Sept. 30. Valid between either New York or Miami and Cape
Town, the $2,004 fare is good for two passengers, a $600 saving off the $2,598
cost of two regular economy tickets.

Continental Airlines will begin daily nonstop flights between Houston and
Honolulu on Aug. 1, and daily nonstop service each Thursday and Sunday between
Houston and Nassau, the Bahamas, beginning June 26.  Introductory fares from
Houston and surrounding states, as low as $398 round trip, are on sale through
April 30, and are good for travel to Honolulu through Nov. 20 and to Nassau
through Aug. 31.

Delta and Varig Airlines of Brazil recently decided to end their code-sharing
arrangement on June 14, the day before Delta begins daily service from
Cincinnati via Atlanta to Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro -- and three months
before Varig and UAL's United begin their code-sharing partnership on Sept. 26 .
Delta and Virgin Atlantic will end their code-sharing program this summer, after
which Virgin, a unit of Virgin Group, will hook up with Continental. Meanwhile,
Delta, which already has 10 code-sharing partners, is awaiting United States
Government approval for three more: Air France, All Nippon Airways and China
Southern Airlines.

Hotel Update

The Hanoi Daewood Hotel -- which boasts almost 450 rooms and suites, fax and
computer capabilities, a health club and an indoor driving range with putting
greens -- has become the first hotel in Vietnam to join the Leading Hotels of
the World, the reservations and marketing alliance of more than 300 luxury
hotels in about 70 countries.

Travel Acquisition

Carlson Wagonlit Travel said yesterday that it had agreed to acquire Travel
Agents International, a Florida operator of franchised travel agencies, for an
undisclosed amount.

Carlson Wagonlit, based in New York, is a travel agency franchiser with annual
revenue of $13.3 billion. It is a joint venture of the Carlson Companies of
Minneapolis and the Accor Group of Paris. Travel Agents International has annual
sales of $600 million.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 22, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Ex-Official At Office For Aliens Is Sentenced

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 487 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 21


A Federal judge sent the former third-ranking Immigration and Naturalization
Service official in the agency's Newark office to jail for three and a half
years today for accepting cash and gifts in exchange for helping people enter
the country illegally.

John F. Lonergan, 50, of Belmar, N.J., was convicted last November of five
counts of falsifying documents to help the clients of an immigration- document
broker enter the country. The main witness against Mr. Lonergan in his two-week
trial was the broker, Nagy Khairallah, who became a Government informant and
told how, over a four-year period, he gave him television sets, expensive
luggage, Mont Blanc pens and cash for an Aruba vacation.

District Court Judge Alfred M. Wolin said he could have sentenced Mr. Lonergan
to four years and three months in prison but had chosen the lower end of the
range allowed under Federal sentencing guidelines because it was a first
offense.

Still, he had rejected pleas by friends, family and lawyers for Mr. Lonergan
that he be given probation instead of a prison sentence, saying that the public
interest and deterrence demanded a tough sentence. The evidence, the judge said,
showed that the official had perjured himself when testifying on his own behalf
and had showed little remorse for his crimes. A lighter sentence, he said,
"would send the wrong message to people who work at the I.N.S."

"You're not a stupid man and inherently you are not an evil man," said Judge
Wolin as he spoke to the short gray-haired defendant. "But somewhere along the
road you stumbled in the quagmire of corruption.  You were the gatekeeper at the
borders of our country and it became a vehicle for self-aggrandizement."

A 25-year veteran of the immigration agency, Mr. Lonergan was deputy assistant
director of the Newark office at the time of his indictment. He supervised 200
people involved in issuing work, financial assistance and citizenship documents
to immigrants, the admission of immigrants at Newark International Airport and
the detention of illegal immigrants at Federal detentions centers.

His indictment came at a time when the agency and the Newark office in
particular were under a cloud because of allegations of mismanagement and lying
to Congress, and failure to adequately supervise a privately run detention
facility in Elizabeth where in 1995 detainees erupted in violence over
conditions and long delays in hearings on their asylum claims.

The agency's continuing shortcomings and the problems of immigration generally
were on Judge Wolin's mind today as he noted in his sentencing that part of the
"cruel irony" of Mr. Lonergan's crime was the long lines of people outside the
I.N.S. offices just across the street from the courthouse. The judge said those
people did not have the influence of the broker who paid Mr. Lonergan lavishly
so that his clients would not have wait in line.



LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

BOARD OF REGENTS IS URGED TO TEST IN FIVE LANGUAGES

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1375 words


Grappling with the thorny issue of how to educate a growing population of
immigrant students, New York State's Education Commissioner is proposing that
the state's college-preparatory Regents exams be translated into four foreign
languages for the first time.

The exams have long been used to determine a student's college preparedness and
to award state-financed merit scholarships, and under Commissioner Richard P.
Mills's plan to raise academic standards, passing grades on the Regents tests --
in English, mathematics, social studies and science -- will soon be required for
all students to graduate from high school.

Mr. Mills said that offering the tests in the state's most common immigrant
languages -- Spanish, Haitian Creole, Russian and Chinese -- would insure that
students with limited skills in English had a fair chance to demonstrate their
knowledge. Many educators hailed the proposal, and some even suggested that it
did not go far enough.

But, reflecting the long-running national debate over bilingual education,
others said it would be a disservice to students, who would inevitably have to
master English in order to attend college or succeed in the workplace.

That debate has taken on greater significance since the Clinton Administration
began preparing for national standards and tests earlier this year. A national
math test, to be given to eighth graders starting in 1999, will be offered in
Spanish, Federal officials said.

In making his proposal, Mr. Mills has walked a fine line. While he would allow
students to take the math, social studies and science exams in their native
languages, he would still require them to pass the English Regents exam.

He said that he would insist on the English Regents exam because "it is going to
be very, very hard for them to succeed in this country without English."

In the past, to earn a high school diploma, students had to pass a set of much
less difficult competency tests in those same subjects. Mr. Mills said he feared
that students with limited English skills might score poorly on the math,
science and social studies exams not because of a lack of knowledge but because
of language problems.

"I don't want to lower our expectations of them," he said. "I also have to make
sure that whatever we require is fair."

For more than a decade, the state has offered the less-rigorous competency tests
in 30 languages, but to date the only Regents exam offered in another language
has been Math, Level 1, which can be taken in Spanish.

The proposal, which the Board of Regents will discuss next week requires the
board's approval. Chancellor Carl T. Hayden said that while he favored
translating the required Regents exams, he was wary of creating a system that
would deter youngsters from mastering English.

"I would like to see a serious evaluation of their language skills before that
option is made available," he said. "I'm apprehensive about instituting
something which takes away the incentive to learn English."

About 6 percent of the state's 800,000 high school students are classified as
having limited proficiency in English, but more than 16 percent of New York
City's high school students fall into that category. Whether special provisions
should be made for them is one of the most contentious issues state education
officials are facing as they begin to implement the new, more difficult
graduation requirements approved by the Regents last April.

Mr. Mills has been a strong advocate of higher standards, but he said that he
did not want to impose mandates that could push students with limited English
out of the school system. Already, such students in New York City have higher
dropout rates and generally take longer to graduate than their peers who are
proficient in English.

"For me, it comes down to making sure that youngsters become literate in
English, and I want the standards to be honored," Mr. Mills said. "It is like
solving a math problem with many variables. It's just hard to keep it all in
your mind when you say, 'I want them to learn English. I want them to meet high
standards. I want the test to be fair.' It becomes very complex."

The Commissioner's plans drew mixed reactions from people on both sides of the
debate on bilingual education.

Diane Ravitch, a former assistant education commissioner in the Bush
Administration and a national leader in the call for higher standards, argued
that the translations would place at a disadvantage students who ultimately have
to survive in an English-speaking society.

"What makes more sense," she said, "is that students in New York State high
schools learn English and be able to take Regents exams in all of these subjects
in English. They will not be able to take a math class in college in Russian."

Frank Borzellieri, a member of Community School Board 24 in Queens, described
the proposal as another instance of "pandering, catering to radical ethnic
groups."

Bilingual education advocates praised the Commissioner's proposal, but some
pressed for special English proficiency tests, in lieu of the English Regents
exam. James J. Lyons, executive director of the National Association for
Bilingual Education, a Washington-based advocacy group, argued that it would be
unreasonable to expect newcomers and native-speakers of English to pass the same
rigorous English exam.

Karen Crowe, a spokeswoman for the New York City Schools Chancellor, Rudy Crew,
said that he supported the proposal so long as students could take the English
Regents exam anytime during their high school career.

Officials at the City University of New York, where more than 20 percent of the
undergraduates already take at least one English-as-a-Second-Language course,
are watching the proposal with interest, but they declined to comment.

Ken Goldfarb, a spokesman for the State University of New York, welcomed the
proposal, saying the English Regents requirement would insure that more students
were able to read and write well in English. The city university system and
community colleges in the state system have long admitted any student who earned
a high school diploma.

This year's class of ninth graders will be the first to have to pass the English
Regents exam, with a score at or above the 55th percentile, in order to
graduate. The math, science, American history and world history requirements
will be phased in over the next four years. State education officials estimated
that it would cost about $350,000 a year to translate the tests, and they
anticipated no additional costs.

Commissioner Mills said that he would consider other accommodations for students
with limited English skills taking the English Regents exam, such as granting
them more time. He also said he planned to offer glossaries in nine languages
that students could use for the math Regents this fall. The languages are
Spanish, Chinese, Russian, Haitian Creole, Korean, Bengali, Burmese, Vietnamese
and Urdu.

Ramon C. Cortines, the former New York City Schools Chancellor who is now an
acting assistant secretary at the United States Department of Education, said
that New York would be the first state to translate college-preparatory exams.
He said that other states were confronting the issue.

"There are people who feel the predominant language of the land is English," he
said, "and that is what children should be tested in. I feel children should be
assessed for what they know."

The impact of the proposed translations on colleges and universities is unclear.
The change could, for instance, allow more students with limited skills in
English to enter four-year colleges, instead of starting at community colleges,
said David R. Merkowitz, a spokesman for the American Council on Education,
which represents colleges and universities.

He noted that the City University of New York had a long tradition of preparing
students of various ethnic and class backgrounds to enter the economic and
social mainstream.

"It's a recognition that we have an enormously diverse society," he said.
"Higher education has become a much more important and standard entry into the
American middle class. And there is a recognition that it doesn't pay for this
society to create obstacles."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 26, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Reno Names 2 to Shape Up Citizenship Process

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 656 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25


Exasperated with the Immigration and Naturalization Service's handling of the
nation's citizenship process, the Justice Department today assigned one of its
top troubleshooters and a former Comptroller General to straighten out the
program.

Robert K. Bratt, a senior administrator in the department's criminal division,
will oversee the immigration service's citizenship operations, over the
objections of Doris M. Meissner, the agency's Commissioner. Charles A. Bowsher,
the former Comptroller General, will serve as an unpaid part-time adviser to
Mrs. Meissner.

The moves come one week after an independent audit found that agency employees
had largely ignored sweeping safeguards the immigration service put in place
late last year to prevent the granting of citizenship to criminals.

Two House and Senate committees are to hold hearings next week on the
stewardship of the program, which has come under sharp criticism from some
Republicans for naturalizing 180,000 immigrants last year without proper
criminal background checks.

The problems have fueled accusations that the service has mismanaged one of its
most important functions and will be unable to cope with the record 1.8 million
citizenship applications that it expects to receive this year.

"I am committed to taking any and all steps necessary to insure the integrity of
nation's naturalization program," Attorney General Janet Reno said in a
statement.

Ms. Reno dispatched Mr. Bratt over the objections of Mrs. Meissner, who argued
in discussions with the Attorney General this week that the addition of Mr.
Bowsher, along with a reorganization of the service's senior managers, would
suffice, Congressional and Justice Department officials said.

As Comptroller General, Mr. Bowsher headed the General Accounting Office, the
investigative arm of Congress, from 1981 to 1996.

The Attorney General and her top aides disagreed with Mrs. Meissner, contending
that the immigration service also needed a strong manager from the outside to
come in and straighten out the citizenship program. The service is part of the
Justice Department.

"What this says is that I.N.S. does not have its house in order, particularly
its naturalization house," a senior department official said today.

Mrs. Meissner said in a statement today, "I look forward to working with them
both."

In turning to Mr. Bratt, Ms. Reno is relying on a 19-year Justice Department
official who has, in his most recent jobs, helped direct the training of a new
police force in Haiti, developed training programs for new judges in Russia and
Eastern Europe, and established Government procedures to compensate
Japanese-Americans interned during World War II.

"Bratt is an extremely competent manager," said a House aide who has frequently
criticized the immigration service and its handling of the citizenship program.
"This shows they're going the full mile to deal with this."

Mr. Bratt's first task will be to make sure that new policies put in place last
November to prevent the service from granting citizenship to criminals are
followed.

An interim report by the accounting firm KPMG Peat Marwick found that of the 23
regional and district immigration offices that auditors visited, only 8 were
complying with the new procedures to any extent.  Some offices had no records of
training clerks on the new procedures. Many clerks apparently ignored new
checklists and improperly filled out fingerprint forms that the Federal Bureau
of Investigation needs to conduct criminal background checks.

In short, Mr. Bratt's job is to make the existing system work as efficiently as
possible.

The Justice Department has selected another accounting firm, Coopers & Lybrand,
to overhaul the entire citizenship process, from testing immigrants' knowledge
of English to computerizing thousands of paper files.

Those changes are scheduled to be drafted and carried out by the end of next
year.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 30, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Common Sense in Testing

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 398 words


Over the last two years New York State's Education Commissioner, Richard Mills,
has mounted an ambitious campaign to stiffen graduation requirements for the
state's 2.7 million public school students. Last year the Commissioner did away
with a high school diploma system that relied on soft courses and a weak state
examination. All students will now be required to take the Regents High School
Examinations, which leads to the coveted Regents diploma.

The Regents examinations are commonly used to determine preparedness for college
and to assess qualifications for state-financed merit scholarships. To give a
fair chance to new immigrants and non-native speakers, Mr. Mills has proposed
that most of the examinations be offered in foreign languages as well as
English. This is a common-sense plan that deserves support from both educators
and the general public.

As a port of entry for vast numbers of immigrants, New York already delivers
instruction in Spanish, Chinese, Russian, Arabic and a host of other languages
until children learn English. Many children need between three and six years
before they can perform academically in English. In kindergarten, 14 percent of
the state's children are in bilingual instruction; the number falls to 5 percent
by sixth grade. But as older immigrant children arrive, the percentage of
students not proficient in English rises to 9 percent at the start of high
school -- where students will soon be required to pass Regents exams in English,
mathematics, social studies and science in order to graduate.

Mr. Mills wants to keep the English test as it is, but proposes offering the
others in foreign languages, so that immigrants have a chance to prove what they
know despite language deficiencies. He rightly fears that students with limited
English might score poorly on the math, science and social studies exams not
because of knowledge gaps but because of language problems.

Some critics argue that the plan would allow students to slip by without
learning English, which will be vital for success in college or on the job. But
requiring mastery of the English examination before graduating should mitigate
that risk. The greater value is that the testing plan will allow schools to sort
out math and science wizards -- even while the children have little or no
English. On balance, the testing plan is a good one.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 30, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

I.N.S. Appointment

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 124 words



To the Editor:

An April 26 news article misstates the position of Doris M. Meissner, the
commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, regarding the
appointment of Robert K. Bratt as executive director for naturalization
operations.

Mrs. Meissner and I had several conversations regarding the steps we could take
to deal with the serious systemic problems with the agency's naturalization
program. She never objected to the idea of the Justice Department sending in
assistance. In fact, she requested the help.

No one is more concerned with fixing the problems at the immigration service
than Mrs. Meissner, and I am confident in her ability to do so.

JANET RENO
Attorney General
Washington, April 29, 1997

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              310 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Owns the Store That Rescued Him

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 925 words


There was a time, 17 years ago, when Abel Mendez spent his days trying in vain
to sell encyclopedias in the Bronx and his nights scavenging for food in
supermarket Dumpsters. These days, he sells toys to customers on Manhattan's
Upper East Side and spends his evenings thinking about how to renovate his
assortment of houses.

Mr. Mendez, 41, is the new owner of Penny Whistle Toys, a high-end chain with
stores in Manhattan and Long Island that was started almost 20 years ago by
Meredith Brokaw, an author and entrepreneur married to the NBC news anchor Tom
Brokaw.

How Mr. Mendez went from being a jobless refugee rummaging through trash cans to
the polished owner of a Manhattan institution is a pattern often repeated by
immigrants in New York. His is a story about commitment and hard work and about
being blessed with streaks of good fortune.

"I have been very lucky," said Mr. Mendez, standing on the floor of the first
Penny Whistle Toys, a tiny and quaint store on Madison Avenue near 91st Street.

Mr. Mendez's luck began when Mrs. Brokaw hired him as a stock boy just two years
after he arrived from Cuba in 1980, when a boat lift from the port of Mariel
brought thousands of Cubans, including some criminals and psychiatric patients,
to the United States. At the time, Mr. Mendez did not speak English and also
carried the stigma of being a Mariel refugee.

To this day, Mrs. Brokaw says, she does not know why she hired Mr. Mendez. "It
was just one of those serendipitous occurrences," she said. "We needed people,
he was recommended by a friend and I thought, 'Well, why not? I can take a
chance here.' "

From the first day, Mrs. Brokaw says, it was clear that she had made a good
decision. Although she and Mr. Mendez could not communicate well in English, he
knew instinctively what to do, she said, and took to retailing as if all his
life he had done nothing but tend to Upper East Side clients who ordered $46
scooters as party favors.

Mr. Mendez's enterprising spirit and hardy work ethic are typical of many
immigrants, especially of recent immigrants to New York. A just-released study
by the city's Planning Department reveals that newer immigrants to New York tend
to be well educated and report having had white-collar jobs in their native
countries.

Before he arrived in the United States, Mr. Mendez was a geography student at
the University of Havana and his ambition was to identify and develop oil
fields. He decided to leave Cuba when a friend, an architecture student named
Oswaldo Perez, enticed him with the promise that in the United States they would
find personal freedom and the opportunities to advance their careers.

Instead, upon arrival, the two were sent to detention camps, as many other
Mariel refugees were. Because he had no relatives in the United States, Mr.
Perez was shipped to a camp in Arkansas. Mr. Mendez, who had relatives in Miami
and New York, stayed for a week in a makeshift camp at Miami's Orange Bowl.

Eventually, the two were reunited in Brooklyn, where Mr. Mendez lived with an
aunt. An uncle gave him his first job in America, selling candy in Times Square
for $2 an hour. Later, after months of working as handymen in New Jersey and as
unsuccessful salesmen in the Bronx, Mr. Mendez found a job in a factory and Mr.
Perez, delivering food for a midtown restaurant.

One day, an NBC customer who had befriended Mr. Perez and learned of his
architectural background, told him that a friend of his was looking for a window
dresser and that he would be happy to recommend him for the job. Mr. Perez met
Mrs. Brokaw and got the job. Soon thereafter, he brought Mr. Mendez along. He,
too, was hired. After a while, Mr. Mendez, who had begun to study mathematics at
Mercy College, took over the store's accounting.

At that time, Penny Whistle Toys had expanded to the West Side, SoHo and Long
Island. The concept of the store was to make Penny Whistle Toys a specialty shop
where one-of-a-kind toys could be found. The store did not and still does not
carry such popular items as Playmobils, Lego sets or Barbie dolls, but it does
sell old-fashioned wooden pianos, exquisitely painted small German trains and
yellow scooters that resemble New York City cabs.

Eventually, Mr. Mendez was promoted to general manager and worked alongside Mrs.
Brokaw, making all important decisions for the stores. The SoHo store was closed
and the Madison Avenue store was scaled down. When, a year ago, Mrs. Brokaw
decided to sell the store, she said she immediately thought of Mr. Mendez
because she knew that he understood the store's concept and would preserve it.

Both Mrs. Brokaw and Mr. Mendez declined to reveal the purchase price of the
stores. She said Mr. Mendez gave a small down payment and would pay the balance
over eight years. Mr. Mendez said the money for the down payment came from his
savings of 15 years. With his savings, he also brought his family from Cuba to
the United States and invested in several houses throughout the region,
including one in East Hampton.

Mr. Mendez now speaks flawless English and calls the United States home. But, he
says, he does not forget the people who have helped him, mainly Mrs. Brokaw and
Mr. Perez, who died with AIDS five years ago. Nor has he forgotten where he came
from. Flying over Cuba during a diving trip to a Caribbean island, Mr. Mendez
says he cried at the sight of the green mass of land below.

"My life is here. The future is here," Mr. Mendez said. "But my nightmares and
my dreams are all about Cuba."


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Abel Mendez owns Penny Whistle Toys in Manhattan. He began as a
stock boy there after landing as a refugee in Cuba's Mariel boat lift. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              311 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Caribbean Blues;
Drugs! Aliens! Washington, Wake Up

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

DATELINE: BRIDGETOWN, Barbados


IN the fifth year of his presidency, Bill Clinton is finally venturing into the
United States' backyard, traveling to Mexico, Costa Rica and Barbados this week
to meet with the heads of Caribbean nations. But as he opens what the White
House grandly calls a "new dialogue," the discussion is likely to be defined, as
always, by a decades-old dependency on one side and cold strategic
considerations on the other.

In a region where the United States' main concern has forever been its own
security, what is new is that with the end of the cold war, the threat of the
drug trade and increased illegal immigration has replaced Communism as the
Caribbean nations' basis for claiming American attention.

While the Clinton Administration's main objective is to rally support for its
war against drug cartels, the small, vulnerable nations of Central America and
the Caribbean are telling the United States that its lack of interest in the
region has made the drug trade attractive for residents.

"The problem is that the United States has virtually ended its aid to us," said
the Prime Minister of St. Lucia, Vaughan A. Lewis. "Not 'virtually,' " he added.
"It has ended its aid to us for all practical purposes."

During the 80's, the Reagan Administration was a muscular presence, dispensing
money, guns and advice with stunning prodigality, rewarding friends and
punishing enemies. The resulting dislocations, including civil war, left the
region more dependent than ever on the United States, which nevertheless in this
decade has seemed less and less interested in developments to its south, and
increasingly willing to let others -- the European Community in the Caribbean,
the Scandinavian countries in Central America -- pick up the slack. During his
first term, Mr. Clinton's most visible gesture there was an 11 hour visit to
Haiti.

A Self-Defeating Policy

"The U.S. interventionist policy in Central America in the 80's is fast turning
into indifference," Sweden's Deputy Foreign Minister, Pierre Schori, warned last
December in a speech that marked the 50th anniversary of the Marshall Plan.

"This not only lets the peoples of the region down, but it is also a
self-defeating policy," Mr. Schori said.

"Migration, and particularly the illegal immigration to the United States,
grows," he said. "So does the drug problem. This is a visible result of the
instability and lack of development."

But where Washington responded with displays of might in the 80's, whether in
Nicaragua or Grenada, the Caribbean Basin is now of strategic value only to drug
traffickers with bankrolls that exceed the budgets of many countries in the
region. The result, Ivelaw L. Griffith, an expert on Caribbean security issues,
wrote in a recent essay published by the National Defense University in
Washington, is that "security today means an economic and political response,
with the military playing only a supporting role."

Wanted: Trade, Not Aid

But even as the drug threat has grown, in the form of marijuana farming and the
shipment of cocaine, Washington's willingness to take the steps needed to
counter it has faltered. Aid to El Salvador has declined to less than $50
million a year, from more than $1 billion at the height of its civil war. In the
Caribbean, American economic aid has fallen 90 percent, to $26 million in 1995
from $226 million a decade earlier.

Whether they speak English, Spanish, French or Dutch, the region's leaders
recite a familiar mantra: what they really want is "trade, not aid." But on that
front, Washington has been just as parsimonious.

After the United States joined Canada and Mexico in the North American Free
Trade Agreement in 1994, Mr. Clinton promised the small economies of the
Caribbean Basin similar access. But Congress has refused to go along, while
doing away with low-interest loans for development projects in the region and
forcing the closing of the regional office of the Agency for International
Development in Barbados.

At the same time that Washington is pressuring the countries to step up drug
interdiction efforts and to allow United States ships and planes to use their
waters and airspace, it is essentially leaving their small, vulnerable economies
to fend for themselves.

Here in the Eastern Caribbean, Grenada provides perhaps the most dramatic
example of the United States' reduced interest. To much domestic acclaim,
President Reagan sent more than 2,000 troops in October 1983 to overthrow a
pro-Cuban Government; he promised a "special relationship" that would transform
an island of 100,000 people into a prosperous democratic state.

During Mr. Clinton's first term, though, the American Embassy in Grenada was
downgraded to legation status as part of what Washington called an effort "to
shift resources to Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union." Responding to
that blunt reminder of its strategic insignificance, the Grenadian Government
renewed its relationship with Cuba last month. It also plans to sell Grenadian
passports to Chinese and Indians eager to leave Hong Kong.

"We are in trouble, we have a lot of needs, and we have not been getting support
from our traditional friends," said Prime Minister Keith Mitchell.

The challenge facing the leaders who will meet with Mr. Clinton is to convince
him that their nations still have "a strategic, geopolitical importance for the
United States," as El Salvador's President, Armando Calderon Sol, put it in a
recent interview.

He added, "If we cannot convince people in the United States of that thesis,
then I must insist that the problems of the Mayan peoples of El Salvador,
Guatemala and Honduras are going to be in Arizona."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Drugs have replaced Communism as the Caribbean Basin's threat to
American security. Mexican soldiers prepare to burn blocks of seized cocaine.
(Reuters)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              312 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Pariahs of the City: 24 Hours in a Cab

BYLINE: By DAVID ROHDE

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 3046 words


AT 4:11 A.M., Tasneem Khan carefully spread a green prayer rug across the
linoleum floor in his apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. Dressed in jeans, a navy
blue golf shirt and a white Muslim prayer cap, he was a study in contrasts.
Softly murmuring prayers in Arabic, he turned his stocky frame toward Mecca.
Slowly rocking back and forth, Mr. Khan, a 35-year-old Pakistani immigrant,
readied himself for a grueling 12-hour-shift as New York's work horse, pariah
and ambassador to the world.

Mr. Khan, his partner Sajid, and about 20,000 other Pakistani, Indian and
Bangladeshi immigrants are the new face of New York City's $1 billion-a-year
yellow cab industry. Jumping from only 7 percent of the city's 41,000 licensed
taxi drivers in 1984 to more than 50 percent today, according to the Taxi and
Limousine Commission, the typical New York City cab driver is now more likely to
be from the Punjab than from Long Island City.

But some New Yorkers aren't celebrating. As is common in the ritual of
immigration in America, the newcomers are greeted with hostility. Fairly or
unfairly, South Asian cab drivers are stereotyped by some customers as rude and
unable to speak English, disparaged by fellow drivers as vicious competitors who
cause accidents, and blamed for what some drivers say is a steady decline in
wages and respect in what was once one of New York's prized working-class
professions.

"They're part of making it worse," said Johnny Northern, who's been driving a
cab since 1972. "Customers tell me they have a terrible attitude."

But 24 hours in the life of Mr. Khan and his partner, and interviews with dozens
of South Asian cab drivers, reveal a group of immigrants hoping to follow the
well-carved path of Russian Jews, Haitians and others who have driven cabs to
gain an economic foothold in the United States. But the South Asian hacks face a
new, unexpected obstacle in their scramble toward the middle class: strict new
immigration rules.

On Urdu-filled CB radio channels and in Pakistani, Indian and Bangladeshi
restaurants and garages, the talk is of deportation and confusion. How the law
enacted last September and tougher political asylum regulations enacted in
January 1995 will affect New York's South Asian community and the taxi industry
as a whole remains unclear.

Mr. Khan, who took advantage of a 1986 amnesty law to get American citizenship,
is one of the lucky ones. His 28-year-old partner, Sajid, who entered the United
States illegally and spoke on the condition that he be identified only by his
first name, faces possible deportation.

"Last month, everyone said the deportations would start on March 31, but nothing
happened," said Sajid, whose family paid a trafficker $10,000 to smuggle him
into the United States. "Everyone is afraid. I'm afraid too."

On Thursday, April 24, Tasneem Khan started off late. He had visited the family
of his ill father-in-law the previous night, and awakened at 3:30 A.M., a half
hour later than usual. A devout Muslim, he decided to catch the 4:41 A.M. bus
instead of his usual 4:21 bus so he wouldn't have to rush or skip prayers.

He shares an immaculate one-bedroom apartment with his 27-year-old brother,
Nadeem, who works in a newsstand in the World Trade Center. Their six sisters
and parents are still in Lahore, Pakistan. The two brothers see each other for
only a few minutes each day because of their conflicting schedules. Waiting in
darkness and rain on the deserted corner of Madison Street and Cypress Avenue in
Ridgewood, Mr. Khan boarded the Q58 bus for the 20-minute ride to his yellow
chariot.

In an increasingly common practice, Mr. Khan and Sajid lease their cab for a
week at a time. To get the most from their lease, the cab operates nearly 24
hours a day, seven days a week. While one man sleeps, the other drives.

At 5:05, Mr. Khan finds the cab parked on the corner where Sajid leaves it each
night. He starts an engine that has been idle for no more than two hours. At
5:10, he is cruising west down the Queens Boulevard service lane, hunting for
his first fare of the day.

Mr. Khan grew up in the city of Lahore in Pakistan. As a cricket player and
athlete, he was depressed by the weight he put on when he first started driving
a cab. Daily workouts after his 12-hour shift now keep him thin. After
graduating from Punjab University in 1980 with the equivalent of a bachelor's
degree in business, he entered the United States in 1981 on a student visa.

He took a few courses but quickly ran out of money. After working in newsstands
in Manhattan for five years, he met a Pakistani-American woman through a
relative and married her in 1990. In 1989, he started driving a cab. He used his
savings from driving to open newsstands in 1990 and 1993, but both failed at a
cost of $45,000 in savings and bank loans.

A Fear of Deportations, And a Need for Immigrants

Mr. Khan and other South Asian drivers estimated that as many as 30 percent of
the Pakistanis, Bangladeshis and Indians driving yellow cabs in New York City
may be living and working under false requests for political asylum. Exactly how
many South Asians could face deportation is unknown, but taxi fleet owners warn
that fewer and fewer people are interested in working as cabbies. Taxi
Commission officials say fears of large-scale deportations are probably
overblown, but the loss of immigrant drivers could handicap an industry that has
grown dependent on cheap immigrant labor.

"We are in the process of profiling how this new law will affect this business,"
said Diane McGrath-McKetchnie, the Taxi and Limousine Commission chairwoman.
"I'm hoping it won't have any significant impact on the T.L.C., but I'm not sure
about it."

At 5:17, Mr. Khan enters Manhattan, the borough where 80 percent of yellow cab
fares begin or end, the commission says. For the next six hours -- at least half
of his shift -- all of his fares will go toward paying $75 in fees to the
Al-Ehram taxi fleet in Long Island City, Queens, from which he rents his cab and
medallion. Over time, the value of a medallion has steadily risen to about
$200,000, and so has the cost of renting them.

Only 35 percent of the people who own medallions actually drive cabs; most
medallions are owned by large taxi fleets or investors who buy the medallions
and rent them to drivers at a profit.

As Mr. Khan speeds down a deserted Second Avenue at 5:20 A.M., it is already
filled with a handful of yellow cabs prowling for passengers. At one time, Mr.
Khan had hoped to buy his own medallion, but now he says he plans to get out of
the business. He attributes his thinning hair to stress and said the pay is not
worth the hassle.

'We're Easy Targets,' Says a Driver Craving Respect

Mr. Khan complains that taxi drivers are increasingly viewed with disdain in New
York City. Passengers bark orders at drivers, he said, and don't treat them with
respect. "We are treated worse than animals," he said, echoing other drivers'
comments. "Cabdrivers are everyone's scapegoats. We're easy targets."

He turns onto 10th Street and parks at the corner of 11th Street and First
Avenue. At 5:25 A.M., he rushes through an unmarked door and enters a
nondescript storefront mosque for prayers. Mr. Khan tries to go every day for
morning and afternoon prayers. If he has a fare, he will pray silently in the
cab, as the passenger remains oblivious to what he is doing.

But Mr. Khan's religious beliefs defy stereotyping. He does not ask his wife to
wear a veil and uses the money he earns to help put her through medical school
on the Caribbean island Dominica. He deferred his dream of becoming a certified
public accountant to support his wife's studies, and he criticizes Islamic
fundamentalists. "There is nothing in the Koran that says women should not being
educated," he said. "All my sisters are very well educated."

After prayers, Mr. Khan hunts for fares on the Upper East Side, picking up his
first passenger at 5:59 at 95th Street and Second Avenue. As the sun begins to
rise, he listens to the 6 A.M. BBC news for a reminder of home. As the city
wakes, he begins speaking with driver friends over his radio. Tips on where
passengers are and where traffic is snarled are exchanged.

The next three frenzied hours are spent shuttling passengers primarily from the
Upper East Side and Upper West Side to midtown, where 42 percent of all yellow
cab fares begin or end. He eats no breakfast, stopping only to buy a coffee at
7:10.

His one break is a fare to La Guardia Airport, after which he sits in a holding
lot with other cabs from 7:38 to 8:25. Normally, he decides the wait for a fare
is too long and heads back to Manhattan empty, but on this day he stays. During
the wait, he stretches his legs and reads a newspaper. By 9:05, he has dropped
his airport passenger off at the Plaza Hotel and is back in midtown hunting for
customers.

There has been an effort to improve the performance of the taxi industry over
the last four years. The previous T.L.C. chairman, Christopher Lynn, and Ms.
McGrath-McKetchnie have made changes intended to improve service, like requiring
all new drivers to attend classes on geography, courtesy and basic English. Last
week, Police Commissioner Howard Safir announced efforts to enforce traffic laws
and said that taxi drivers would be specifically targeted.

Ms. McGrath-McKetchnie said the number of serious complaints has dropped and for
the first time that she knows of, the T.L.C. is receiving more letters praising
cabbies for courtesy and professionalism than letters complaining of rudeness.

But cabbies complain of an increasingly competitive marketplace where car
services are encroaching on yellow cabs. They say new regulations cost them time
and money, and that the police frequently blanket them with expensive tickets.
But Ms. McGrath-McKetchnie points to a sharp drop in robberies and yellow cab
drivers killed on the job as evidence that the Giuliani administration's reforms
have also aided drivers.

Many cabbies concede that their earnings rose slightly after a 20 percent fare
increase in March 1996. The T.L.C. barred fleets and medallion owners from
increasing the rents drivers paid for cabs by more than 14 percent to ensure
that drivers received some of the increase. Despite accusations from drivers,
T.L.C. officials say surveys have caught no fleets violating the cap.

Several American-born drivers blamed South Asians for making the business more
ruthless. Cabbies complained of Pakistanis, Indians and Bangladeshis cutting
them off and risking people's lives simply to get a fare. "The Pakistanis, the
Indians and the Bangladeshis, they're the worst," said Francisco de la Cruz, who
has been driving a cab for 13 years. "They drive like crazy. But all those
things they do I think they have to do in order to survive."

T.L.C. officials say they detect no more complaints about South Asians than any
other group. Mr. Khan, who has been driving for the last six years, agrees that
the business is becoming more and more ruthless, but says South Asian drivers
are no worse than others and attributes tensions to the steadily increasing
price of renting taxis and medallions.

Like many drivers, Mr. Khan says the Taxi Drivers and Allied Workers Union,
which represents drivers, is ineffective. He believes South Asian drivers could
be a powerful force if they could unionize.

From 9:30 on, nearly all of Mr. Khan's fares consist of taking business people
back and forth across midtown. Usually stuck in traffic, the day is a slow
grind. For lunch, he grabs a chicken sandwich at the Pak Punjab deli on Second
Avenue and Third Street, a favorite of Pakistani drivers.

He returns to the mosque on First Avenue for prayers at 1:30 P.M. Three more
monotonous hours in midtown and finally at 4:39, roughly 12 hours after he
started, Mr. Khan's shift is over. It has been a slow day, but tonight will be
special. His wife is returning for a visit after four months in Dominica. He has
driven 117 miles, had 27 fares with no confrontations with passengers or the
police. After paying for leasing the cab, leasing the medallion and for gas, he
will take home $80. Mr. Khan earned $6 an hour for a 12 hours a day. His average
tip was 89 cents.

During the shift change, Mr. Khan, his partner, Sajid, and other Pakistanis
drivers drink tea, tell stories of the day and joke for 15 or 20 minutes. But by
5:20 P.M., Sajid is on the road and Mr. Khan is on the subway on his way to the
gym. Within five minutes, Sajid picks up his first fare at the corner of
Washington and Jane Streets. He crisscrosses the Village, gets a fare headed
uptown and then settles into shuttling passengers up and down the Upper East
Side.

Sajid is tall and imposing, but he is soft-spoken and almost shy. He praises the
United States endlessly and is desperate to stay here. "Why not, if you work and
pay taxes for 5 years or 10 years, you can get a green card?" he asked
repeatedly. "I have never taken welfare. I have worked hard. I have paid my
taxes."

Like other illegal immigrants, Sajid put his life and thousands of dollars in
the hands of an anonymous trafficker for the age-old goal of a better life for
himself and later his family. At 21, he flew from Pakistan to Canada, entering
with false travel documents provided by the trafficker.

After several days, he was abruptly driven to the American border. The
trafficker did all the talking and handled all the documents. Sajid still does
not know exactly how he got into the United States, but he arrived in New York
in 1990 at the age of 21 with only the name and phone number of a friend from
his home village.

In Search of the Holy Grail: American Citizenship

Seven years later, his homesickness has eased, but he often thinks of his
parents, sisters, brother and friends in Pakistan during the long hours of
driving. A high-school graduate, he comes from a small farming village of 1,800
in the Punjab in north Central Pakistan.

In a country with an average annual income of $500, the $10,000 his family spent
to get him to New York is a fortune. Much of the last seven years has been a
long struggle to repay his family, and most importantly, obtain the citizenship
that will allow him to bring his family to America.

At first, he worked in gas stations, where he received $3 an hour for a
70-to-80-hour week. In December 1991, he started driving yellow cabs without
having a work authorization. The T.L.C. began requiring taxi drivers to prove
they had work authorizations only last year.

He saved his money for four years, but lost $14,000 on two different newsstands
he opened in 1995. He married an American citizen that same year and now has
conditional status with the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has
allowed him to receive a work authorization. If officials rule that his marriage
is valid after two years, he will be eligible for a green card, but he fears the
I.N.S. will rule against them or that the marriage will fall apart.

"Each day my mother prays that I get a green card," he said. "If God wants to
give me some help, I'll get the green card."

After the string of rides on the Upper East Side from 6 to 7:25, Sajid receives
a rare fare -- a passenger bound for Forest Hills, Queens. He heads for La
Guardia after hearing from friends on the CB radio that lines aren't long. From
8:31 on, he continually picks up fares that have him criss-crossing Manhattan
from the Lower East Side to the Upper West Side to the World Trade Center to
Washington Heights.

But at 12:16 A.M., his luck abruptly ends. He is unable to find a fare for the
next half hour. Dozens of cabs circle bars, clubs and movies theaters in the
East and West Villages, desperate for customers. Just before 1, he gives up and
heads for the highlight of his day -- dinner at his favorite low-cost Pakistani
restaurant.

In a scene reminiscent of any diner, Sajid and his cabby friends talk business
and tease each other. The conversation is light, but the front page of the
current issue of The U.S. Asia Times features a front-page article about 71
illegal aliens being arrested in a New Jersey perfume factory.

Most South Asians are here legally, but among the illegal immigrants and the
17,000 or so nationwide who are seeking political asylum, stories like this
cause widespread unease.

The Odds Are Long For Asylum-Seekers

Since political asylum rules were tightened in January 1995, I.N.S. officials
say they have processed nearly 200,000 backlogged cases.

Last week, officials began sending letters to 110,000 of the asylum seekers,
informing them of impending interviews and asking them to give their
whereabouts.

Officials say they hope to process all of the backlogged cases within the next
18 months, which could mean the loss of thousands of work authorizations and
some deportations.

"We have about an 80 percent rejection rate," said Brian Jordan, a spokesman for
the I.N.S. in Washington. "Most people don't show up for the asylum interviews."

Robert Deming, a cabdriver for 16 years and a teacher at the Master Cabby New
York Taxi Academy in Queens, said he has nothing against immigrants, but
believes some taxi jobs must be opened up to poor Americans -- especially those
who may be cut off welfare. "This is not xenophobia," he said. "I just want to
see Americans supporting themselves."

With a good night already under his belt, Sajid decides to call it quits at 2:34
A.M., an hour earlier than usual. He turns on the "Off Duty" light at and heads
over the Queensboro Bridge.

All together, he had driven 119 miles and had 24 fares. After paying for his
expenses, he will take home $100 for a 10-hour shift. He has earned $10 an hour.
His average tip was $1.04.

On the way home, Sajid bought himself a treat -- a $25 prepaid phone card to
call his best friend in Pakistan.

At 3:10 A.M., he locks the door to his cab and heads for the one-bedroom
apartment he shares with another Pakistani immigrant. The man, who pumps gas,
just received his cabdriver license. A few miles away, Mr. Khan will soon be
rising and searching for his green prayer rug. For now, the cycles and rhythms
of the taxi industry, the city and American immigration roll on.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Our Daily Cab Fare -- Tasneem Khan and his partner, Sajid,
lease a cab, which they operate 24 hours a day, every day, alternating 12-hour
shifts. This is how they made out on Thursday, April 24. (pg. 1); Tasneem Khan
(standing, left) and a partner share a cab, driving 12 hours on, 12 hours off,
seven days a week. Right, Mr. Khan begins his day around 4 A.M. with prayers in
his apartment in Ridgewood, Queens. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New
York Times)(pg. 14)

Maps of Manhattan showing the location of various stops that occured while
riding in the cab. (pg. 14)

Chart: "Our Daily Cab Fare"
DAY SHIFT

AVG. FARE TIME -- 12 Min. (From pickup to dropoff)

AVG. WAITING TIME -- 9 Min. (From one dropoff to the next pickup)

AVG. FARE AMOUNT -- $6.11 (Lowest: $2.90. Highest: $20.30)

AVG. TIP AMOUNT -- $0.89 (Lowest: $0. Highest: $3.20)

TAKE HOME PAY -- $80

NIGHT SHIFT

AVG. FARE TIME -- 12 Min.

AVG. WAITING TIME -- 6 Min.

AVG. FARE AMOUNT -- $7.23 (Lowest: $2.60. Highest: $19.90)

AVG. TIP AMOUNT -- $1.04 (Lowest: $0.10. Highest: $2.80)

TAKE HOME PAY -- $100

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              313 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 4, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WESTCHESTER BRIEFS

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 20; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1093 words



Bomb Investigation

Three Federal agencies along with the Westchester County District Attorney's
office and a local police department are trying to assess the discovery on April
25 of what appeared to be a bomb-making laboratory in the basement of an
Elmsford house.

The landlord, John Starakis, called the Elmsford Police Department after he
discovered 40 jars of chemicals and acids -- including potassium chloride and
hydrochloride -- along with technical manuals diagramming ways to make bombs,
apparently left behind by a former tenant, Vaios Harbas.

The neighborhood was evacuated for nearly six hours while the County Bomb Squad
and the State Department of Environmental Conservation removed the chemicals.

Lieut. Frank Resigno of the Elmsford Police Department said last week that Mr.
Harbas, 38, a Greek immigrant who had not lived in the house for more than a
year, was being detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service on
charges that he is an illegal alien.

David Hebert, a spokesman for District Attorney Jeanine Pirro's office, said the
case was being handled by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
The District Attorney's Office was assisting those investigations, he said.

Police Officer Cleared

Charges will not be filed against a Port Chester police officer involved in an
incident last winter during which a 15-year-old boy was shot at 13 times and
critically wounded, the District Attorney's Office has decided.

Police Officer Mark Braccio, 29, a three-year veteran of the Port Chester Police
Department, fired on a stolen van Feb. 19 as it was driven toward him after a
high-speed chase. District Attorney Jeanine Pirro said an investigation by the
Public Integrity Bureau of her office determined that the officer's action was
justified.

According to the findings, the van was being driven in such a manner that the
officer "reasonably believed that he was in imminent danger of being seriously
wounded or killed by the oncoming vehicle."

Angelo Sposta, a Port Chester High School freshman, was driving the Dodge van,
which had been stolen from the parking lot of a Food Emporium in Rye Brook
earlier that day. Another 15-year-old, Graham Cumming, a passenger, was not
injured.

The van, the police said, was going more than 60 miles an hour when the shots
were fired. The youth drove through a road block, struck two marked police cars
and drove along a sidewalk and through bushes before speeding down another road
on the wrong side of the street, reports said. The van then struck a parked car
occupied by two people. Continuing to accelerate, the youth struck another
police vehicle and continued in the direction of Officer Braccio.

The youth was struck in the side and thigh, underwent surgery at the County
Medical Center and was later released. Any potential charges against him were
referred to Family Court.


Losing $1 Million Home

James Ida, counselor to the Genovese organized crime family, was convicted on
April 23 of racketeering, murder conspiracy and mail fraud in connection with
the unlawful operation of the Feast of San Gennaro, said Mary Jo White, the
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. Proceeds of the
festival were supposed to go to charity, but for the last 70 years, the mob
charged vendors high rents and kept the money, authorities said.

On April 24, a Federal jury decided that Mr. Ida, 57, must forfeit his $1
million estate in Bedford, an 11-acre property where horses are kept.

Mr. Ida, the third most powerful man in the Genovese crime family, was found
guilty of supervising the operation of two unlawful gambling establishments,
conspiracy to transport stolen construction equipment and conspiracy to defraud
the United States. He was also convicted of racketeering, murder conspiracy and
the murder of Antonio Dilorenzo in 1988, Ms. White's office said.

In addition, he was convicted of conspiracy to murder Ralph DeSimone in 1991 and
Dominic Tucci in 1995.

He faces a mandatory sentence of life in prison without parole.

Dangerous Crossings

The intersection of Central Park Avenue at Palmer Road is the No. 1 spot for
fender benders and other accidents, according to a survey by the Traffic
Engineering and Safety Group of the State Department of Transportation.

A traffic safety engineer, Robert J. Rella, said that a computerized program
looking at hot spots in the county and accident records over the last two years
showed that statistically the following sections of road were some of the most
troublesome:

Central Park Avenue at Route 100A in Hartsdale, known as the Four Corners; King
Street at North Ridge Street in Rye Brook; Central Park Avenue from Inverness
Road to Ardsley Road in Greenburgh; Route 9A from the Saw Mill River Road to
North State Road in Briarcliff Manor.

Also, Route 22 at Guard Hill Road and Route 121 in Bedford; the Boston Post Road
from the Port Chester border to South Regent Street; Central Park Avenue at
Sadore Lane in Yonkers; Central Park Avenue from Roxbury Drive to Crisfield
Street in Yonkers, and Route 117 from St. Marks Place to Moore Avenue in Mount
Kisco.

Mr. Rella said he felt that changes planned at six of the trouble spots would
lead to fewer accidents.

Recreation Survey

Westchester residents prefer walking and jogging to other recreational
activities, a survey of households conducted by the county's Planning Department
and its Parks, Recreation and Conservation Department has shown.

The results were tabulated from a 33-item questionnaire distributed last year.

In addition to walking and jogging, the following activities were most popular,
according to the survey:

Swimming, bicycling, visiting historic sites and museums, attending cultural
performances, picnicking, playing golf and tennis, using playgrounds and ice
skating.

Among the most visited county parks and sites were Playland in Rye, the County
Center in White Plains, the Bronx River Pathway, the Kensico Dam Plaza in
Valhalla and Glen Island Park in New Rochelle.

While residents of all ages enjoyed swimming and bicycling, those with children
preferred picnicking and using playgrounds. Ice skating and playing hockey were
cited as preferred activities by households with children 6 to 18.

Complete results of the survey are in a report called Residents Preferences
Survey 1996, which can be obtained by calling the County Planning Department at
285-4400.   ELSA BRENNER

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              314 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 5, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Beckoned by Promise, Felled by a Short Cut;
Plight of Four Polish Immigrants Comes to Light After a Fatal Fire

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1802 words


Jan Kamieniec moved into the house in Maspeth, Queens, because the price was
right: $250 a month for a room and kitchen privileges in someone else's
third-floor apartment.

He could have afforded something better and safer, his friends and sister said.
His hourly wage making stone counter tops had risen in recent years to more than
$10 from $6.50.

But Mr. Kamieniec, 43, was supporting an 80-year-old mother he had left behind
in Poland in 1991 and was trying to save for the future. The bargain rent
helped.

Janusz Kosmowski, 39, paid even less, but all he got was a space in the cellar.

Neighbors disagreed about whether he stayed there occasionally or regularly, for
nothing or for a token pittance. But they concurred that he had hit tough times,
and that the balm of alcohol was making them tougher still.

"I can't figure out how it happened," his wife, Jadwiga, said after the fire, in
an interview in her apartment in Pisz, Poland, where a faux Persian carpet on
the living room floor and terra cotta tiles in the bathroom were measures of how
much money Mr. Kosmowski had sent home during a decade in America. "I thought
everything was all right."

Mr. Kamieniec, whose fortunes seemed to be rising, and Mr. Kosmowski, whose luck
was ebbing, were among four Polish immigrants killed two weeks ago when flames
engulfed 60-01 56th Road in Maspeth.

Both were living on the cheap in a house that had been sliced and diced to
accommodate more tenants. The fire drew attention not only to such illegal
conversions throughout Queens, but also to the immigrants who rely on these
makeshift, dangerous accommodations.

The stories of the dead men, and of scores of Polish immigrants like them in
Maspeth, are varied. They are dreamers tripping on obstacles they cannot control
and drifters hitting snags of their own making. They are ascetics essentially
volunteering for deprivation so that far-away relatives can know glimmers of
luxury, and they are vagrants with no other choice.

They are, in other words, like millions of immigrants before them and millions
since, beckoned by a promise that turned out to be more complicated than they
had imagined.

A problem almost all of them face is finding inexpensive shelter. Basic
one-bedroom apartments cost $700 to $800 a month, and the landlords of those
legal units do not want to rent to groups of single men who plan to share the
space. So the men burrow into illicit corners and cubicles.

"It's either that or living in the park," Teresa Vavak Sanchez, a
Polish-American social worker in Maspeth, said. "A lot of the guys, what happens
to them is they break down emotionally and start drinking. Then their lives
really go to ruins."

Mr. Kamieniec, Mr. Kosmowski and Frank Glowacki -- who owned the house and was
socializing with Mr. Kosmowski in the cellar when the fire started around 9:20
P.M. on April 20th -- were all drunk when they died, according to autopsy
results.

Dr. Charles S. Hirsch, the New York City Medical Examiner, said he could not
release specific blood alcohol levels, but described the three men as "far
beyond what would be considered impaired for the purposes of driving a car."

The fourth victim, Kazimierz Cielas, 41, who shared the cellar with Mr.
Kosmowski and also died there, was sober, his autopsy showed.

But Mr. Cielas's acquaintances said that he, along with Mr. Kosmowski, drank
frequently, a fact these acquaintances characterized as a cause, or perhaps
consequence, of the men's diminished fortunes in recent years.

Like Mr. Kosmowski, Mr. Cielas had come from Pisz, also in 1986, and he, too,
had left behind a wife. He told her he would be back as soon as he had earned
enough for a car, according to his mother, Anna.

But months turned to years and years to a decade, and her son did not return,
Mrs. Cielas said. She, like Mrs. Kosmowski, expressed ignorance of just how
badly he was living in Maspeth.

"Oh, God, how could I imagine it: all those people living in a black hole in the
basement?" Mrs. Cielas said in her apartment in Pisz.

Mr. Glowacki, 44, was an immigrant of much longer standing. He lived with his
wife, Barbara, and two children, ages 13 and 9, in Port Chester, a suburb in
Westchester County.

Barbara Glowacki said that he had come to America in 1971 and, over the years,
had owned and operated Polish delicatessens in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Queens.
When he bought one at 60-01 56th Road in Maspeth in 1984, Mrs. Glowacki said, it
came with two stories of housing above it. She said she knew little about her
husband's dealings as a landlord.

According to city records, there should have been only two apartments, one on
each of the upper floors. But former residents of the building, which was
demolished after the fire, said that the third floor had been illegally split
into a two-bedroom apartment with a rent of $650 a month and a one-bedroom
apartment with a rent of $550. Mr. Kamieniec subleased a room from a Polish
couple in the larger apartment.

Mr. Glowacki never registered the building as the de facto multiple dwelling it
had become, which would have required him to install a fire escape. When flames
swept up the staircase, tenants had to fling themselves and their children out
of windows. Mr. Kamieniec, who was on the third floor, did not escape.

In the cellar, where the other men died, partitions had been illegally erected
and a common kitchen and bathroom had been illegally installed, city officials
said. Here, too, there was only one way out, and it, too, was blocked by fire.

But if the men who perished in Mr. Glowacki's house were not, as a group,
completely unwitting victims, Mr. Glowacki was not a simply portrayed villain.
Neighbors said that he provided cheap -- and sometimes free -- housing to people
with no other options.

"None of us are perfect," Mrs. Glowacki said in her Port Chester home last week.
"We all have good and bad sides of us. We all have faults. But Frank was a good
person. He was a gentleman."

He was also not the only landlord in Maspeth whose property had been illegally
converted. Across the street and less than 100 yards from his house stands a
three-story brick building, at No. 60-30, that is infamous in the neighborhood
because of the combination garage and pigeon coop behind it. This two-story
shanty has been carved into a dreary warren of five rooms, many without windows,
with a squalid common kitchen.

Neighborhood residents said that men pay between $100 and $250 a month to stay
there, although its owner, a Polish immigrant named Charles Mardula, said
through a translator last week that the men lived there free and were all his
cousins.

A visit to the structure last week found just one man, Jan Karpinski, 60, who
said that three others had scattered when city inspectors descended on the
neighborhood after the fatal fire. Mr. Karpinski was packing his belongings.

Speaking through a translator, he said that while the other men paid rent to Mr.
Mardula, he did not, because he was helping Mr. Mardula renovate another
building two blocks away. He said he knew Mr. Mardula from Mt. Zion Cemetery,
where they both made headstones and dug graves.

"He's a hero," Mr. Karpinski said of Mr. Mardula. "He's helping us."

Although Mr. Karpinski's job at the cemetery pays $500 a week, he said it was
important for him to spend as little of that as possible on rent and to send as
much as $12,000 a year to his wife and 18-year-old daughter in Poland.

"I have no choice but to live like this," Mr. Karpinski said, without a trace of
self-pity. "My daughter is in school. There is not much money in Poland and it's
spent very, very quickly."

Mr. Karpinski left Grajewo, Poland, in 1990, as the mass migration of the 1980's
petered out. Mr. Kosmowski and Mr. Cielas, by contrast, came from Pisz during
the height of that emigration, when the economy in Poland was particularly
bleak.

For many families, the solution to staggeringly high unemployment and abysmal
wages was to send one breadwinner abroad, especially to America, where a meager
salary in dollars could translate into significant buying power in Polish
zloties.

In fact, one of Pisz's wealthiest neighborhoods is nicknamed "Reagan Land"
because its houses were said to be built with money that Polish emigres made in
America during Ronald Reagan's Presidency in the 1980's.

Mr. Kosmowski, who was 27 when he departed Pisz in 1986, had been a manager at a
lumber mill and was leaving behind a wife and infant daughter. Mr. Cielas, then
30, had done odd jobs in construction. He was leaving his second wife and a
13-year-old son who lived with his first wife.

The men planned their trips separately, arriving in New York City three months
apart. They found construction, carpentry and woodworking jobs, and apparently
did well enough at first. Mr. Cielas sent back about $100 a month for child
support. Mr. Kosmowski sent back much more -- apparently, thousands of dollars
over the years.

That money helped purchase a new car for his wife and an 18-gear mountain bike
for his 11-year-old daughter, Malgosia. In addition, Mrs. Kosmowski said: "I
could afford to buy nicer clothes. We took vacations by the sea."

But at some point, both men's lives took a downturn. Their only recent
employment, some neighbors said, was helping Mr. Glowacki smoke sausages in a
shed behind the house.

Their lives here were making less sense than in the old days. Poland's economy
had improved dramatically in the 1990's, and the dollar-zloty ratio was not
nearly as favorable as it had been. Mrs. Kosmowski had employment of her own in
Pisz as a town clerk.

But Mr. Kosmowski and Mr. Cielas stayed in Maspeth. Neighbors said it may have
been a matter of stubborn pride; ironically, the less money Polish immigrants
had, the less likely they were to abandon their dream.

"You don't go back empty-handed," explained a friend who declined to give his
name.

Mr. Kamieniec, however, was doing better than ever.

In the rural town of Cewkowo, Poland, he had eked out an existence on a family
farm. In America, his income grew steadily.

He had become so expert at polishing and carving granite and marble surfaces
that on April 1, his boss at Granite Tops, a Mount Vernon, N.Y., company, had
given Mr Kamieniec a big raise.

"You could tell he was really happy," Chris Sanzaro, the company's owner, said.
"He was almost in tears."

Mr. Kamieniec, Mr. Cielas, Mr. Kosmowski and Mr. Glowacki were mourned in a
special memorial service one week ago at Holy Cross Church on 56th Road in
Maspeth. About 150 people attended, offering tearful prayers not only for the
dead, but also for the living.

One beseeched Mother Mary in a Polish hymn.

"Oh Maria," he sang, "beg the Lord for plenty of mercy for your children, so the
world will be better."


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The house, above, in Maspeth, Queens, after fire gutted it two
weeks ago, taking the lives of its owner and three other Polish immigrants. At
top, the site on 56th Road where the house had stood. The wreckage has been
removed and the ground leveled. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York
Times) (pg. B1); In Pisz, Poland, Anna and Wincenty Cielas sat at home with
wedding photographs of their son, Kazimierz, who died in a fire with three other
Polish immigrants. They say they have no money for his funeral. (Jacek
Marczewski for The New York Times) (pg. B4)


Chart/Photos: "THE VICTIMS"

KAZIMIERZ CIELAS
Lived in the cellar. Left Poland for America in 1986, telling relatives the trip
would be short and the goal was earning enough money to buy a car.

JANUSZ KOSMOWSKI
Stayed at least occasionally in the cellar. During 11 years in America, sent
thousands of dollars to a wife and daughter in Poland. But seasonal construction
jobs gave way to informal work smoking sausages.

JAN KAMIENIEC
Rented a single room from a Polish couple in one of two third-story apartments.
Supported the mother he had left in Poland in 1991 with his income as a cutter
and polisher of stone counter tops.

FRANK GLOWACKI
Owned the house, along with another in Port Chester, N.Y., where he lived with
his wife and children. Came to the United States from Poland more than 25 years
ago.

Photos of Cielas, Kosmowski, and Glowacki. (pg. B1)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              315 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 6, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Terror Suspect Freed by U.S.; Flies to Jordan

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 805 words


Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook, the political leader of the Hamas movement jailed in
Manhattan for 22 months on suspicion of terrorism, was deported yesterday and
flown to Jordan aboard a United States military jet.

His release ended what had become an embarrassing case for both the United
States and Israel. Both nations had sought to keep him in jail, but did not come
up with persuasive evidence of his complicity in a series of violent attacks by
Hamas.

In an unusual agreement, Mr. Abu Marzook relinquished his permanent residence
status in the United States and said he would not contest the terrorism
accusations that had prompted his initial detention. In exchange, the United
States released him from solitary confinement and allowed him to go to Jordan.

Mr. Abu Marzook was detained in July 1995 at Kennedy Airport because his name
was on an American "watch list" of people suspected of terrorist activities. He
was never linked to any specific terrorist act, and he insisted that his
fund-raising activities were separate from Hamas attacks.

His release came after complicated negotiations between his lawyers and the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service over how the allegations
would be handled.

Under the agreement signed April 25, both sides agreed to withhold comment until
he arrived in Jordan, which announced last week that it would accept him.

As soon as the plane landed, Mr. Abu Marzook's lawyers and American officials
offered sharply differing assessments of the deal.

"He refused to admit to the charges because they are false and baseless," said
Michael Kennedy, the lawyer for Mr. Abu Marzook. "He remains the head of the
political Hamas, will continue to exercise that leadership role, and I think
that is going to help the peace process."

The United States, on the other hand, said it believed that by pleading no
contest to the terrorism charges, Mr. Abu Marzook had not cleared his name. "The
United States Government considered him deportable for engaging in terrorist
activities," said Russell A. Bergeron, Jr., the I.N.S. spokesman.

The deal to release Mr. Abu Marzook was the same one he himself had offered
after the American authorities detained him in 1995.

Soon after his detention, Israel requested his extradition, saying it wanted to
try him on charges of helping raise money and mastermind a series of bloody
attacks for which responsibility was claimed by the military wing of Hamas.

Mr. Abu Marzook maintained that he had no connection with violence and that the
money he raised supported projects like clinics.

Israel dropped the extradition request last month, saying a trial would disturb
the already beleaguered peace talks and open Israel to further attacks. But Mr.
Abu Marzook's lawyers maintained that Israel did not have enough evidence for a
trial, and had acted out of fear that it would lose a high-profile case.

Officials at the Justice Department declined to discuss the quality or quantity
of evidence in the case.  "The deportation was taken after a review of options,"
a Justice Department spokesman said last night.

But senior American officials have been expressing annoyance with Israel for
saying for nearly two years that it would pursue the case and then suddenly
dropping it.

In January, Mr. Abu Marzook stunned Israel and the United States by saying he
would no longer fight extradition and would be willing to face trial.

When Israel decided not to try him, the search was on for a country that would
accept him. The United States, which in early 1995 had pressed the Jordanians to
expel him, reversed itself and urged Jordan to take him back. Israeli officials
said they welcomed the decision by King Hussein to take him.

Immigration Service officials said Mr. Abu Marzook was taken from the Manhattan
Correction Center at about 10 P.M. on Sunday and escorted onto a military jet
early on Monday for the 11-hour flight to Amman, the Jordanian capital.

Once in Amman, one of the first things Mr. Abu Marzook did was telephone his
wife in Falls Church, Va., using a cellular phone. His wife, Nadia el-Ashi, said
that he had expressed surprise that he had flown the whole way in his orange
prison jumpsuit and that he could not wait to get out of it.

"He was innocent from the very first moment," said Mrs. Ashi, who lives with the
couple's six children in Virginia. Four of them are American citizens by birth,
while the other two and Mrs. Ashi are all legal residents. Mr. Abu Marzook, a
46-old-businessman, had been a legal resident of the United States since 1982.

Mr. Abu Marzook released a three-page statement through his lawyers expressing
some bitterness at the way the judicial system treated him, saying it stemmed
from an American prejudice against Muslims and Palestinians.



LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              316 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1997, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton and Mexico Chief Pledge Joint Effort on Border and Drugs

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 983 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 6


President Clinton and President Ernesto Zedillo wrapped up two days of meetings
today by signing joint statements on managing the border and fighting illegal
drugs. They emphasized close cooperation and shared goals but proposed no novel
strategies or solutions.

In tone and effect, the statements nicely capped a series of small-bore
agreements announced since Mr. Clinton arrived here on Monday night for the
first visit of his Presidency to a Latin American country. Most of the
agreements seemed more symbolic than substantive on issues from building bridges
over the border to surveying an endangered species of tiny dolphin in the Gulf
of California. They leave unresolved deep differences over specific points of
contention, such as whether agents from the Drug Enforcement Administration may
carry sidearms in Mexico, as well as problems like the extradition of drug
traffickers, in addition to trade, environment and immigration issues.

But Administration officials said the agreements, like Mr. Clinton's visit
itself, are aimed at cementing a long-term cooperative relationship and
reassuring Mexico that the United States regards it as a respected partner.

The visit comes after months of acrimonious exchanges over drug policies that
have strained relations between the two countries.

Two months ago, the Administration and Congress were battling over whether
Mexico deserved "certification," or recognition that it was cooperating to fight
drug trafficking. Mexicans regarded that fight as an assault on their
sovereignty, and it left some so bitter that Jesus Silva Herzog, the Mexican
Ambassador to Washington, still likes to joke that he wants to decertify
California for its participation in the drug trade.

During the visit, both Mr. Clinton and Mr. Zedillo took pains to underscore
neighborliness and play down division.

"No two countries are working together on more important issues, with a more
direct effect on the lives of their people, than Mexico and the United States,"
President Clinton said in a joint news conference with Mr. Zedillo here today.

At a ceremony this morning, Mr. Zedillo pointedly hailed Mr. Clinton as "a
friend who respects Mexico as a sovereign nation." And both agreements signed
today make recognition of each nation's sovereignty their starting point.

The tenor of Mr. Clinton's visit and of his reception have been strikingly
friendly. He has repeatedly urged that both countries change their notion of the
border as a dividing line. "We want our border to be our bond," Mr. Clinton said
today.


Partly to demonstrate his respect for Mexican culture, Mr. Clinton spent two
hours on Monday night with Mr. Zedillo marveling at ancient works on display at
the Anthropology Museum here.

Mr. Clinton's visit, said one Administration official, "is more about building a
relationship that achieves results than it is about achieving those results
today."

Another official said: "The anti-Americanism has increased over the last few
months, and we need to deal with that."

Whether the American efforts to placate Mexican sensibilities will produce
progress on drugs and immigration remains to be seen.

"There aren't any real solutions in here," acknowledged Gen. Barry McCaffrey,
director of Mr. Clinton's anti-drug efforts, as he held up a copy of a study
called the "U.S.-Mexico Bi-National Drug Threat Assessment" that the two
Governments released today.

Chapters written by American officials are specific about the extent of the
demand for drugs in the United States, a factor that the Mexicans have
repeatedly complained goes unemphasized. Perhaps in deference to that
sensitivity, Mr. Clinton made clear today that drug users in the United States
are major contributors to the problem.

"We have less than 5 percent of the world's population and we consume about half
the drugs. And we're more than happy every year, American citizens, to give
billions of dollars that winds up in the hands of narco-traffickers," he said.

The chapters written by Mexican officials are vague about the problem of
Government corruption here, which has not been a subject of prominent discussion
during Mr. Clinton's visit. At one point, it does note that some recent cases,
as well as the dismissal last year of 1,200 police offficials, "indicate that
corruption is widespread in the judicial and law enforcement system."

Administration officials adamantly refused to describe talks over whether
American drug agents would be permitted to carry sidearms in Mexico.

Asked about that issue at the news conference, Mr. Zedillo first noted that the
anti-drug declaration signed today recognizes "the absolute respect for the
sovereignty and territorial jurisdiction of both Mexico and the United States."
He then quoted language committing both Governments to "do whatever necessary to
insure the protection of the officials in charge of enforcing the law." He had
previously ruled out the notion that the agents would carry guns.

American officials would not say whether that language meant American drug
agents would be allowed to carry guns here. But the Mexican Attorney General,
Jorge Madrazo Cuellar, said late this afternoon: "We have not reached any
agreement on this issue."

Administration officials said that they had also made no progress on the issue
of "hot pursuit" -- whether the United States could pursue drug shipments by sea
or air into Mexico.

Even some of the smaller-scale initiatives went awry, at least for today. On
Monday night, the State Department announced that Secretary Madeleine K.
Albright would provide $6 million to help the Mexicans train new drug agents.
But Mr. Madrazo, apparently concerned that strings might be attached, said today
that he still had not decided whether to accept the money. And when Mr. Zedillo
was asked about the proposed grant today, he seemed unaware of it.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, along with President
Ernesto Zedillo, reviewing troops during a welcoming ceremony in Mexico City.
(pg. A1); President Clinton and President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico listened to
the reading of joint statements at a news conference yesterday in Mexico City.
They agreed on cooperation on anti-drug efforts and border issues. (Associated
Press) (pg. A8)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              317 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Help Hispanic New Yorkers Become Citizens

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 293 words



To the Editor:

We have read with interest your May 6 front-page article "Giuliani Proposes That
New York Help Immigrants Become Citizens." In our report "Nuestra America en
Nueva York: The New Immigrant Hispanic Populations in New York City, 1980-90,"
written for the Ford Foundation in 1995, and in conversations with city
officials, we recommended that the city establish naturalization centers in
high-immigrant areas.

We suggested aggressive naturalization and voter registration campaigns to make
citizenship and voting accessible to Hispanic immigrants.

We also suggested that these centers deal with other services that immigrants
need, like English as a Second Language programs. The newest Hispanic immigrant
groups are characterized by low rates of naturalization, and the active Hispanic
electorate in the city is a fraction of its potential magnitude.

The proportions of naturalized citizens among the Hispanic groups in the city
range from 17 percent to 19 percent for Mexicans and Guatemalans to 24 percent
to 26 percent for Colombians, Nicaraguans and Dominicans.

Political party organizations have lagged in efforts to naturalize new
immigrants. It is in the interest of democratic pluralism that Hispanic people
should naturalize and take a more active part in New York politics. We commend
the Mayor for his efforts in this direction and urge him to go further and
develop a comprehensive policy on the incorporation of immigrants and their
children into the city's political, economic and social fabric.

ORLANDO RODRIGUEZ
ANGELO FALCON
Bronx, May 6, 1997

The writers are, respectively, a professor of sociology at Fordham University
and the president and founder of the Institute for Puerto Rican Policy.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              318 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 8, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

For Mexicans, Clinton's Visit Is a Serenade

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 770 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 7


Midterm federal elections may be approaching here, but no politician has been
campaigning harder over the last three days for the trust and approval of the
Mexican people than the President of the United States.

And the way Mr. Clinton has waged his exhausting campaign, in the first visit of
his Presidency to a Latin American nation, has illuminated much about domestic
politics, here and in the United States.

Today Mr. Clinton shook innumerable hands in an ancient village, where his
motorcade was drenched in red, white and blue confetti and he sang "Cielito
Lindo" along with a crowd of 6-year-olds. He has been dropping more and more
Spanish into his public remarks. "Mexico," by this afternoon, had become
"MAY-hee-co."

At every opportunity Mr. Clinton has assured Mexicans that the United States
respects their country and recognizes that Americans must do more to squelch
demand for drugs -- themes that are at least neutral if not popular at home.

But Mr. Clinton's eagerness to accommodate Mexican concerns reached its limits
on illegal immigration, an issue that roils politics in the United States.
Today, in a formal address to the Mexican people, he defended a new American
immigration law that is unpopular in Mexico and Central America.

"We must also take effective action to stop illegal immigration," Mr. Clinton
said. "We are a nation of immigrants and of laws. Just as those who obey our
laws are welcome, those who break them must face the consequences."

[Late Wednesday, Mr. Clinton flew to San Jose, Costa Rica, where he arrived just
before midnight for a meeting of Central Amerian leaders on Thursday.]

Mr. Clinton's visit seems sure to strengthen the hand of President Ernesto
Zedillo, two months before his party could face the most serious challenge to
its 70-year dominance of Mexican politics. Today, as Mr. Clinton finished his
address, the two Presidents and their wives basked side-by-side in a thunderous
ovation -- not a bad image for any leader seeking to advertise himself as a
respected and popular statesman.

As cameras recorded another scene in the 500-year-old village of Tlaxcala later
this afternoon, Mr. Clinton grabbed for hands along a rope line with Mr. Zedillo
right beside him. By the time the two Presidents waded in among the singing
children, even the famously reserved Mr. Zedillo had begun to grin.

The two Presidents have also had more somber, and for Mexicans deeply symbolic,
moments together. On Tuesday Mr. Clinton became the first American President
since Harry S. Truman to visit the monument to the Ninos Heroes, or Boy Heroes
-- cadets who died defending Mexico City against the United States 150 years
ago. As a military band played both nations' anthems and 27 cadets fired a
volley to honor the dead, the Presidents stood beside a wreath at the site. They
did not say a word.

Mr. Clinton said on Tuesday that he was not meddling in Mexican politics. "The
judgments in the election are for the Mexican people to make," he said.

Any diplomat, of course, would emphasize common ground, and Mr. Clinton has not
aimed his empathy only at Mexicans. Looking ahead to his visit to Barbados later
this week, Administration officials are calling the United States a "Caribbean
nation," because of its Virgin Islands. And in an interview with
Spanish-language networks on Monday, Mr. Clinton even tried to throw a bouquet
to the Cubans, noting that Americans admire them for their spirit and "for their
baseball playing ability."

But Administration officials said the President was particularly intent on
salving Mexicans' pride, bruised by the brawl in Washington earlier this year
over whether Mexico was doing enough in the fight against drugs. To that end,
Mr. Clinton has over and over stressed his "respect" for Mexico.

In the first applause line of this 23-minute speech here today, Mr. Clinton
declared, "We seek a peaceful, prosperous partnership filled with respect and
dignity."

In his speech, Mr. Clinton, like Mr. Zedillo before him, argued that the North
American Free Trade agreement had greatly benefited both the United States and
Mexico. But while he declared that "we must include more nations in our
partnership," President Clinton did not elaborate on his plans to bring in
Chile, as his Administration hopes to do this year.

"He'll do that in the course of this year," said Michael D. McCurry, the White
House press secretary. "At the moment, we're working hard to codify the balanced
budget agreement." By 2005, the Administration aims to bring every Latin
American nation into a free-trade zone.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              319 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 10, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Mixed Messages on Benefits;
Immigrants Don't Know What to Believe About S.S.I.

BYLINE: By JOE SEXTON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1862 words


Two years ago, the Federal Government sponsored advertisements broadcast on
foreign-language radio stations telling immigrants to apply for Supplemental
Security Income -- the 23-year-old welfare program for the elderly and disabled.
Last year, President Clinton signed a welfare reform law that denies the
benefits to immigrants who are not citizens. Government letters, 85,000 of them
to New Yorkers, warned immigrants that the checks that sustain them, which
average $410 a month, would end this August.

One week ago yesterday, political leaders in Washington annouced an agreement to
continue benefits to disabled noncitizens. While they disagree about whether new
immigrants would be eligible, as many as four out of five of those who faced
cuts would have benefits restored. But as some politicians cautioned that last
week's agreement may be unraveling, social workers in New York were warning
immigrants that nothing is certain.

In Southside, a Brooklyn neighborhood of immigrants from Ecuador and Russia,
Bulgaria and Cuba, uncertainty is the one thing the elderly and disabled know
they can count on.

Maria Reyes Gonzalez, 76, an immigrant from the Dominican Republic, counts her
S.S.I. checks as her sole income. The front room of her Southside apartment had
been an improvised war room over recent months. Grandchildren calculated how
much they could contribute if she lost benefits, which she receives because she
is elderly. Returning to the Dominican Republic was broached. Hard information
was never in great supply.

The agreement in Washington last week, if it holds, will mean that Ms. Gonzalez,
whose failing eyesight is among a number of her physical impairments, will have
to prove she is disabled to maintain her monthly benefits of $470 a month.

"God is big," Ms. Gonzalez said, with a trembling smile. "God knows what he is
doing."

The deal worked out by the White House and Republican leaders has allowed
lawmakers to ease worries about disabled immigrants being left penniless and
homeless. Many Republicans regard the agreement as a reasonable price for
preserving a larger end: eliminating S.S.I. as an open-ended welfare program for
noncitizens.

When modest dancing broke out in the building at 204 Ross Street May 2 after the
budget agreement was announced, Danilda Suncar, 83, did not join in. Instead,
the immigrant from the Dominican Republic sat in her kitchen and tried to figure
out what to trust. She had her S.S.I. check, gained because of her age, but she
also had a pacemaker and heart problems. Would that be enough to qualify for
benefits for the disabled? She had spent the last several months studying for
the citizenship exam -- naturalization would preserve her benefits -- but also
talking of arriving "at the hour of death."

"They say this; they say that," Ms. Suncar said of the lawmakers. "I know
nothing."

The welfare legislation signed by President Clinton last August eliminated
S.S.I. benefits for roughly 500,000 legal immigrants who are not citizens --
85,000 of whom lived in New York City. The reasons included concerns about
abuse, a desire to set limits on what noncitizens could demand from the
Government and enormous budgetary savings. The cuts accounted for $13.5 billion
of the act's $55 billion in long-term savings.

The budget agreement, however, would rework the entire landscape again,
restoring $10 billion of the $13.5 billion over the next five years. That means
some immigrants would not receive benefits.

Under the agreement, legal immigrants who were receiving S.S.I. as of Aug. 22,
1996 because of a disability -- estimated to be 40 percent of the 500,000 --
would keep their checks and Medicaid coverage. The disabled among the other 60
percent, who receive S.S.I. because of their age, would be able to reapply for
disability benefits. Congressional budget officials say they believe two-thirds
of those applicants would qualify.

In all, then, as many as 400,000 of the 500,000 could be spared.

Senior lawmakers and Congressional staffers predicted there would be disputes as
the proposed S.S.I. restorations move toward actual legislation. The agreement
says that immigrants who were here legally on Aug. 22, 1996, who become disabled
in the future would also be eligible. Some Republicans have said they would seek
to strike that provision. There is a dispute over future immigrants. The White
House's view is that S.S.I. will continue to be offered to all immigrants who
come here legally and wind up disabled. Republicans say they have not promised
aid to new immigrants.

"There is a lot about the deal that gives me indigestion," said Representative
E. Clay Shaw, a Republican from Florida who was a chief sponsor of the welfare
reform legislation. "But there are limits. S.S.I. will be ended as pension plan
for third world countries. We are not giving on that."

John Clark, a spokesman for the city's Social Security Administration office,
predicted that the agreement would require a vast review of thousands of cases.
"It is not going to be a picnic," he said.

There are plenty of calculations to be done in a neighborhood like Southside,
where roughly 900 elderly or impaired adults were set to lose their monthly
checks. Not everyone would be protected, and no one knows how easy -- or
difficult -- it would be for those who need to requalify, this time citing
disability instead of age. Moreover, the budget deal would not restore food
stamps or Medicaid to legal immigrants without disabilities.

The budget agreement would also retain the toughened eligibility requirements
for disabled children. Roughly 15,000 children in the city who receive S.S.I.
have been notified that they would likely lose their subsidies because their
behavioral problems or learning difficulties like attention deficit disorder are
no longer considered sufficiently severe. Many of those children live in
Southside.

Many immigrants who feared they would lose benefits already face practical
problems. Nursing homes, fearing payment hangups, have denied beds to S.S.I.
recipients lacking citizenship. One Brooklyn landlord, Isaac Heitz, said he had
refused apartments to 20 legal immigrants on S.S.I., saying that to grant the
apartments "doesn't make business sense."

The word of mouth that has been most efficient at spreading fear across
Southside has been slow to spread much relief. In classrooms and apartment
bedrooms in Southside, immigrants gathered and studied citizenship exam sheets.
Citizenship is the one absolute way to continue receiving benefits, and nothing
about the budget agreement is expected to slow the flood of applications at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. At Transfiguration Roman Catholic
Church, a list was kept of households willing to take in immigrants who were
losing benefits, a list that will be kept no matter what the budget agreement
says.

Justina Garcia could well need to take advantage of the list. Ms. Garcia, 72,
came to Southside as a Mariel boatlift refugee from Cuba in 1980, and has
received S.S.I. for years. While suffering from serious health problems, she
obtained her S.S.I. because of her age. She lives in a housing project apartment
with her nephew. The boy, Roberto Caraballo, 7, has been told he will lose his
S.S.I. subsidy because his disability, a slight walking problem and
hyperactivity, do not meet the toughened criteria.

Ms. Garcia has taken a citizenship exam. She believes she did well. She could
keep her $400 a month. It could well not be enough. Her rent is $270 a month.
She and her nephew have no other income.

"We hope," she said. "What else is there to do?"

Others plainly do not know what took place last week. Ida Steinmetz, a
caseworker at the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg, the main social
services office for Southside's Hasidim, did not as of two days ago know any of
the details of the agreement. Thus a client, Micha Katz, 76, a Russian
immigrant, remained in his apartment on South 10th Street, angry and alone.

Indeed, interviews with immigrant S.S.I. recipients, both before the budget
agreement and after, underscore how disconnected they are from the the political
debate, how far they are from Washington.

When the initial reform legislation was signed into law last year, the memories
of the immigrants were fresh with the recollection of Government workers only
months before signing up as many immigrants as they could for S.S.I. Those
legitimately receiving the benefits, many of whom had paid taxes for years,
never hid their sense of appreciation for what they freely called generosity.
Thus, they felt bewildered but powerless when they began receiving termination
notices. They do not vote, often do not speak English, certainly do not have
easy informational access to Washington.

"It has all happened so fast," said Gloria Guerrero, 63. She has received S.S.I.
-- $560 a month -- for five years because of a herniated disc.

"I had worked. I had decided I would work again somehow if I had to," Ms.
Guerrero said. "I decided to accept what they had said would happen. Now, they
change their minds. They are the ones in a limbo state. They have passed so many
laws they don't know how to implement them."

The Federal Government created S.S.I. in 1974, replacing more than 1,000 state
programs assisting elderly, blind or disabled people with impoverished incomes.
Over the years, however, the program increasingly became a retirement and
disability fund for many new immigrants.

A 1995 investigation by the General Accounting Office reported that some
immigrants were being coached to feign mental illness to obtain benefits, with
the coach then demanding kickbacks. Social Security Administration officials
acknowledge that some people came from other countries, signed up for benefits
and left, their money forwarded.

And because household income is not considered in determining eligibility, the
question of legitimate need has always been thorny. A 1995 analysis of census
data by The New York Times showed that 20 percent of the nation's foreign-born
S.S.I. recipients lived in households with incomes above $50,000.

The welfare reform law eliminating benefits came on the heels of what had been a
Government effort to increase S.S.I. participation, including the
foreign-language radio advertisements. Public school officials in New York City
were trying last year to move children from public assistance to S.S.I. as a way
of limiting costs to the city.

All of those efforts washed over Southside, making the legislation of last
August perplexing as well as unnerving. Now, there is an alternative, if mostly
comforting, twist to comprehend.

"I was always grateful for what this country gave me," Ms. Suncar, a widow,
said. "I owe my life to this country. That's why it felt like entrapment when
they said they were taking it all back. Now, I suppose they realized how many of
us there were. I think they panicked."

Welfare Neighborhood

This is the fifth in a series of articles describing how an array of changes in
welfare policy are coming together in one Brooklyn neighborhood, Southside, in
Williamsburg.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: WELFARE NEIGHBORHOOD: Change Comes to Southside.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Reyes Gonzalez, 76, could lose her Supplemental Security
Income check, her only source of money. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg.
21); Both Justina Garcia, 73, and her nephew, Roberto Caraballo, 7, stood to
lose their Supplemental Security Income benefits under the new rules. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times)(pg. 22)

Graphs: "A CLOSER LOOK: Benefits at Risk for Legal Immigrants"
Although under the new budget agreement in Washington some benefits cut by the
Welfare Reform Act would be restored, thousands of children and legal immigrants
in New York City would still lose Supplemental Security Income (S.S.I.)
benefits. Graphs show percentage of foreign-born elderly from each country
receiving S.S.I., for selected countries and number of immigrants who were
expected to lose S.S.I. benefits, for the five boroughs. About a third would
still lose benefits under the agreement. (Sources: Analysis of 1990 Census data
by Andrew Beveridge, professor of sociology at Queens College; Social Security
Administration)(pg. 22)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              320 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 11, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Giuliani's Plan To Ease Way To Citizenship Is Questioned

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1334 words


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's $12 million plan to help turn immigrants into
citizens might well be good for the immigrants and for New York City. It would
probably be good for the Mayor himself.

The need for quick action is great. More than 130,000 elderly and poor
immigrants in the city are expected to lose Federal social welfare benefits
unless they become citizens. And the city will have to take on the financial
burden of aiding those immigrants who are cut off by the Federal Government.

The question is who can do the best job of helping immigrants -- many of them
old and infirm -- through the tricky shoals of law and bureaucracy to
citizenship.

The Mayor wants the city itself to do the job. As part of his budget proposal
submitted to City Council last week, he has proposed that the city set up six
offices in neighborhoods that are heavily immigrant communities. He favors the
hiring of 100 to 200 new city workers who he says would be trained in the
intricacies of the naturalization process by volunteer lawyers.

And in the tradition of New York City politics, his plan would help the
politician who dreamed the whole thing up, the Mayor himself, insuring that
thousands of immigrant families would give him credit for helping a grandmother,
or an aging uncle, or a laid-off brother, become a citizen, and, through that
status, receive much-needed Federal checks for food stamps or Supplemental
Security Income.

Students of the city's political history say the plan is of a piece with the
past. "In some ways, it reminds me of what the old-fashioned political machines
did in New York City at the turn of the century," said Philip Kasinitz, a
sociologist at Hunter College.

Advocates for immigrants -- mindful of the Mayor's considerable power over
grants to the nonprofit groups some of them head -- are careful to credit Mr.
Giuliani for the considerable money he has proposed spending on his citizenship
initiative, as well as for his championing of immigrants in national forums. But
they question whether the Mayor's way is the best way to help immigrants become
citizens. They say the city could most quickly and effectively help immigrants
naturalize by contracting with the nonprofit agencies that have already
shepherded immigrants to citizenship. Those agencies are the ones who already
have the experience, the ties to immigrant communities and the understanding of
the sometimes arcane quirks of immigration laws and of the bureaucracy to do the
job. They also have offices and trained staff in place.

But administration officials say they plan to open at least three of the six new
city offices, under the aegis of the city's Department for Youth and Community
Development, as soon as July 1, probably in public hospitals or city welfare
offices. The Mayor's Office of Immigrant Affairs plans to hand out 600,000
"information packages" to immigrants explaining the effects of the new Federal
welfare and immigration laws. In addition to the facts, the packages would
undoubtedly convey by their very existence that the Mayor cares.

And the nonprofit agencies that serve immigrants would get a piece of the pie,
too. The Mayor has proposed using $3 million of the $12 million citizenship
budget to contract with them for the civics and English classes immigrants will
need to win their citizenship.

The goal of the new city effort would be to naturalize the immigrants who are
expected to lose their Federal benefits in the fall.

Mayoral aides recoil as if in horror at the suggestion that the plan was, in
part, intended for the Mayor's political benefit. "This is being done because
it's good for the legal immigrants at risk, it's the right thing to do and it's
good for New York," said Anthony Coles, senior adviser to Mr. Giuliani.

The Mayor himself, after delivering a paean to immigrants in an address to the
American Jewish Congress in Washington last week, said that he believed city
workers directly answerable to him would do a better job helping immigrants
negotiate the Federal immigration system than an uneven collection of nonprofit
groups. "We need some centralized control," he said. "I'll keep track of this on
a daily basis and make sure it happens."

Mr. Guiliani knows from personal experience that nonprofit groups can be an
unruly bunch that is difficult to control. Last year, his administration got
into a fractious dispute with a number of them and their allies at the City
Council over the city's awarding of contracts for immigrant services.

After an umbrella group representing the nonprofits, as well as groups that work
with Hispanic immigrants, accused Mr. Giuliani's staff of rewarding his
political supporters by giving contracts to Jewish agencies, the administration
canceled all the contracts and rebid them. City officials said at the time that
there were technical problems with the original contracting process, and they
denied that there had been any political favoritism.

A year after that clash, leaders in the nonprofit sector are more cautious in
their assessments of the Mayor. Asked whether Mr. Giuliani might have decided to
have the city do the job because he felt burned by last year's contretemps,
Margie McHugh, executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an
advocacy organization for nonprofit groups, said, "In my own mind, I haven't
figured that out."

Manuel Matos, executive director of the Northern Manhattan Coalition for
Immigrant Rights, which serves mostly Dominicans, was somewhat bolder. Mr.
Matos's group was one of those that lost its city funding in the round of bids
that was canceled, though he won a contract in the next round. He has since
joined Mr. Giuliani's Immigration Coalition.

"Given that this Mayor is high on privatization of city services, it seems
awkward that he would try to set up new city offices when there are already
community-based organizations on the front lines," he said.

There is a lot of money up for grabs compared with years past. This fiscal year,
city officials estimate that the City spent less than $2 million for citizenship
efforts. Next year, the sum spent on such efforts is likely to reach $18
million, counting city, state and philanthropic contributions -- funneling
thousands more people into the already clogged naturalization process.

Unless the Federal Government does what the Mayor has urged and matches the
intensified efforts in the city with resources of its own, the wait for
citizenship is likely to grow even longer than the current 10 to 12 months.
There is already a backlog of more than 100,000 applicants in the service's New
York district.

Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban Research Center at New York University,
believes the Mayor's plan is a masterstroke politically, as well as plain old
good government. It gives Mr. Giuliani and the Republican Party he belongs to a
chance to build what Mr. Moss called their own "Rainbow Coalition," while
simultaneously helping immigrants.

"It's an election year and it gives him a natural way to have a direct presence
in the immigrant communities," Mr. Moss said. "This is what elected officials
should do -- try to find a way to connect with voters."

Muzaffar Chishti, director of the immigration project at the Union of
Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, sees risks for the Mayor. He
said that a hastily put together city program would ill serve immigrants and
could boomerang on Mr. Giuliani. "These poor immigrants already have to deal
with a burdensome Federal bureaucracy," Mr. Chishti said. "Now they're going to
have to deal with city bureaucrats who are likely to be, at best, minimally
trained."

But Deputy Mayor Ninfa Segarra says the city is single-mindedly committed to
doing a first-rate job, whatever it takes. If problems crop up, she says, they
will be solved.

"It's better to move forward and get the answers along the way," she said, "than
to hold up the process and not have the immigrants in the citizenship pipeline."


LOAD-DATE: May 11, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 1997, Saturday

CORRECTION:

A news analysis article on Sunday about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's $12 million
plan to help immigrants become citizens misidentified a group that he addressed
last week on the subject of immigration. It was the American Jewish Committee,
not the American Jewish Congress.


GRAPHIC: Map: "OVERVIEW: Signing Up New Citizens"
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has proposed opening six offices in neighborhoods
around the city to help immigrants become citizens.

1. Kingsbridge

4,000 immigrants

1,500 from the Dominican Republic

2. Washington Heights

28,800 immigrants

23,700 from the Dominican Republic

3. Jackson Heights/Elmhurst

22,700 immigrants

4,100 from China, Taiwan and Hong Kong

4. Lower East Side

7,100 immigrants

1,100 from China, Taiwan and Hong Kong

5. East Flatbush/Midwood

20,500 immigrants

6,600 from countries in the former Soviet Union

6. Sheepshead Bay/Brighton Beach

12,100 immigrants

8,900 from countries in the former Soviet Union

Map of the five boroughs of New York City shows concentration of new immigrants
(1990-94) by zip code.

(Source: Department of City Planning) (pg. 30)

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              321 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 17, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 2;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 46 words


A news analysis article on Sunday about Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's $12 million
plan to help immigrants become citizens misidentified a group that he addressed
last week on the subject of immigration. It was the American Jewish Committee,
not the American Jewish Congress.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              322 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 18, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ACADEMY'S REPORT SAYS IMMIGRATION BENEFITS THE U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1031 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 17


Immigration produces substantial economic benefits for the United States as a
whole but slightly reduces the wages and job opportunities of low-skilled
American workers, especially high school dropouts, the National Academy of
Sciences said today.

In an authoritative report on one of the more explosive issues facing social
scientists and politicians, the panel concluded that immigration added perhaps
$10 billion a year to the nation's economic output. "Those who buy goods and
services produced by immigrant labor also benefit," it said, because prices are
lower than they would otherwise be.

The panel said that the job prospects of low-skilled native-born workers were
sometimes hurt by competition with immigrants and that the incomes of
native-born workers tended to fall as a result.

But, it said, the effects are relatively small and are not concentrated in the
areas where immigrants live. Rather, the effects are dispersed across the United
States, in part because low-skilled native-born workers move to other areas of
the country in search of jobs.

The academy's report is a sober, systematic assessment of the economic and
fiscal effects of immigration -- the most comprehensive investigation of the
issue to date. It concludes that immigration is neither a panacea for the
nation's economic problems, as some suggest, nor a source of huge costs, as
others contend.

The panel consisted of 12 experts in economics, demography and sociology, led by
James P. Smith, an economist at the Rand Corporation, a research organization in
Santa Monica, Calif. The study was requested by the United States Commission on
Immigration Reform, which advises Congress on immigration policy.

Mr. Smith said: "It's true that some Americans are now paying more taxes because
of immigration, and native-born Americans without a high school education have
seen their wages fall slightly because of the competition sparked by
lower-skilled, newly arrived immigrants. But the vast majority of Americans are
enjoying a healthier economy as a result of the increased supply of labor and
lower prices that result from immigration."

The panel said it was surprised by one finding: no evidence suggested that
blacks had been especially hurt by immigration or by competition with
immigrants.

To be sure, it said, "some black workers have lost their jobs to immigrants,"
especially in places like New York City and Los Angeles, where they compete for
the same jobs. But immigration does not have a decisive influence on the
economic opportunities of blacks because most blacks do not live in places with
large concentrations of immigrants, it said.

Last year, Congress sharply cut back the Federal benefits available to legal
immigrants, on the assumption that such immigrants cost the Government more than
they paid in taxes.

The academy concluded that immigrants have "a negative fiscal impact at the
state and local level but a larger positive impact at the Federal level,
resulting in an overall positive impact for the United States" in the long run.

In fiscal terms, the panel said, immigrant households are costly at first,
mainly because of the public education costs they impose on state and local
governments. But in 15 or 20 years, it said, immigrants produce fiscal benefits
as they finish school, start working and begin to pay income and payroll taxes.

The panel measured the fiscal burden of immigrants in two states. In New Jersey,
it said, a native-born household pays an average of $232 a year in state and
local taxes to cover the net cost of services used by immigrants, while the
comparable figure for California is $1,178 a year.

But, the panel said, the fiscal impact of immigrants over all is positive
because they tend to arrive as young workers and "will help pay the public costs
of the aging baby boom generation."

Thus, it said, "state and local investments in education pay off in higher tax
payments later in life." Those revenues include Federal taxes for Social
Security and Medicare.

The report also made these observations:

*Immigration will play "the dominant role" in the United States' population
growth in the next half-century. If immigration continues at current levels, it
will account for nearly two-thirds of the expected population growth. The
nation's population is expected to rise by 124 million, to 387 million in 2050
from 263 million in 1995. If immigration continues at current levels, immigrants
and their descendants will account for 80 million of the increase.

*The gap between the wages of immigrants and the wages of native-born workers is
widening. Many recent immigrants come from poorer countries where the average
levels of education, wages and skills are far below those of the United States.

*Immigration has contributed to an increase in the number of high school
dropouts in the United States, and this increase has "lowered the wages of high
school dropouts by about 5 percent." That accounts for "about 44 percent of the
total decline in wages of high school dropouts" from 1980 to 1994.

New Jersey and California both have many immigrants, but the effects differ.
Thomas J. Espenshade, a panel member who is a professor of sociology at
Princeton University, said that in the 1990 census, immigrants had accounted for
13 percent of the population in New Jersey and 22 percent in California. He said
the typical immigrant in New Jersey was better educated than the typical
immigrant in California.

In New Jersey, the panel said, the average household headed by an immigrant
receives $1,484 a year more in state and local services than it pays in state
and local taxes. In California, that figure is $3,463.

On the average, the panel said, immigrant households have more school-age
children and lower incomes, pay lower state and local taxes and receive more
state-financed social services than households of native-born Americans.

Describing the economic benefits of immigration, the panel said: "Immigrants
increase the supply of labor and help produce new goods and services. But since
they are paid less than the total value of these new goods and services,
domestic workers as a group must gain."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              323 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 24, 1997, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Doubts Cast on Identity of Nigerian Who Says He's a Political Refugee

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1694 words


The Nigerian asylum seeker claims that he fled to America to escape persecution
after his brother was charged with plotting a coup against Nigeria's military
dictatorship. Amnesty International's refugee coordinator and an immigration
official who grilled him for two hours were among those who found him
believable.

But it now appears that the man who calls himself Edwin Mutaru Bulus is an
impostor.

The mother, wife and a younger brother of Lieut. Col. Happy Kefas Bulus, the man
accused two years ago of plotting the coup, were interviewed recently in
Nigeria. They say there is no brother named Edwin, nor a brother by any name who
escaped to the United States after Colonel Bulus's arrest. And they are from
Adamawa State, in northeastern Nigeria, they said, not Kogi State, in central
Nigeria, as the asylum seeker claims.

"If this man wants to get something through using our family name, he should be
denied," said the brother, Ibro Bulus, 38, standing beneath a mango tree in
Kingin, the family's hometown, a small village of thatched mud houses that lacks
electricity and telephones.

Nigerians in Australia and Oregon, and another visiting New York, raised serious
questions about the asylum seeker's identity after reading an April 1 article in
The New York Times that detailed his story. A Nigerian Government official in
New York wrote a letter to The Times, published on May 12, saying that the man
was a fraud.

When told of the Bulus family's account, the asylum seeker, interviewed on
Tuesday at the York County Prison in York, Pa., where he is now being detained,
suggested there must have been two Lieut. Col. Happy Kefas Buluses implicated in
the same coup plot, one from Kogi State, the other from Adamawa.

"The issue before me is a double identity clash," he said.

While assuring her client that "I don't yet disbelieve you," his lawyer, Susan
Toler, of Philadelphia, told him that his story sounded implausible. He has not
budged.

Nigerian Government officials and Nigerian critics of the Government living
abroad said the man's explanation was preposterous.

The case highlights how difficult it can be to establish the identity of people
seeking asylum. The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service does
not have a staff around the globe to investigate the thousands of individual
stories of persecution told each year. Applicants themselves must convince an
asylum officer or immigration judge that they are telling the truth, sometimes
with nothing more than their stories or flimsy evidence.

Their difficulty is compounded when the Government of their country, like that
of Nigeria, is notoriously repressive, say State Department officials and human
rights workers. Individuals must often use false documents to escape. They risk
endangering others still in the country if they later ask for help to gather
evidence. And in some countries, like Nigeria, any document can be bought --
passports, birth certificates and high school diplomas, officials say.

"There's so much fabrication and connivance within the society that it is
difficult to verify identities unless you have a well-known person who someone
from the pro-democracy movement can vouch for," said Adotei Akwei, director of
advocacy for Africa at Amnesty International U.S.A.

The man claiming to be Edwin Bulus, who arrived in May 1995, was not such a
person. And in September 1995, an immigration judge denied his asylum request,
saying he had failed to prove his identity. The asylum seeker testified at the
time that an immigration officer had thrown away his papers after a June 1995
disturbance by detainees had shut down the Esmor detention center in Elizabeth,
N.J., where he was then being held.

This month, the Board of Immigration Appeals reopened the case of the detainee,
who says he is 28, after he submitted new evidence, obtained from contacts in
Nigeria, to establish his identity: a Nigerian passport, an identity card from
the Campaign for Democracy in Nigeria and affidavits from people swearing he is
Happy Bulus's brother.

In April, an immigration officer who specializes in asylum cases interviewed him
in detail about his story, found it credible and recommended his parole.

He is to have a new asylum hearing in Newark on May 30.

The man has told the same story from the start. He claims that he was a student
union activist at the University of Lagos who had been arrested twice in
anti-Government protests. He says he happened to be visiting his brother, Happy
Bulus, at his barracks at the time the Government states the coup was being
planned.

Happy Bulus, a Nigerian Army officer, was charged with coup plotting and
convicted after a secret military trial that State Department officials say was
a politically motivated sham. His death sentence was later commuted to a 25-year
prison term.

The asylum seeker claims that the Nigerian authorities tried to arrest him after
his brother was picked up, but detained his parents instead when they discovered
that he had fled. He maintained that a friend told him that his father had died
in police custody and that his mother had died after her release.

Shortly after his arrival in the United States in 1995, depression was diagnosed
in the man who calls himself Edwin Bulus. A psychiatrist at Esmor attributed his
sadness to the death of his parents and his ordeal in Nigeria.

After the disturbance at Esmor in 1995, the man was moved to the Union County
Jail in Elizabeth, N.J., where he said guards stomped on him and forced him to
kneel naked for hours. Twelve guards from the jail were later indicted for
beating 25 immigration detainees, including the man who says he is Mr. Bulus.

Last February, a prison psychologist wrote a letter on his behalf warning that
his mental state was rapidly deteriorating and that he was not receiving
appropriate treatment in detention.

Last March, Amnesty International took up his cause. The organization issued an
appeal that said, "Mr. Bulus fled Nigeria in the context of the arrest of his
brother, Lieut. Col. Happy Kefas Bulus."

Amnesty International said this week that it was apologizing in a letter to
immigration officials for stating that the man was Colonel Bulus's brother. "We
should have explicitly taken no position on his asylum claim," said Nicholas J.
Rizza, Amnesty's refugee coordinator.

But Mr. Rizza said he still believed that the harshness and length of the young
man's detention, his worsening mental state and the possibility that his proof
of identity was thrown away merit concern.

Serendipity and the Internet both played a role in the unraveling of the asylum
seeker's account.

The April 1 article in The New York Times was distributed on Naijanet
(http://www.buffalo.edu./ ekeh/naijanet.html), an Internet address used by many
expatriate Nigerians. Johnson I. Agbinya, a Nigerian engineer in Australia who
was then president of the Association of Nigerians Abroad, sent a query to his
members about the case and heard back from one in Oregon who said the Bulus
family was from Adamawa State and had no member named Edwin.

And Daniel Richard Mhya, a Nigerian businessman who was in New York when the
article appeared, said he had seen Happy Bulus's father alive in Adamawa State
in December.

In Kingin, where the Bulus patriarch is chief of the Kilba tribe, Aisha Bulus,
63, mother of the 10 Bulus children, including Happy, said on Sunday that the
young man in America "has tarnished the Bulus name by using it for a selfish
end."

And in Jos, Colonel Bulus's wife, Margaret, 39, a bookkeeper, said on Tuesday,
"In my 18 years of marriage to Happy Bulus, I have never seen or heard of any
person called Edwin Mutaru Bulus."

The University of Lagos has no record that an Edwin Bulus attended in 1988 or
1992, the years the asylum seeker claims bracketed his undergraduate career. And
three leaders of the student union there, all of whom were active in 1992, said
they had never heard of anyone named Edwin Bulus.

Even as his original case for asylum appears to be crumbling, the man's quest
for sanctuary here may be taking on new life because of his public criticism of
the Nigerian Government and its recent official interest in him.

Immigration officials say that the young man had told them he did not want to
meet with anyone from the Nigerian Government. But on April 14, Emmanuel
Agbegir, an information officer at the Nigerian Consulate in New York, was
allowed into the York prison for a visit, along with Mr. Mhya, the businessman,
and Gerard Igyor, a Nigerian who teaches at Millersville State College, in
Pennsylvania.

The prisoner apparently did not realize that Mr. Agbegir was from the consulate.
Mr. Mhya and Professor Igyor said that he nervously asked them if they were
agents of the Nigerian Government. They assured him they were not.

Asked if the detainee had been aware that a representative of the Government was
present, Mr. Mhya said, "He definitely wasn't. That's why he told me what he
told me."

Mr. Agbegir, the Nigerian official, said, "Why would I tell him who I was? It
was Daniel who spoke to him."

The three visitors say that the asylum seeker admitted that he was not related
to Happy Bulus. But the detainee said in an affidavit that he had refused to
answer their questions and claimed that he had been told he was "in big trouble"
with the military Government for criticizing it in the newspaper. The man's
lawyer, Ms. Toler, now maintains that her client's criticism of the Government
and the prison visit show that "whoever this person is, he's in danger. He's
been targeted."

But Mr. Agbegir, of the Nigerian Information Service, said the asylum seeker
would not be in danger if he were deported. "That I can guarantee," he said.
"All we're trying to do is clear the country's name."

Mr. Agbinya, the Nigerian in Australia who helped discredit the young man,
disagreed. "By allowing the Nigerian authorities to visit him," Mr. Agbinya
said, "he has been exposed to future repression by the Nigerian authorities if
deported. As much as I helped to expose his lies, I also feel that this fact
should be made known."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The man who says he is Edwin Bulus in a police videotape in
1995.

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              324 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 25, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Report Oversells Immigration's Meager Benefits;
Better Birth Control

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 126 words



To the Editor:

A recent report by the National Academy of Sciences (front page, May 18)
assessed the costs and benefits of immigration. It is useful to place
immigration in the context of domestic population growth.

The 1.5 million births resulting from unplanned pregnancies will have a greater
population impact this year than the 916,000 legal immigrants who reach our
shores. Unplanned pregnancy can impose real suffering on individuals and
families. The costs to society are great as well.

Sex education and contraceptive availability can do more to achieve population
stabilization than any amount of tinkering with immigration levels.

PETER H. KOSTMAYER
Executive Director
Zero Population Growth
Washington, May 20, 1997

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              325 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 25, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Report Oversells Immigration's Meager Benefits;
Help Workers Compete

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words



To the Editor:

In your May 18 front-page article on the National Academy of Sciences
immigration report, James P. Smith, who led the study, is quoted as saying that
though native-born Americans without a high school education have seen their
wages fall slightly, the vast majority of Americans are enjoying a healthier
economy. The 1990 Census found that 44 million Americans (about 25 percent of
the adult population at that time) did not have a high school degree.

Mr. Smith may be right about the vast majority, but a very significant portion
of our adult population has seen wages decline over 15 years.

The solution is not controls on immigration but opportunities for adults to
improve basic skills, pass the high school equivalency exam and enter skill
training or community college. Unfortunately, all of the Federal, state, local
and private money available for these programs is less than $1 billion per year,
or $23 per person without a high school degree. If we add to the 44 million
those Americans with a high school degree but literacy skills below a
ninth-grade level, the per-person expenditure drops to less than $15.

We are becoming a country of two populations -- one with the education to
compete in the global market for good wages and benefits, and the other whose
education leaves them competing against recent immigrants and workers in
low-wage countries. This is unacceptable to decent people and dangerous for our
national future.

We cannot increase wages with tax cuts that produce more low-wage jobs, but we
can do it with investments in the education of both our native-born and
immigrant work force.

JOHN P. COMINGS
Cambridge Mass., May 19, 1997

The writer is director of the National Center for the Study of Adult Learning
and Literacy at Harvard.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              326 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 25, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Report Oversells Immigration's Meager Benefits

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 217 words



To the Editor:

Anyone who reads beyond the first two paragraphs of "Academy's Report Says
Immigration Benefits the U.S." (front page, May 18) has to wonder, What
benefits?

The alleged benefit appears to be a $10 billion annual increase in gross
national product in a $7 trillion economy. That is a one-seventh of 1 percent
increase. The cost of that minimal boost is massive population growth, loss of
wages among less-skilled Americans, an increase in the high school dropout rate,
exacerbation of the wealth gap and substantial tax burdens for state and local
governments. Is it really worth it?

The other alleged benefit, according to the academy, is that immigrants will pay
for the retirement of baby boomers. Low-wage immigrants, who are heavily
dependent on social services, will finance the retirement of affluent retirees?

The academy overlooks another obvious fact: Immigrants get old, too. Within a
few years of the baby boomers' retirement, we'll have to figure out how to pay
for Social Security for a lot of elderly immigrants.

A better headline for this article might have been "Academy's Report Says
Immigration Benefits Some in the U.S., at Great Expense to Most."

DAN STEIN
Exec. Dir., Federation
for American Immigration Reform
Washington, May 19, 1997

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              327 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 27, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants and the Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words


The presence of immigrants in the work force is raising the living standards of
most Americans by a small amount. That reassuring conclusion comes from a panel
of scholars convened by the National Research Council. But job competition from
immigrants depresses the wages of some low-paid native workers by a small
amount, and immigrants impose sizable, though remediable, burdens on taxpayers
in heavily hit states. These findings should calm most anxieties over
immigration while pointing Congress to some sensible reforms.

The panel estimates that the yearly influx of about one million immigrants adds
up to $10 billion of total economic output, more than the immigrants collect in
wages. But $10 billion is a tiny part of a $7 trillion economy, and the estimate
is best interpreted as evidence that immigrants do not harm native workers. The
panel also estimated that immigrant workers pay more in Federal taxes than they
collect in government services.

But immigrants, especially those who are poor and have children, do put a
substantial burden on some states, like California, and some cities, like New
York, because of their numbers. The panel estimates that an immigrant family in
California collects about $3,000 more in public services, including school, than
it pays in taxes. Native households in California therefore pay about $1,000 a
year in taxes, on average, to provide services to immigrants. An obvious
solution would be for Washington to compensate heavily burdened states.

The most troubling, though unsurprising, finding of the report was the burden on
low-paid native workers. As the immigrant pool has switched to the relatively
poor countries of Latin America from the relatively rich countries of Europe,
the supply of low-wage workers has risen. The panel estimates that competition
has driven down the wages of native high school dropouts by about 5 percent
since 1980, less than many scholars had thought. Most black Americans, the panel
finds, have escaped much harm because they do not generally live in pockets of
heavy immigration.

As birth rates continue their steady decline, immigrants are expected to account
for most of the nation's population rise over the next five decades. Indeed,
young immigrant workers will help provide the tax revenues with which state and
Federal governments will support the burgeoning ranks of retirees. But Congress
need not stand aloof as steady immigration strains local government and harms
low-paid native workers. Congress could give preference to immigrants who are
highly educated or otherwise highly skilled because they would demand fewer
social services and pay high taxes, thereby relieving the strain on local
governments, yet not threaten unskilled workers.

The panel did not make policy recommendations. But its careful analysis suggests
how Congress could tailor the composition of immigrants to minimize the strain
on taxpayers and the burdens on poor native workers.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              328 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 29, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Skilled or Not, Immigrants Aid U.S. Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 238 words



To the Editor:

Your May 27 editorial "Immigrants and the Economy" makes a number of important
points, but its policy recommendations could undermine the goals you espouse.

You call for new policies that stress the admission of "highly educated" or
"highly skilled" immigrants. Yet newcomers, especially in New York, integrate
into the economy through kinship and family networks. Current policies stressing
family unification have created the very portals to the economy that have
produced the benefits you praise.

You note that despite their positive national economic impact, immigrants are
costly to localities like New York. But this is true only in the short run.
After a period of adjustment, immigrants and their children move up the economic
ladder, creating new enterprise and filling economic voids.

Maximizing immigrants' contributions requires full integration into American
society. Congress has focused only on internal management issues in the
naturalization program and not on the slowdown that has more than doubled the
waiting time for a citizenship application, to more than a year in most large
cities.  When immigrants want to contribute to their new country, we should
welcome them rather than erect new barriers to full membership in our society.

GARY E. RUBIN
New York, May 27, 1997

The writer is director of public policy for the New York Association for New
Americans.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              329 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 29, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Skilled or Not, Immigrants Aid U.S. Economy;
Pandering to Bias

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 108 words



To the Editor:

Your May 27 editorial "Immigrants and the Economy" pointed out the lack of
foundation for anti-immigrant sentiments based upon the economy. Such sentiments
are sadly widespread and have even found a place in the New York State Lottery's
promotion of one of its products. One ad reads: "In 2007 intelligent life will
be discovered on Mars. Then they'll come here and take your job." When the
government of a state with a high immigrant population panders to anti-immigrant
prejudice in such a fashion, it's clear that much needs to be done to re-educate
ourselves and our leaders.

DANIEL S. WEIR
Buffalo, May 27, 1997

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              330 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 29, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Calendar: Textile And Photo Exhibitions

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Home Desk

LENGTH: 291 words



Textiles and Prints
Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Washington Avenue; (718)
638-5000.

On Wednesday, three examples of Andean textiles dating from 100 B.C. -- two
embroidered mantles and a skirt made in the Paracas region of Peru -- will go on
display in a rotating exhibition featuring ceramics and textiles. An exhibition
of about 40 handbags made between the 16th and 19th centuries will remain on
display through June 22.

An exhibition of works on paper acquired within the last 10 years will start on
June 7 and continue through Sept. 28. The works in the exhibition of screen
prints, drawings, photographs, etchings and lithographs include ones by
Elizabeth Murray, John Singer Sargent, Emmet Gowin and Louise Bourgeois.

Open Wednesday through Friday, 10 A.M. to 5 P.M.; Saturday, 11 A.M. to 9 P.M.;
Sunday, 11 A.M. to 6 P.M. Admission is $4; students, $2; those 62 and older,
$1.50; children under 12, no charge.

Images of Immigration
Jewish Museum, Fifth Avenue at 92d Street; (212) 423-3230.

"Points of Entry," an exhibition of 208 photographs about immigrants in the
United States, will be at the museum through Aug. 17. Photographers featured in
the exhibition whose work chronicles the history of immigration include Ansel
Adams, Dorothea Lange and Jacob Riis.

There are also works by photographers who have themselves immigrated to the
United States, including Robert Frank, Lisette Model and Marion Palfi, and
images and artwork about contemporary immigrants by Komar & Melamid, Carrie Mae
Weems and Kim Yasuda.

Open Sunday through Thursday, 11 A.M. to 5:45 P.M.; Tuesday until 8 P.M.
Admission is $7; students and those 65 and older, $5; children under 12 and
members, no charge.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              331 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 1, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Truly Feel Pressure to Learn English

SECTION: Section 13; Page 19; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 364 words



To the Editor:

Linda Wasson's plaintive piece about Inwood, "English as a Foreign Language"
(Soapbox, May 4) made me think of my own experience.

While I sympathize with her predicament, I want to try to prevent an erroneous
perception from being disseminated. Ms. Wasson is obviously well meaning and not
anti-immigrant. However, from her perspective it must be difficult to understand
what is happening around her. Lack of understanding can lend support to the
"English as an official language" movement, whose goals are detrimental to our
diverse nation.

I emigrated to New York as a 4-year-old with my parents from a Spanish-speaking
country in 1957. I have been an immigration lawyer in New York for 16 years. Our
experience with the English language is similar to that of most immigrant
families. I speak Spanish and English fluently while my younger siblings can
understand Spanish but do not speak it. My parents, who came to New York in
their early 20's to work and better our lives, can speak English well enough to
get by at their jobs but prefer to speak Spanish at home. My grandparents, who
lived in New York for a time and then preferred to go back home, never managed
to learn to speak English.

Immigrant neighborhoods in the city have always served as crude classrooms
helping to assimilate non-English speakers. This is why the men in the bodega
knew some English, at least enough to realize she wanted something to do with
chocolate. And it is why the younger girl working at the McDonald's, obviously a
very recent immigrant, was just beginning her training in her new language.

While I can understand's Ms. Wasson's frustrations in trying to communicate with
her neighbors we must not lose sight that immigrants are under intense,
inexorable pressure to learn to speak English. Those that don't learn don't by
and large make it. But it does take time. If Ms. Wasson were to follow the
progress of her friends at the bodega and the McDonald's, she would probably
find that sooner or later they could find her the chocolate chips and take her
lunch order. That's the way it's always been, and hopefully will stay.


MAURICE AGUIRRE
Turtle Bay

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              332 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 1, 1997, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

CHATTER;
A Desire to Communicate

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 3; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 344 words


Here's what Chatter correspondents thought about Americans studying a foreign
language and immigrants learning English.


Keeping a Heritage Alive

I'd like to study a Native American language like Lakota or Iroquois and learn
something about my heritage that no one really knows. Just to keep it alive.

DOREEN KOFFMAN
West Orange

Thinking Ahead

Chinese because China will be the next world power, and I am a business major so
this will be useful.


ERIC ZAWID
Margate

Crossing a Barrier

I know a little sign language and would like to learn more. I'm glad to see that
signing is becoming more widespread.

A recent Sunday was a remembrance of Pentecost for the Christian Church. On that
day, the Holy Spirit came upon the disciples, and they were given the ability to
speak in other languages so that people from other countries could understand
them.

JANET GASBARRO
Absecon

Only One Official Language

Every American should learn at least one foreign language. But every immigrant
should at least learn English. There is only one official language in the U.S.A.


ANGELO-PETE HORATAGIS
New York City

A Sign of Respect

Americans should study foreign languages. It is a sign of respect.

When I traveled to foreign countries those citizens always make a special effort
to speak English. They are so proud to converse with me. If they are so willing
to study my language, I am willing to study theirs.  Studying a foreign language
is not studying just words and sentence structures, but it is also studying
their history, their culture, their literature and their philosophy of living.

As we learn more about others through their language, the more we come closer to
a universal language called peace!

MARY J. BERGER
West Orange

To Talk With the Animals

I guess if I could dream to learn any language it would be to speak with a
whale, dolphin, ape, dog, cat, elephant. To hear what they make of how we humans
have been running the planet would fantastic.


DANIEL NAUKE
New York City

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              333 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 9, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

For Taiwan Immigrant, Success Brings Trouble on Political Donations

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1827 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 8


The moment Maria L. Hsia learned how remarkably easy it was to influence the
American political system with a modest amount of money came almost by accident
in 1983.

People who were close to her at the time said Ms. Hsia, a Taiwan-born single
mother without a college degree, was earning hundreds of thousands of dollars a
year by helping wealthy people from Taiwan gain visas to reside in the United
States. But then the business faced a threat.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service rejected some of the visas obtained
at the consulate in American Samoa because of concerns about their legality,
said the people close to her, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. No
improprieties were found, but the immigration agency questioned the surge of
visas from such an unusual location.

Ms. Hsia and two immigration lawyers courted several politicians with donations
of a few thousand dollars each. Then they asked the same politicians -- Senator
Alan Cranston and Representatives Mel Levine, Howard L. Berman and Harry Reid --
to write letters to the immigration agency demanding a end to what Ms. Hsia and
the others described as unfair treatment.

It is unclear what specific influence came from the letters, but they brought a
long reply from a senior immigration service official on Dec. 5, 1983. In a
letter to the Congressmen, the official analyzed in detail the status of each of
the 25 cases Ms. Hsia and her partners had pending before the immigration agency
and assured the Congressmen that all were being handled properly.

"That was when the light went on for her," said a person who knew Ms. Hsia then.
"She said so. She was amazed that with so little money you could do that."

And thus began a political career that soon transformed a resourceful
immigration consultant with a business problem into one of the Democratic
Party's most successful fund-raisers, and an important link to wealthy
Asian-Americans eager for a foothold in Washington.

From all appearances, that career seemed to soar higher in April 1996, when Ms.
Hsia helped organize a fund-raiser attended by Vice President Al Gore, with whom
she had long been acquainted. The event -- which Ms. Hsia arranged with John
Huang, another Asian-American fund-raiser with whom she had long been close --
raised $166,750 in donations at a Buddhist temple near Los Angeles.

But questions over the legality of some of those donations now threaten Ms.
Hsia's political career and have helped push Mr. Huang to the center of Federal
and Congressional investigations of his fund-raising activities on behalf of the
Democrats.

Fund-Raiser at Temple Under Intense Scrutiny

The fund-raiser, at the Hsi Lai Temple in Hacienda Heights, has emerged as one
the most intensive areas of inquiry for both the F.B.I. and Congressional
investigators. Through his lawyers, Mr. Huang has declined to comment. Ms. Hsia
(pronounced SHA) also declined to be interviewed for this article.

The Democratic National Committee has pledged to return $64,000 of the total
amount raised at the temple, saying the sources could either not be confirmed or
their propriety verified. While Mr. Huang played a crucial role setting up the
fund-raiser and in establishing its financial goals, Ms. Hsia was the main
liaison between the Democratic Party and the temple, with which she had long
been close both here and in Taiwan.

Congressional and Federal investigators are examining whether Ms. Hsia arranged
for temple donations to be funneled through the monks and nuns, a violation of
campaign finance laws. Representatives of the temple said in interviews last
week that Mr. Huang, in seeking donations before the event, had given temple
leaders the impression that the more money raised, the longer the Vice President
would visit the temple.

Ginny Terzano, a spokeswoman for Mr. Gore, repeating similar assertions from his
office, said today that he did not know of such a promise or that his visit to
the temple was intended to help raise money for the Democratic Party.

"He had no knowledge of any of this," Ms. Terzano said.

Some temple officials have bitterly complained that they trusted Ms. Hsia, who
had been an adviser for years, and that they made the donations in the names of
monks, nuns and worshipers without understanding that it was improper.

"We were misled," said Yifa, a senior nun and educator at the Hsi Lai Temple,
who holds a doctorate in religion from Yale.

A look at Ms. Hsia's career, pieced together from hundreds of documents filed in
court cases as well as interviews with many people who knew her, suggests how
quickly money can buy enormous influence in the American political system.

By 1988, Ms. Hsia -- who is now 45 and became a United States citizen in July
1986 -- had entered the most elite circles of the Democratic Party. She attended
the Kentucky Derby and the Super Bowl with senators as a reward for her
fund-raising work. In January 1989, she led a fact-finding trip to Taiwan with
Mr. Gore, then a Senator from Tennessee, and later with Ronald H. Brown, then
the chairman of the Democratic National Committee. Around this time, she was
also invited to give expert testimony at a Senate hearing on United States
security interests in Asia.

Ms. Hsia herself donated $22,750 in 1988 and $39,900 to candidates for Federal
office in 1990.

What Ms. Hsia was after personally in her political activities is not clear, but
she gave a hint in testimony in an unrelated civil case, suggesting that her
prominence advanced her immigration business.

"Most immigrants from Asian countries believe that if the firm or the company or
the people they associate with or they retain, if they are politically active,
they have more ability and more power to help them in their case," Ms. Hsia
said, according to the transcript of a case involving a business dispute.

Ms. Hsia's activities appear to have dropped off considerably from 1991 until
1996, when her immigration business also slowed, according to people close to
her. She donated just $6,000 after 1993 to candidates for Federal office,
according to official records.

Then on March, 15, 1996, she ushered the head of the Hsi Lai Temple, along with
several monks and nuns, to a White House meeting with Mr. Gore. Mr. Huang was
also present.

Student Visit Leads To Life in the U.S.

The next month, when a hastily arranged fund-raiser for the Democrats in the
nearby suburb of Monterey Park started to unravel, Ms. Hsia, working with Mr.
Huang, moved the event to the Hsi Lai Temple. Ms. Hsia had long been bringing
politicians there, including Mr. Gore and Representative Patrick J. Kennedy,
Democrat of Rhode Island. She was apparently benefiting by gaining some
immigration work from temple members relocating from Taiwan, where the temple is
based.

Ms. Hsia was born in Taiwan on Aug. 1, 1951. She first entered the United States
in 1973 on a student visa and returned to Taiwan the next year. She came back
Los Angeles in 1975, became a permanent resident, and began working for law
firms as a paralegal, administrator and contact to wealthy people from Taiwan.
She left behind a husband and young son.

In 1979, Ms. Hsia joined a law firm being created by an immigration and personal
injury lawyer, Frederick Fleming. In her own testimony in later civil suits, it
appears that they may have been violating a law that prohibits lawyers from
splitting their fees with nonlawyers.

She testified that she and Mr. Fleming had come up with a tally of the firm's
net income every two weeks and that she had received half of the fees from
immigration clients she brought in. The practice was so lucrative that she
earned more than $630,000 in 1982, her peak year, and she bought herself a
Rolls-Royce and a home in Beverly Hills.

Mr. Fleming denied any fee splitting with Ms. Hsia. He said that she was a
paralegal and that the money he paid her was incentive bonuses and was
discretionary.

Ms. Hsia's income fell sharply after 1982 as fewer people from Taiwan came to
the United States, Mr. Fleming said, and the two parted in April 1986. Ms. Hsia
formed a firm with another immigration lawyer, Howard Hom. They lived together
for several years along with her son.

Ms. Hsia's political fund-raising moved into high gear in 1988. She began
working closely with Mr. Huang, who ran the Bank of Trade (later renamed Lippo
Bank) and was close to its owner, James T. Riady of Indonesia.

Ms. Hsia and Mr. Huang organized an important fund-raiser for the Democratic
Senatorial Campaign Committee on April 22, 1988, at the home of Mr. Riady.
Later, they organized another event at the private St. James Club in Hollywood.

A series of faxes to and from Mr. Riady show that Ms. Hsia and Mr. Huang had a
clear agenda. They wanted help from senators for a number of issues they were
pressing. Ms. Hsia seems to have been most concerned about immigration law,
while Mr. Riady was concerned about trade issues in Asia.

Political Wish List From an Indonesian

Mr. Riady sent Ms. Hsia a detailed memo listing what he hoped to obtain. Among
the items was a desire to sponsor trips by senators to Taiwan and Indonesia,
"the need for the senators to impress upon Taiwan to allow Asian-American banks
(or at least Bank of Trade) to be allowed to open a branch office in Taiwan in
the very near future," appointments of Asian-Americans to Government positions,
help with special immigration cases, and a hope that Government money would be
deposited at Mr. Riady's bank.

Questions have also been raised about the source of earlier donations raised by
Ms. Hsia. In a fax to a Democratic Party official on April 26, 1988, Ms. Hsia
said the name of a man who contributed $5,000, Cheng Yi Chang, could not appear
on official reports and had to be concealed. Next to a photocopy of the check
she wrote, "Cannot report under this name," according to a copy of the document.

In the late 1980's, Congress was battling over a bill that included a provision
limiting the ability of immigrants to bring in family members. Ms. Hsia and Mr.
Huang were among those who fought to roll back the provision. Senator Paul
Simon, an Illinois Democrat who is now retired, gave Ms. Hsia one of the pens
used by President George Bush to sign the bill in 1990.

The bill created a lottery for granting certain visas, and Ms. Hsia and her
business partners received almost $500,000 in fees from about 400 clients who
sought their help.

But Ms. Hsia's business appeared to be souring, and her fund-raising slacked
off. Fund-raisers here mentioned that she was seen less frequently at political
affairs after 1992.

Then Mr. Clinton was elected President in 1992. Mr. Huang joined the Commerce
Department in the summer of 1994 and moved to the Democratic National Committee
in December 1995 as a top fund-raising official. He and Ms. Hsia joined forces
again in April 1996 for the fund-raiser at the Buddhist temple.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 1997, Monday

CORRECTION:

 An article on June 9 discussed political contributions by Maria L. Hsia, an
immigrant from Taiwan, suggesting that the money helped her obtain the influence
of three Democratic Congressmen in immigration cases handled by a law firm with
which she was associated.

The article, and a correction in this space on July 5, referred incorrectly to
correspondence between the three Congressmen and the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

The Congressmen wrote to the agency on Dec. 5, 1983, about problems experienced
by a law firm with which Ms. Hsia was associated. The July 5 correction pointed
out that Representative Howard L. Berman received a total of $800 from the law
firm, not several thousand dollars. And it noted that the agency replied on Feb.
27, 1984, not on Dec. 5. It added that Mr. Berman received the contribution
several months after corresponding with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service about the firm's problems, not before.

The three-page I.N.S. reply, to Representatives Berman and Mel Levine of
California and Harry Reid of Nevada, discussed a dispute with the law firm in
detail, and defended the I.N.S. against charges of harassment.

The reply did not analyze in detail the status of each of the 25 immigration
cases that Ms. Hsia and her associates had pending. Such an analysis did appear
in a separate letter, written by an I.N.S. official to Senator Alan Cranston,
Democrat of California, on June 5, 1985.

Representative Berman should have been asked for a response before the article
was published. Both he and Representative Levine have since said that the errors
in the article undermine its assertion that their help to Ms. Hsia resulted from
political contributions.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maria L. Hsia helped organize a fund-raiser that has embarrassed
Vice President Al Gore. (Jan Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              334 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words



INTERNATIONAL   A3-15

Bosnian City Is Cited In Voter Registration Fraud
International election monitors said that all voter registration centers in the
Bosnian city of Brcko would be closed, the local staff fired, and the process
begun again. Fraud was widespread, they said, with Bosnian Serb officials trying
to maintain control of the town, once predominantly Muslim, by issuing
fraudulent identity papers to Serbian refugees, some of them bused in from
Serbia. Elections were set for September.   A12

New Candidate for Tory Leader
William Hague, the youngest Cabinet member of Britain's former Prime Minister,
John Major, has emerged as the unexpected favorite in a race to be the new
leader of the Conservative Party. Mr. Hague was the choice of the right wing of
the party, which objects to former Chancellor of the Exchequer Kenneth Clarke's
European sympathies.   A11

France to Relax on Immigration
France's new Socialist Government promised to revoke two anti-immigration laws
enacted by the former center-right Administration over the past four years. The
laws sharply curtailed new immigration and promoted deportation of undocumented
foreigners.   A13

Deadly Foe of I.R.A. Is Slain
A prominent former member of a Protestant death squad in Northern Ireland was
shot dead by an unknown assailant. The Royal Ulster Constabulary said that Irish
republican guerrillas did not appear to have been involved in the killing of
Robert Bates, who served 19 years in jail for killing Catholic nationalists.
A10

No Cease-Fire in Brazzaville
Mortar, grenades and machine-gun fire rained down on the capital of the Congo
Republic, paying no evident heed to the orders for a cease-fire given by the two
men battling for control of Brazzaville. Witnesses have reported wanton killing
and looting by both government soldiers and militia troops.   A8

Kenya Elections Questioned
Kenya's general elections will not be fair unless constitutional reforms are
carried out and repressive public-order laws are repealed, according to Amnesty
International. The human rights organization criticized the Government of
President Daniel arap Moi for breaking up opposition rallies and called on
Western countries to flood Kenya with human-rights workers to monitor the
election.   A6

American U.N. Plan Criticized
Diplomats and United Nations officials were less than enthusiastic about the
strings attached to a deal worked out between the Clinton Administration and the
Senate that would allow repayment of a large part of the American debt to the
organization. Several envoys said that not all the demands made by Senators
would be accepted by all 184 member countries.   A9

NATIONAL   A18-24, B12-16

McVeigh's Parents Plead For Jury to Spare His Life
The mother and father of Timothy J. McVeigh were the last two witnesses
presented by lawyers for the defense in their effort to persuade the jury not to
impose the death penalty on the 29-year-old former soldier. Today, prosecutors
and Mr. McVeigh's lawyers will make their closing arguments to the jurors, who
last week found Mr. McVeigh guilty of murder and conspiracy in the bombing of
the Federal Building in Oklahoma City on April 19, 1995.   A1

Welfare Ruling Challenged
Republicans in Congress moved to prevent tens of thousands of welfare recipients
from being covered by the minimum wage. They want to overturn a recent ruling by
President Clinton that guarantees the minimum wage for welfare recipients
participating in "workfare" programs run by public agencies or nonprofit
organizations.   B16

Social Skills Gene Found
Scientists have found preliminary evidence of a gene or genes located on the X
chromosome that might account for some of the greater social skills seen in
girls compared with boys, and, by extension, for boys' higher rate of behavioral
and learning disorders.   A18

Risk Seen in AIDS Drugs
The Government warned doctors that thousands of patients taking the powerful new
AIDS drugs called protease inhibitors should be closely watched for an
unexpected and apparently rare side effect: diabetes. The Food and Drug
Administration stressed that the estimated 150,000 Americans taking protease
inhibitors should not stop the treatment because the diabetes risk appears
fairly small.   A22

Former Governor Cleared
Guy Hunt, the former governor whose criminal conviction in office three years
ago stood out even in the rough-and-tumble world of Alabama politics, was fully
exonerated by the state pardon board he largely appointed.   A18

Cohen Still Seeks Nominee
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said he would not insist that the officer
selected as the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have a "blemish-free"
sexual history, even though an admission of adultery doomed the candidacy of the
Air Force general originally in line for the job. Cohen said he had no regrets
over his handling of the furor that resulted from Gen. Joseph W. Ralston's
acknowledgment that he had had an affair in the 1980's with an employee of the
Central Intelligence Agency.   A24

Committee Seeks Immunity
Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee, the Republican who heads the Senate
committee investigating campaign finance abuses, has told associates that he
wants to grant immunity from prosecution to at least 18 potential witnesses to
obtain their testimony, but Democrats are expected to block the plan.   B13

NEW YORK/REGION   B1-11

Foster Children Trapped In Overworked System
Hundreds of New York City's most troubled children are stranded in city offices,
psychiatric hospitals and private homes because the child welfare system is
virtually filled to capacity. Foster care experts say the situation reflects the
Giuliani Administration's decision to absorb state cuts by slashing payments to
foster care agencies, contributing to the elimination of 400 group-home beds.
A1

Jet Vandalized at Kennedy
Wires underneath the cockpit of a Pan Am plane were cut as it sat on the ground
at Kennedy International Airport hours before it was to leave for Miami. Federal
law enforcement and aviation officials said they had not determined who had
tampered with the wires, but they were looking into whether the damage might
have been done by a worker angry that Pan Am was not using union mechanics.   B1


Man Indicted for Scalping
Complaints from a rock band that the best seats to its shows on Long Island had
been siphoned off to scalpers and ticket brokers led to the indictment of the
former box office manager of the Jones Beach Marine Amphitheater. State Attorney
General Dennis C. Vacco said Joseph Nekola withheld about 400 tickets in the
first 10 rows for two performances last summer by the band Hootie and the
Blowfish and then resold them to brokers.   B8

ARTS   C11-20

 HOME   C1-10

EDITORIAL   A28-29
Editorials: Congo under Laurent Kabila; clean up the flood aid; buckling up --
adults and kids; test troubles at CUNY.
Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

BUSINESS DAY   D1-19

Murdoch to Buy Network
Rupert Murdoch, the man whose Fox Network brought "Married with Children" and
"The Simpsons" to television, agreed to pay $1.9 billion to acquire the cable
channel controlled by Pat Robertson, the religious-right broadcaster.   D1

Estate Tax Becomes Cause
The formidable small-business lobby, led by the National Federation of
Independent Business, has taken an issue that touches relatively few and
relatively wealthy people -- the Federal estate tax -- and pushed it to the top
of the nation's economic agenda.   D1

Business Digest   D1

SPORTS   B18-26

Interleague Games Begin
For the first time in Major League Baseball history, teams from the American
League will play teams from the National League during the regular season. Until
now, teams from both leagues played only in the World Series or in exhibition
games.   B19

OBITUARIES   B17

Sidney Silverstein
A New York carpenter who started at the bottom and became a nationally known
expert in housing rehabilitation and a builder of affordable dwellings was 70.
   B17

Chronicle   D20

Bridge   C11
Crossword   C14

Weather   C11

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              335 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 17, 1997, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

National News Briefs;
Children of Immigrants Are Reported to Do Well

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 16


A long-range study of the children of immigrants found that they had better
grades and lower dropout rates in public schools than students whose parents
were born in the United States.

The study, conducted by Michigan State and Princeton Universities, portrayed
children of immigrants as quick to learn English. Fewer than 6 percent of them
dropped out, compared with 16 percent districtwide.

The researchers followed 5,000 children in San Diego and Miami, starting in
1991.

In San Diego, children with at least one foreign-born parent had grade-point
averages that were higher than average.

Groups that want to control immigration disagreed with the findings.

"What they have found is in direct contradiction to what other studies have
found -- that children of less-educated immigrants tend not to do well in
school," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform in
Los Angeles.

The study also indicated that the longer immigrants' children lived in the
United States, the less time they spent on homework.




LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              336 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 19, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Affirmative Action Comes in Many Guises;
Immigrants' Windfall

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 148 words



To the Editor:

President Clinton, defending affirmative action, notes that "a half-century from
now . . . there will be no majority race in America" (front page, June 15). But
this transformation is happening largely because of a great influx of nonwhite
immigrants who are themselves eligible for affirmative action, despite having no
history of being discriminated against in the United States. American colleges
and corporations are already using nonwhite immigrants to help meet
affirmative-action goals, a trend that will only increase as the immigrant
population grows.

The nation's increasing diversity does nothing to help the descendants of
slavery -- the people for whom affirmative action was created -- but instead
robs them of the special status that offers the only conceivable defense for
race-based preferences.

JOHN BROCK
New York, June 18, 1997

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              337 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 30, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Bill Seeks to Make Sure Immigrants Get Paid

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 953 words


With immigrants pouring into the New York area and vying for the humblest jobs,
many are facing a growing and particularly painful form of exploitation:
unscrupulous employers who fail to pay some or all of their relatively low
wages.

Lin Xiang Yu was supposed to receive about $375 for working six 12-hour days a
week at a blouse factory in Brooklyn but often received just $100 or $200 each
week. Mrs. Yu, who is from China, believed her boss when he said he would soon
make good on all the back pay owed, but now the factory has closed, and, she
says, her boss owes her $4,761.10 -- and a total of $88,500 to 29 workers.

Even though Niki Zevlakis was the bookkeeper at Tavern in the Park in Rockville
Centre, N.Y., the restaurant's owner often paid her just $50 or $100 a week.
When the owner persuaded her and her husband to move into an apartment that he
said belonged to him, he deducted the rent from her pay, but Mrs. Zevlakis, a
Greek immigrant, discovered that someone else owned the apartment, and now state
officials say she is owed $7,733.09 in back pay.

Orlando Zavala was supposed to earn $60 a day during the three months he mowed
lawns for a landscaper in Glen Cove, N.Y., but he said the landscaper fell $650
behind in paying him. Mr. Zavala, who emigrated from El Salvador 10 years ago,
said that the landscaper dismissed him when he asked about the money and that
when he went to his home a few weeks later to demand payment, the landscaper
threatened to "break his face."

"It's crazy," Mr. Zavala said. "I left El Salvador to escape from the war there,
and now I come here and someone's threatening to kill me because I want my
money."

Advocacy groups that work with immigrants say the problem is spreading, and they
add that there is scant deterrent to discourage employers from preying on
immigrants, especially those here illegally.

These advocacy groups say there are not enough state or Federal labor inspectors
to pursue all the unpaid-wages cases. And they say the law hardly punishes
employers -- the penalty is they must pay the employee back wages as well as a
fine to the state equal to 25 percent of the back wages.

Immigrants are often afraid to confront employers or to seek help for fear of
being turned over to immigration authorities.

Catherine T. Nolan, a Queens Democrat who heads the State Assembly's Labor
Committee, said: "We've been seeing that in this low-wage category, in apparel,
in restaurants, in gardening, people are really getting stiffed, legal and
illegal immigrants alike. There's a sense that their English isn't so good, that
they are scared to stand up for their rights, that these are people who can be
taken advantage of."

Working closely with Assemblywoman Nolan, Jennifer Gordon, executive director of
the Workplace Project, a Hempstead-based immigrant advocacy group on Long
Island, drafted a bill that would increase penalties by establishing a fine
equal to twice the amount of back wages owed. Creating an additional deterrent,
the bill states that employers could face felony charges the second time that
they are accused of not paying wages. The bill would cover deliberate failure to
pay several weeks' wages as well as failure to pay the minimum wage or overtime.

Among the bill's supporters are Catholic Charities, the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile
Employees and the Long Island Association, a major business and civic
organization. And even though immigrant advocates say restaurants are among the
employers who most often fail to pay wages properly, the Long Island chapter of
the New York State Restaurant Association is supporting the bill.

"It's hard not to support something that will bring more integrity to an
industry," said Christine Ryan, executive director of the chapter. "Our members
recognize that people who are cutting corners are creating unfair competition."

Employers who do not fully pay their workers often say they just do not have the
money. Restaurateurs often cite a lack of business. Apparel factory owners
usually say the companies that place orders are paying the factories too little.

The most outspoken opponent of the bill is the New York Farm Bureau, whose
27,000 members often hire low-wage migrant workers.

"I really question whether this is the proper way to address this problem," said
Paul Zimmerman, the bureau's director of government relations. "No matter what
the penalties are, you'll have unscrupulous individuals out there who may want
to take advantage of workers. I would rather see stepped up enforcement actions
by the Department of Labor.

"If this becomes law," he said, "it will have a very punitive impact and send a
negative tone through the employer community about what the state of New York
thinks about employers."

Despite the Farm Bureau's opposition, State Senator Carl L. Marcellino, a
Syosset Republican who is sponsoring the Senate version of the bill, voiced
confidence that it would be enacted, maybe even this week. "This bill is doing a
favor for legitimate businesses," he said. "Anyone who can illegally underpay
his people undercuts legitimate businesses paying legitimate wages."

One of the bill's provisions makes the employer responsible for showing that the
worker was paid. The bill would also bar a common practice at the State Labor
Department: agreeing to settlements in which employers pay 50 percent of back
wages. The bill would require them to pay 100 percent.

Assemblywoman Nolan said, "The bill gives the government a better arsenal of
weapons to pursue justice for people who get hurt this way, although I wish the
bill were providing more money for inspectors."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the immigrants on Long Island battling for pay from
employers are Julian Cavales, left, Orlando Zavala, center, and Jose A. Fuentes.
(Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              338 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 31, 1997, Monday, Late Edition - Final

For an Ex-I.R.A. Bomber, Celebrity

BYLINE: By MONTE WILLIAMS

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words

DATELINE: PEARL RIVER, N.Y., March 28


These days, Brian Desmond Pearson's life resembles that of a Broadway star on
opening night. Deliverymen bearing bouquets, balloons, gift-wrapped liquor and
cards with congratulatory messages keep knocking at the door. Well-wishers keep
dropping by. Reporters keep calling.

But Mr. Pearson is no actor. He is a former Irish Republican Army bomber. On
Thursday, a Federal immigration judge in Manhattan rejected the Government's
effort to deport him, allowing him to remain in the country because he married a
United States citizen in 1990 and has a daughter who is a citizen. The judge,
Phillip T. Williams, also granted him asylum because of fears of retaliation
from Loyalist paramilitary groups who, unlike the I.R.A., favor Northern
Ireland's continued union with Britain.

The judge ruled that Mr. Pearson's 1975 attack on barracks used by the Royal
Ulster Constabulary, the police force, was not a terrorist act but a "political
offense."

Mr. Pearson, 45, who was already a cause celebre in the Irish community,
especially here in Rockland County, became a celebrity in the larger society and
a symbol, for some, of efforts to legitimize the I.R.A., which has killed over
half of the 3,200 people slain in the conflict in Northern Ireland since 1969.

But Mr. Pearson's life here is far removed from the violence back home. "It took
me a number of years," he said, "to put myself at ease in a restaurant or a bar,
where I didn't sit watching the door, waiting for the place to be riddled with
bullets. There's a realization of some kind of normality."

Now a carpenter, Mr. Pearson lives in a modest gray colonial home with his wife,
Doris, his 5-year-old daughter, Siobhan, and a mutt named Madra, which is Gaelic
for dog. Outside his house, though, are decorations left by neighbors -- victory
balloons, a welcome-home sign, American and Irish flags.

"I'm overwhelmed by the support," Mr. Pearson said in a brogue as strong as it
was on Oct. 3, 1988, the day he left Northern Ireland bound for Pearl River to
visit a brother. "It really humbles you."

He seems somewhat embarrassed by all the attention, and he appears to want the
hubbub to die down so he can take care of things that were neglected during his
struggle to stay in this country. The basement, where he likes to carve small
ornamental mahogany harps (symbols of Ireland), is, he said, "a pigsty." The
yard needs work, too. And he would like to redo the kitchen, restore a fireplace
and refurbish the bathroom.

Described by friends as an earnest, quiet, hard-working family man, Mr. Pearson
does not consider himself a terrorist. Nor does he think of himself as very
American.  The judge's ruling brought the Pearsons a measure of relief, but they
are not totally at ease yet. The Immigration and Naturalization Service may
appeal the judge's ruling within 30 days. And Mr. Pearson cannot travel outside
the country, pending the appeal.

The Pearsons' two-year fight against deportation has taken its toll. Mrs.
Pearson's 23-year-old son from a previous marriage was stabbed to death at
Hunter Mountain three years ago, and she "never had time to mourn properly," Mr.
Pearson said.

Friends say Mr. Pearson's strength of character showed in that ordeal. "When
Doris's son got killed, Brian was really there for her, at her beck and call,"
said John Cawley, a close friend of Mr. Pearson and co-chairman of the Brian
Pearson Support Committee. "He gave Doris the strength to go on."

Raised in a house without running water in County Tyrone, Mr. Pearson said
politics were never discussed in his house. His youthful political beliefs --
beliefs he holds today -- were shaped by the discrimination and violence he
witnessed against Roman Catholics, he said. Though he said he would not get
involved in I.R.A. activities if he were returned home -- mostly because it
would be impractical and his nerves are not what they were -- he sounds
unrepentant. "Violence when there is an alternative is immoral," he said. "But
when there is no alternative, it is survival."

He said his father, who drove a tank in the British Army during World War II,
could not get a job as a school bus driver. "That hurt him, and it hurt me,
too," he said. But Mr. Pearson said he did not begin his I.R.A. activity -- he
says he was never sworn into the group -- until a neighbor who was eight months'
pregnant was killed by a bomb planted in her home.

"Until then, there were people who weren't so close to me getting killed, so I
couldn't identify with them," he said. "You look and you either accept the
status quo or you do something to help, and the I.R.A. was the only group
helping."

Today, the situation isn't much better, he said. "Young people in Northern
Ireland are faced with the same decision I made. You can do nothing, in which
case I think you should hang your head in shame or you can do something and lose
your life or spend a long time in jail."

Mr. Pearson came to Rockland about a month after being released from Long Kesh
prison in Northern Ireland, having served 12 years for the barracks attack. Upon
his release, he immediately felt his life was in danger, he says.

Mr. Pearson said he drove the getaway car during the barracks attack. No one was
killed because the I.R.A. gave the police a 55-minute warning.

He said he is no longer "an activist." But he speaks in support of six former
I.R.A. members still facing deportation. He was in prison with four of them,
including Noel Gaynor of Bloomfield, N.J.

Mr. Pearson and the six belong to Irish American Families Against Deportation,
which lobbies Congress. Representatives Benjamin A. Gilman and Peter T. King,
both of New York, testified on behalf of Mr. Pearson. And Mr. Pearson said he
hoped materials used in his case can benefit the others.

"This is a tremendous intrusion on real life," he said. "All the while I was
thinking what about my wife's rights as an American citizen. What happens to the
rest of the family? Are they involuntarily exiled?"


NAME: Brian Desmond Pearson

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Brian Desmond Pearson, a former Irish Republican Army bomber,
relaxing at home in Pearl River, N.Y., with his daughter Siobhan, 5. (Joyce
Dopkeen/The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              339 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 20, 1997, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Eamonn Doran, 58, Owner of Irish Pubs

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 788 words


Eamonn Doran, an Irish barman who turned a long-running run-in with American
immigration authorities into a rollicking career as one of New York City's most
popular and successful pub owners, died on Sunday in a hospital in Dublin. He
was 58 and lived in Manhattan.

His friends said the cause was kidney failure.

In a city where the term "Irish bar" is almost a tautology, Eamonn Doran on
Second Avenue near 53d Street has long been known as the most Irish of them all,
a place where the brogues are as fresh as the latest Aer Lingus landing.

That was because the perpetually smiling proprietor was an unusually generous
and gregarious man, quick with a loan and quick to greet strangers as old
friends, especially if they had just arrived from Ireland.

"He never forgot where he came from," is the way his friend, Terry Moran, put
it, noting that Mr. Doran had been born in Athboy in County Meath, where his
mother's family had operated a pub for generations.

After graduating from Rockland College in Ireland, Mr. Doran (dore-AN in the
United States; DUR-un in Ireland) sold cars in Dublin until he went to New York
in 1971, overstaying his six-month tourist visa but hardly his welcome.

As an illegal immigrant in a city whose employers tended to overlook such
details, particularly for hard-working sons and daughters of Ireland with a
willingness to work off the books, he quickly got a job as a bartender at P. J.
Moran's and began charming a coterie of regulars who followed him when he opened
his own bar a few years later.

As his friends were telling it, cashing a check for a friend proved to be his
undoing as a bartender. When the check bounced and Mr. Doran pressed him for the
money, the friend was so irritated he called the Bob Grant radio program and
denounced Mr. Doran as an undocumented alien illegally holding a job and running
guns for the Irish Republican Army.

Arrested at his job and taken away in handcuffs, Mr. Doran quickly put the lie
to the fanciful gun-running accusation, but had no legal claim to remain in the
United States. Taking full advantage of due process, he remained free while the
case wound its tortuous and somewhat mysterious way through the administrative
procedures of the Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Advised that he would be in a better position to avoid deportation if he owned a
business, Mr. Doran, who had no trouble finding backers, simply opened a bar of
his own.

The legal fight over two decades caused considerable personal distress. Because
he would not have been allowed to re-enter the United States if he had left
while the case was pending, and because his wife, Clare, who had taken their two
young sons back to Ireland, was similarly barred from returning, Mr. Doran was
separated from his family for many years.

Immigration officials are prohibited from discussing cases, but it was hardly
surprising that Mr. Doran finally won. Over the years he befriended many
prominent people in New York and Ireland and raised much money for local
charities, particularly through the charity golf tournaments he organized for
the New York Foundling Hospital.

As one supporter, Dominic Kiernan, the Lord Mayor of Wexford, recalled at the
bar on Tuesday, when Mr. Doran made his first trip to Ireland after getting his
green card in 1991 he was greeted as a hero at a party in Dublin attended by 600
of his closest friends.

Mr. Doran, who eventually opened two more bars in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn
Heights, also added an Eamonn Doran in Dublin.

The emerald of his eye, however, remained the Second Avenue establishment.
Although it attracts patrons of varied nationalities, including, for some
reason, a cadre of Australian revelers, it has always been a special haven for
newcomers from Ireland. Mindful of their interests, Mr. Doran installed a
satellite hookup for broadcasts of Irish football and hurling matches, which
explains why the bar is sometimes crowded at 8:30 A.M.

Richard Harris and other visiting entertainers became virtual fixtures, and Mr.
Doran was so popular with Irish musicians that regulars, who recall the night
they first met the members of an unknown rock group called U2, never knew when
the Chieftains would stop by and break into song.

On Monday, the Chieftains dedicated their annual St. Patrick's Day concert at
Carnegie Hall to Mr. Doran, and on Tuesday, faithful to an old tradition, his
friends gathered at the bar to toast him on what would have been his 59th
birthday.

In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Dermot and Edward, both of
Manhattan and Dublin; three brothers, Father Dermot of Toronto, Billy of Dublin
and Paddy of Limerick, and a sister, Mary of England.

NAME: Eamonn Doran

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1997

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Eamonn Doran


TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1997 The New York Times Company


                              340 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Report Details Ruse by Immigration Aides

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

SECTION: Section 1;    Page 1;    Column 3;    National Desk

LENGTH: 1265 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28


Forty-eight hours before a group of influential House members visited the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's Miami operations last June, the top
field managers of the agency's local district were panicking.

The main detention center in Miami, designed to hold 226 immigrants, was
bursting with 407, threatening serious health and security hazards. More than 50
women had to sleep on cots in the lobby of the center's medical clinic. Criminal
detainees mixed with other immigrants, including children as young as 10 years
old.

It was these conditions that touched off an elaborate deception and cover-up,
detailed in a Government report, a copy of which was obtained by The New York
Times today. The report was prepared by the inspector general of the Justice
Department, the immigration service's parent.

It was essential, the Miami immigration officials thought, to impress the
seven-member delegation from Washington. So, with the blessing of two regional
superiors, Valerie Blake, the Miami deputy district director, ordered an
additional dozen inspectors on overtime pay and sent them to the airport to keep
the immigration inspection lines flowing quickly. She told inspectors not to
"whine" about staffing shortages and to lie if asked whether the airport's
holding cells were occupied by aliens other than criminals.

Ms. Blake also directed that 58 detainees, several criminals among them, be
released without screening.  And, at a cost of $13,867, she ordered that 45
other immigrants be sent on buses, with packed lunches, to a county jail in
northwestern Florida or to an I.N.S. center in New Orleans and that they be kept
there until the legislators left.

By about 1 P.M. on the day before the visit, Kathy Weiss, the detention center's
administrator, had sent Ms. Blake an urgent electronic mail message, confirming
execution of the deputy director's plan for the immigrants "to be stashed out of
sight for cosmetic purposes."

Forty minutes later, Ms. Blake flashed an electronic response to her lieutenant:
"Great work so far."

The outline of the elaborate scheme that Ms. Blake mapped out to deceive the
lawmakers into thinking the Miami operation was a well-oiled machine was
disclosed last week, in a summary of the inspector general's report, by
Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican who headed the House
delegation, which had been appointed by Speaker Newt Gingrich to examine
immigration practices.

But a copy of the complete report, obtained by The Times from an official
critical of I.N.S. operations, lays out in fine detail the last-minute ruses to
which top immigration officials in Miami and at the agency's Eastern regional
office, in Burlington, Vt., resorted, as well as their subsequent efforts to
cover up their acts.

The report also describes how the officials were tripped up in large part by a
trail of incriminating E-mail messages, some of which they had purged from their
computers and which the inspector general, Michael R. Bromwich, reconstructed
with the help of the Lotus Development Corporation, the software company.
Investigators for the inspector general's office reviewed about 4,000 E-mail
messages from backup tapes.

By the time the House members arrived on June 10, 1995, the Miami operation was
so transformed that Mr. Gallegly marveled at how well one of the most
challenging immigration portals in the country was coping with its problems.

But the elaborately orchestrated lie, the new report says, began to unravel when
nearly 50 I.N.S. employees in Miami wrote to the lawmakers after their overnight
visit to tell them they had been duped. When confronted with accusations of the
deception, the field managers tried to cover it up, the report says.

For example, the report says Carol Chasse, the agency's Eastern regional
director, approved Ms. Blake's plan and then impeded the Justice Department's
inquiry by failing to give investigators important E-mail messages. In her six
and a half hours of testimony to investigators, the report says, Ms. Chasse
responded to questions by saying at least 245 times that she did not know the
answer or could not recall.

Ms. Chasse last week denied any wrongdoing.

In response to the episode, the immigration service has transferred Ms. Chasse,
Ms. Blake and two other top field managers to nonsupervisory jobs, pending a
Justice Department review of possible disciplinary action and criminal
prosecution. The two other managers are Ms. Chasse's deputy, Michael Devine, and
the head of the Miami district, Walter D. Cadman.

In addition, the House Judiciary Committee is expected to hold hearings in late
July to determine whether operational problems and similar deception exist at
other large immigration centers, like the one at San Diego.

The report by Mr. Bromwich recommends disciplinary action, ranging from
reprimands to dismissal, for the four transferred officials and nine others. But
Mr. Bromwich reserved his most searing criticism for Ms. Blake, who was promoted
late last year, from her post in Miami to head of the agency's office in St.
Paul. Mr. Bromwich urged her dismissal.

"The single person most responsible for orchestrating the effort to present a
false picture to the task force was Valerie Blake," said the report, which
followed a yearlong inquiry involving 340 interviews and 200 sworn statements.
"But for Blake's actions, the events described herein would likely not have
occurred."

"In the process," the report continued, "she caused her subordinates to take
deceitful actions about which they seemed to feel they had no choice, breeding
cynicism and dishonesty within I.N.S."

An immigration service spokesman, Paul Risley, said that Ms. Blake was reluctant
to comment on the findings until she had seen a copy of the report. Mr. Cadman
and Mr. Levine could not be reached for comment, Mr. Risley said.

The lawmakers' imminent visit was already causing consternation at the highest
levels of the immigration service weeks beforehand. After a meeting with Doris
Meissner, the agency's Commissioner, on May 19, 1995, Mr. Cadman, the Miami
district director, said in an E-mail message to his top aides and Ms. Chasse
that "the Commissioner is very concerned that it would take very little to put
the kiss of death" on the delegation's views toward the immigration service.

On June 2, 1995, Ms. Meissner held a teleconference call with Ms. Chasse, Mr.
Cadman and others to discuss the coming visit. Ms. Meissner, according to the
report, said she wanted to see the agency "putting its best foot forward" but
told everyone not to distort normal operations.

But investigators said the message from Ms. Chasse on down was clear: no warts
on display.

And so the charade was on -- at least until the employees' letter to the
Congressmen prompted Attorney General Janet Reno last year to order an
investigation into what had happened.

In two memos to superiors, dated July 13 and July 17, 1995, senior immigration
officials in Miami and in Vermont denied the accusations that the employees had
raised in that letter.

"I can assure you, unambiguously, that the Congressional delegation was not
shown a 'Potemkin Village' when they visited any of the sites in this district,"
Mr. Cadman, the Miami district director, wrote in the July 13 memo.

The report found that Mr. Cadman's statement was false and, as he later
conceded, that he knew it to be so. Although he did not initiate the deceit, the
report said, he did "sit by and allow the deception to occur," and was "a
willing participant."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              341 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 1, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

BOXING;
Two Cuban Olympic Boxers Flee To the U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

SECTION: Section C;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Sports Desk

LENGTH: 870 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 30


Just weeks before the Atlanta Olympics are set to open, two highly rated members
of the Cuban Olympic boxing team fled the team's training camp in Mexico and
sought asylum today at a border crossing near San Diego, a lawyer who said he
represents the men said.

The details of the apparent defection could not be confirmed with United States
authorities, and some of the details themselves were sketchy. The two boxers --
Joel Casamayor, 24, a bantamweight who won a gold medal four years ago in
Barcelona, Spain, and Ramon Garbey, a two-time amateur world champion in the
light-heavyweight division -- were being held by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, the lawyer said. Immigration officials at the border
refused to comment.

But Luis Murillo Evia, a sports reporter in Guadalajara, where the Cuban boxing
team is training, said he interviewed Miguel Barrientos, the head of the Cuban
sports delegation, on Saturday night and that the Cuban official had confirmed
the two boxers were missing from the camp.

An article on the missing boxers appeared in the Guadalajara newspaper, Siglo
XXI, this morning.

There is no telephone at the Cuban training camp and Barrientos could not be
reached today for comment.

Reached by phone tonight, an official at the Cuban Interests Section in
Washington, Cuba's de facto embassy in the United States, said no one was
available to comment on the situation.
 If true, the defections could prove a major embarrassment to the Cubans just
weeks before the Olympics open and they could hurt the Cuban team's chances. The
Cubans won seven gold medals in boxing at the 1992 Olympics. Barrientos was
quoted in the Mexican newspaper as saying the team had already located two
replacement boxers and that they would be participating in Atlanta.

The defections would be the latest instance in which Cuban athletes have chosen
to leave their homeland. In the 1990's, more than 70 Cuban athletes with
international experience have defected, mainly to the United States and Puerto
Rico. At the 1995 Pan American Games in Argentina, Cuban officials and athletes
spoke openly of the severity of the problems caused in sports by the island
nation's worsening economic crisis and its political isolation. At the time, the
Cuban officials indicated they would not stand in the way of those who wanted to
leave.

In the case of the two boxers, the lawyer, Frank E. Ronzio, an immigration
specialist from Los Angeles, said in a telephone interview from the San Ysidro
border crossing that they had fled the training camp because of unrelenting
political persecution.

Asked why the two men could not just wait a few more weeks, compete, and then
defect in Atlanta, he said, "It was unbearable. They had been singled out for
persecution and they felt they had to do it now."

But Casamayor has had problems unrelated to politics, including a suspension for
taking a banned diuretic, according to Kurt Stenerson, a spokesman for the
United States Boxing Federation.

Ronzio manages several boxers, and he was asked if the two Cubans intended to
turn pro and box in the United States. Ronzio said the subject had not been
discussed and he did not know the future plans of the two boxers.

Ronzio said that the two men fled the camp separately. The Mexican news article
said Garbey left last Sunday on the pretext of going to purchase some
cigarettes, and Casamayor left on Friday.

The two then had to hide, and were shuffled among different hotels because they
were being pursued by Mexican authorities at the request of the Cubans, Ronzio
said.

He said he was contacted several days ago by people in Mexico who were helping
the Cuban boxers and who knew of his immigration work. The two flew today from
Guadalajara to Tijuana, which is adjacent to the border with San Diego. They
were then driven across the border at San Ysidro and immediately requested
asylum.

J. C. Walker, the supervisor today for the immigration service at San Ysidro,
one of the busiest border crossings in the world, said he could not comment on
the case. He referred a reporter to a public information office, but people
there said no one was available to comment.

Curtis Shute, an officer at the border crossing, said in a telephone interview
that he was not familiar with the case, which would have taken place on an
earlier shift, but that generally several Cubans a week seek asylum at San
Ysidro.

By defecting, the two boxers would have lost their chance of competing in the
Olympics, and it was not certain how long they might be held by the American
immigration authorities. Ronzio said it could be days or weeks, depending on the
swiftness with which their case is handled. He claimed that they have a very
strong case, however.

"In my opinion there is clear, credible evidence of their political
persecution," Ronzio said. "They have an excellent case."

He said that the two men were under great pressure to join the Communist Party
and to declare their fealty to the Cuban revolution and its leader, Fidel
Castro. When they refused, he added, they were abused both physically and
psychologically, which is why they were willing to throw away their chances for
an Olympic medal.

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joel Casamayor, who won gold for Cuba in Barcelona, fled his
training camp. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              342 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Economic Scene;
Some second thoughts arise on the benefits of immigration.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

SECTION: Section D;  Page 2;  Column 1;  Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 812 words


WHILE the political system has long focused on whether heavy immigration is a
burden and a threat, many economists have contended for years that foreign
immigrants usually provide an overall benefit to the economy. But a new study
from the Rand Corporation's Center for Research on Immigration Policy, "The
Mixed Economic Progress of Immigrants," suggests that the economics profession
is having some second thoughts.

The conclusions of the economists Robert Schoeni, Kevin McCarthy and George
Vernez are cloaked in the cautious language of academia. Still, they confirm the
fears of mainstream policy types. "The facts are clear," agrees Richard Freeman
of Harvard: the economic success of immigrants varies sharply, with Mexicans and
Central Americans lagging ever further behind the counterparts from Asia and
Europe, as well as native-born Americans. Far less clear is what to do about it.

America, goes the old saw, is a nation of immigrants. It's no surprise, then,
that many Americans are reluctant to close the doors to the teeming masses who
could have been them. And in 1978 Barry Chiswick, an economist who now teaches
at the University of Illinois at Chicago, gave them an economic rationale.

Mr. Chiswick found that new immigrants earned about 10 percent less than
similarly educated native-born Americans. But after 13 years the gap had closed.
And after 23 years in America, immigrants were actually earning 6 percent more
than their counterparts -- testament to the view that immigrants, who tend to be
more energetic than those who stay behind, enrich America economically as well
as spiritually.

But these results were soon challenged by George Borjas, a Cuban-born economist
now at the University of California at San Diego. He argued that Mr. Chiswick
had misinterpreted the Census data, and has since amassed evidence that the
economic quality of immigrants fell sharply in the 1960's with the tide of
largely poor and uneducated arrivals from Latin America.

Mr. Borjas's view has now been firmly established by the Rand researchers.
Average earnings of immigrant men fell from 99 percent of native-born workers in
1970 to 89 percent in 1990. More striking, the relative earnings of Chinese,
Japanese and Korean immigrants have risen -- from 88 to 110 percent -- while
that of Mexicans has fallen sharply, from 66 to 56 percent. Europeans and
Canadians held their own with wages 10 to 20 percent higher than natives.

Education and age explain a lot here. Like those of younger and less skilled
native-born Americans, the fortunes of immigrants from Mexico have been driven
by the widening gap between blue and white-collar wages. But among the
unskilled, immigrants are faring much worse: the earnings of foreign-born in the
bottom 10th of the American work force have fallen to 63 percent from 94 percent
of their counterparts'.

What's more, the wage gap between Latin American immigrants and native-born
workers actually widens as both groups gain experience in the American job
market. The dream of economic assimilation, a reality for most Asians, is
plainly eluding a lot of Mexicans, who make up 21 percent of the immigrants
counted in the 1990 Census.

Does all this mean that immigrants from Latin America are hurting the American
economy? Not necessarily. They are making it cheaper to buy a wide range of
goods and services -- everything from blue jeans to child care. But what's good
for the middle class is not good for everyone: competition from low-skilled
immigrants has exacerbated the problems of low-skilled native workers, who are
already being short-changed in the labor market. Lawrence Katz, an economist at
Harvard, estimates that immigration has lowered the wages of native-born high
school dropouts by roughly a third.

The other objection to immigration -- tellingly, the one that has gotten all the
political mileage in tax-obsessed California -- is that immigrants are a burden
on social services. Mr. Katz argues that the evidence here is very limited, but
concedes there is every reason to believe that poor legal immigrants, like other
poor Americans, are more likely to make use of the safety net.

The most frustrating aspect of the debate is that it is hardly a debate at all.
The pro- and anti-immigration camps largely talk past each other, refusing to
acknowledge that multifaceted problems demand nuanced solutions. Indeed, the one
popular attack on current policy that treats the economic arguments with
respect, Peter Brimelow's "Alien Nation (Harper Perennial), was denounced in The
Wall Street Journal as "the natterings of a neo-nativist."

Mr. Katz, who wants a more selective immigration policy favoring highly skilled
applicants, thinks the lack of informed debate and subsequent stalemate is
ominous. "I worry that doing nothing will lead to harsh restrictions later on,"
he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 1996, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

The Economic Scene column on Thursday, about a debate on the economic benefits
of immigration, misstated an estimate by Lawrence Katz of Harvard University on
the impact of competition from immigrants on the wages of high school dropouts.
He has estimated that competition accounts for a decline in their wages of
roughly 3 percent, not one-third. Such a drop represents one-third of the
relative decline of their wages in the last few decades.


GRAPHIC: Drawing.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              343 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 4, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

BOXING;
Cuban Boxers Are Released

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 12;  Column 5;  Sports Desk

LENGTH: 289 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, July 3


Two highly rated members of the Cuban Olympic boxing team who are seeking asylum
walked out of a detention facility today after being granted parole.

The two boxers, Ramon Garbey and Joel Casamayor, were released into the care of
their attorneys at the El Centro Immigration Processing Center, where they spent
the last three days.

"We needed our freedom," said Garbey, a two-time amateur world champion in the
light-heavyweight division. "I felt very pressured there."

The decision by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in San Diego means
the boxers will not be detained at the processing center while their
applications for asylum are reviewed.

Wearing warm-up pants and T-shirts emblazoned with stars and stripes, Garbey and
Casamayor spoke briefly to reporters, and their attorneys said they would take
them to Los Angeles.

Garbey, 24, and Casamayor, 25, fled training camp in Guadalajara, Mexico. They
feared persecution for refusing to join the Communist Party and refusing to
declare their fealty to the Cuban revolution and its leader, Fidel Castro.

They were considered strong contenders for gold medals in the Atlanta Olympics,
which start in about two weeks. Cuba won seven gold medals in the 1992 Olympics,
including one by Casamayor, who is a bantamweight.

"They very easily could have won the gold and then defected, but they chose not
to fight Castro's war," said Al Rogers, a spokesman for their attorneys.

Casamayor, a native of Guantanamo, left behind his 8-year-old daughter and her
mother. Garbey, who is unmarried, left a son on the Caribbean island.

More than 40 athletes and officials from Cuba's delegation defected during the
1993 Central American and Caribbean Games in Puerto Rico.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              344 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 6, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Building Lives on Brooklyn's Scaffolds

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 21;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1390 words


There are no brownstones in Bangladesh.

But in the brownstone corridors of Brooklyn, the men who wipe grime off the
aging stone buildings, restore their cracking stoops and spruce up their
cornices are increasingly immigrants from Bangladesh.

"Sometimes, people ask, 'Where did you learn to do this?' " said Mostafizur
Rahman, a construction worker who splits his time between Bangladesh and Borough
Park. "Some of us say, 'Oh, we did this at home.' That's not really true. There
is nothing like this at home."

Over the last two decades, Bangladeshi immigrants have gained a foothold in the
city's construction industry, particularly in home renovations and brownstone
work.  They did not bring with them a particular penchant for this trade. But
after a handful of Bangladeshis entered the field, others followed, many of them
undocumented or hobbled in English, relying on compatriot connections to find
work.

So in a field that requires little capital or credit, small Bangladeshi
contractors proliferated, buoyed by a steady stream of low-wage workers from
back home and an exclusive ethnic network through which skills and resources are
passed on. A new wave of immigrants -- Bangladeshis and other South Asians, as
well as Caribbean and Hispanic workers -- began to replace the Italian and other
European immigrants who once dominated the field. Contractors do acknowledge,
however, that the high end of the restoration business still belongs to white
companies.

According to the Planning Department, New York City is home to 20,000
Bangladeshis, though Bangladeshis say that is a vast underestimate. About 1,900
Bangladeshis land in the city every year, according to Frank Vardy, a department
demographer.

No one knows exactly how many Bangladeshis are in the construction business,
though most Bangladeshi newcomers probably earn a living in low-paying service
jobs traditionally held by new immigrants: selling apples on the street,
flipping burgers, driving cabs. But the Bangladeshi presence in the construction
trade provides one more clue how immigrants create niches for themselves in the
city's economy.

Roger Waldinger, a professor of urban planning at the University of California
at Los Angeles who studies immigrants in New York, said that all ethnic niches
-- whether Greek diners or Korean greengroceries -- emerge in response to
barriers that newcomers face in the mainstream economy.

Luck can be crucial, Dr. Waldinger said -- "just being there at a time when
there is opportunity and when, for whatever reasons, there isn't a lot of
competition." Dr. Waldinger wrote the forthcoming book "Still the Promised City?
New Immigrants and African-Americans in Post-Industrial New York" (Harvard
University Press).

Immigrants' ethnic contacts are also important, he added. "The great advantage
for Bangladeshi entrepreneurs is that all of a sudden, there are all these
workers available who have relatively few opportunities."

Noorl Hoq, 77, who now spends his days on his favorite recliner in the kitchen
of the Windsor Terrace home he shares with his children and grandchildren, is
said to have been one of the first Bangladeshis who broke into construction.

Mr. Hoq, a native of a swampy Bangladeshi region known as Sandwip, had been a
sailor on a British ship. In 1962, he went ashore in New York Harbor and decided
to stay. Back then, a South Asian face was rare. "New York was black and white,"
he said.

For two years, Mr. Hoq worked for a West Indian contractor. He then branched out
on his own. Ten years later, Shafiqul Alam arrived from Sandwip with Mr. Hoq's
telephone number in hand. Mr. Alam, trained as a pharmacist, entered the
construction business through Mr. Hoq. "We all learned to hold a paintbrush and
trowel from him," said Mr. Alam, who now runs a general contracting company.

Dozens of construction workers today can trace their roots to Mr. Hoq. But there
is also Abdul Malek of Bedford-Stuyvesant, who apprenticed with an
African-American contractor 20 years ago before venturing out on his own.

Last week, Mr. Malek's brother, Abdul Wahab, put the finishing touches on a
brick apartment house on Pierrepont Street in Brooklyn Heights. For three
months, he dangled from the scaffolds, creating faux-brownstone lintels to frame
the windows, applying a fresh coat of rust red to the four-story apartment house
and coating its first floor with layers of fresh cement. He and his helpers also
laid oak beams in an aging brownstone mansion down the block and put new
flooring in the basement of a third house.

For men who grew up in stucco houses surrounded by coconut palms, the
construction business is a new world. But Mr. Wahab said his compatriots from
the Indian subcontinent were swift learners. "We built the Taj Mahal, didn't
we?" he said.  "So we can build another one here."

Like many Bangladeshi contractors, Mr. Wahab prefers to hire Bangladeshis. "It's
easier to communicate," he said. "You can trust them." Another contractor, Abdul
Baten, claimed that Bangladeshis work harder. "One man," he said, "can work for
two men."

A boast, perhaps, but the stereotype of diligence and reliability underscores a
truism about immigrant niches: few jobs go to outsiders.

Dr. Waldinger added that a Bangladeshi immigrant may be willing to work long
hours for low wages because he is likely to enjoy long-term payoffs that a
non-Bangladeshi would not. He is vested with more trust and responsibility; with
a slew of contacts among Bangladeshi contractors, he can peddle skills
elsewhere. As Dr. Waldinger put it, "The nature of ethnic ties between the
employer and employee and the connections that span the industry provide a
certain motivation to members of that ethnic group to work harder."

Most workers, Mr. Alam said, have the resources to do only small, residential
jobs, though some veterans have acquired licenses and bonds that allow them to
bid on larger commercial projects. For instance, Mr. Alam, who is a licensed
general contractor, has just finished renovating a school in Flatbush.

Still, he said, Bangladeshis have not been able to break into larger public
projects because they lack political connections. "Our cousins aren't senators."

Moreover, Bangladeshis encounter prejudice from customers, Mr. Alam complained,
adding that some white homeowners choose white contractors even if their rates
are higher. "We get a lot of work from black people and from Hispanics," he
said, during a break in a recent meeting of the Sandwip Association, a civic
group whose community center is in the back of a bodega in the Kensington
section of Brooklyn. Kensington, where most of the workers live, has become a
center of Bangladeshi life in New York. Many of the workers, who are single or
here without their families, go home for the winter and return to the scaffolds
every spring.

Their intervention in the construction trade has not gone unnoticed by
old-timers. "I've definitely seen the Italians go out of business and the
Bangladeshis taking over many of the jobs that we used to do," said Jim
Buscarella, a third-generation owner of Jabus Building Corporation in Brooklyn,
which specializes in building renovations. "They work cheaper, harder, longer."

Mr. Buscarella said many Bangladeshis charged half his rates. But their skill,
he added, often matches their prices. "It's like comparing a Mercedes to a
Chevy," he said.

Perched on his scaffold on Eighth Avenue in Park Slope, Antonio Costas, who was
born into a family of stone specialists in La Coruna, Spain, shook his head at
the mention of Bangladeshi construction workers. Even though they charge less,
he said, they pose no threat to him.

Mr. Costas, whose employees are mostly from Mexico, maintained that the
renovations trade belongs to natives of countries that specialize in stone
architecture, like Spain and Italy. "This is a job for the Europeans," he said.

Mr. Alam dismisses such claims, although he agrees that prices have dropped as
more Bangladeshis have entered the trade. Ten years ago, he recalled, "there
wasn't one block on Fort Greene or Park Slope where I didn't erect a scaffold."
Today, the market is flooded. And while it squeezes his profit margin, he is
sympathetic. "We can't tell them not to come," he said. "We did it. They will do
it, too."

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bangladeshis have created a niche in brownstone renovation work.
Shafiqul Alam, now a general contractor, arrived in New York in the 70's,
trained as a pharmacist. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              345 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 7, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ON THE MAP;
In Fair Lawn, Getting to Know a New Language and a New Land

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY

SECTION: Section 13NJ;  Page 3;  Column 1;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 566 words


They arrived in Fair Lawn strangers in a strange land, Jews from Russia who have
carved out a shtetl among the other 30,500 residents of this Bergen County
suburb. Assisted by volunteers from northern New Jersey's Jewish community, many
of the immigrants have occupied the El Dorado Village apartment complex in the
borough's Radburn section, a planned community established in 1929.

Grace Zimel, a retired schoolteacher from Paterson who runs a conversational
English class for some graying Russians at the Radburn Association's grange,
talked about how her students are torn between living out their days in
comfortable isolation among comrades or struggling to get to know their adopted
land.

Q. Do most new immigrants from Russia speak much English?

A. They speak enough English to get by. Younger ones have to be employed, so
they really go at it. They learn very quickly, actually. The people that I deal
with brought nothing.

Q. Who are the people you deal with?

A. Well, they're all elderly, past 70. As a matter of fact, we're all peers in
that respect, including me. They're all highly educated. I joke with them that I
have my own private clinic here. There's a psychiatrist, a surgeon, a
gynecologist and a man who's an engineer. So they're knowledgeable people. The
way I started with them, when we really had no language in common, was to speak
Yiddish.

Q. What is the first thing they want to learn?

A. I guess they want to learn enough so they can understand television programs.
For example, if you go to a French movie, or any other foreign movie, even if
you know the language a little bit, it's very hard to understand. And they would
like to be able to understand. To my mind unfortunately, there is a Russian
cable network and they do have a lot of the soap operas in translation. And so I
keep saying to them: "That's not helping you. Watch it in English. Just try a
little bit."

Q. What are some difficulties?

A.  Well, one thing is pronunciation. They do not know the sound of "h." So
"hospital" becomes "gospital" and they went to a graduation at "Garvard." The
other thing is, they don't use the word "the." "I go to store," or "I buy
apple."

Q. There's simply no counterpart in Russian?

A. No.

Q. Any culture shocks?

A.  There is one cultural thing that I think is very pleasant for all of them.
They have been deprived of any religious observance for a long, long time and
they started attending synagogue. And it seems to give them a great deal of
pleasure, to know that they're with other Jews. But there, too, they were going
to synagogues that were available and all of a sudden they made their own.

Well, if you're Jewish you know that where there are 10 Jews there are five
synagogues. Now they have their own rabbi and their own shul.

But I think it would be better if they were assimilated, to feel a part of the
community, a real part, and not to put themselves aside.

Q. So is it hard -- pardon the expression -- to teach an old dog new tricks?

A.  Yes, I think so. You know, they're very happy to be here. They're always
waiting for me when I arrive, and they can't wait to get started. They enjoy the
session and we joke around. I know all about their families, they know all about
my family. We talk about our grandchildren, we talk about our children. They're
not resistant; it's just hard for them.   STEVE STRUNSKY

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russian immigrants learn about English and the doors it can open
at classes taught by Grace Zimel, right. (Clifford Hausner for The New York
Times)

TYPE: Interview

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              346 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 8, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Fleeing to Asylum, And Going Nowhere

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 140 words


Immigration experts and advocates for refugees say there are severe flaws in the
United States Immigration and Naturalization Service's program to release asylum
seekers who have credible claims, pose no danger to society and have ties here.

After a disturbance a year ago at a privately run detention center for
immigrants, fueled by detainees' frustrations over their prolonged
incarcerations and conditions at the jail, immigration officials promised to
improve the program.

But immigration service reports and lawyers who have tried to get their clients
released say the program for asylum seekers has been plagued by inadequate
staffing, inconsistent application, a lack of accountability for district
directors who ignore recommendations for parole, and an inability to track the
cases of detainees.

Article, page B1.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              347 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 9, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 75 words


The Economic Scene column on Thursday, about a debate on the economic benefits
of immigration, misstated an estimate by Lawrence Katz of Harvard University on
the impact of competition from immigrants on the wages of high school dropouts.
He has estimated that competition accounts for a decline in their wages of
roughly 3 percent, not one-third. Such a drop represents one-third of the
relative decline of their wages in the last few decades.

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              348 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 12, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Strips Colombian President of His Visa

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 4;  Column 5;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 187 words

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, July 11


Invoking a clause in the Immigration and Naturalization Act that makes anyone
who has "assisted or abetted" drug trafficking ineligible to visit the United
States, the State Department said today that it had canceled the visa of
President Ernesto Samper of Colombia.

"People who knowingly assist narco trafficking are no longer welcome in this
country," said the State Department spokesman, Nicholas Burns, who announced the
decision at a press conference in Washington.

Mr. Burns said the United States had information that drug traffickers had made
donations to Mr. Samper's 1994 presidential campaign. In exchange, he said, Mr.
Samper had embarked on policies to favor drug traffickers.

Investigations by Colombian officials into illegal donations continue despite
the fact that Congress exonerated Mr. Samper last month, a ruling that was
widely criticized.

Mr. Samper's former campaign treasurer, Santiago Medina, who has testified to
receiving $6 million from two Cali drug traffickers, Miguel and Gilberto
Rodriguez Orejuela, was sentenced today to five and a half years in prison on
those charges.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              349 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Service Needs a Major Overhaul

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 18;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 231 words


To the Editor:

The photographs accompanying your July 9 news article about New York State farm
workers were worth thousands of words. No other occupational group in America
today would be expected to live with outhouses.

Although the only real avenue for meaningful improvement in farm workers' living
and working conditions is self-organization, it is naive to suggest, as the
article does, that if workers merely "understood how essential they are to the
industry . . . they might be less timid about asking for better terms."

There is an oversupply of farm labor in the United States, resulting in high
unemployment, underemployment and low wages. Many workers do not speak up
because they fear replacement by a more compliant worker. The agricultural
industry has perpetuated an oversupply of labor through immigration and labor
legislation and by hiring workers who lack authorized status.

Farm labor organizing is made difficult by the lack of resources available to
unions, discriminatory treatment of farm workers in labor legislation and the
limited government resources assigned to enforce the law against the powerful
agribusiness industry. Public support for labor organizing and boycotts against
the products of abusive employers helps farm workers overcome these odds.

BRUCE GOLDSTEIN
Co-director
Farmworker Justice Fund
Washington, July 10, 1996

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              350 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 21, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

MAKING IT WORK;
In This Club, Some Runners Run For Their Lives

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW

SECTION: Section 13;    Page 3;    Column 1;    The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1013 words


THE 12 men took their places on the running track in Red Hook Park, already
breaking a sweat under a scorching afternoon sun. From the front of the pack, a
runner shouted, "Vamos!" From the back, another made the sign of the cross over
his chest and asked the Virgin Mary to bless his tired legs. With that, the
Mexican running club was off for a speed workout of laps and 800-meter sprints.

Racing along in the cluster of immigrants, most of them from the Mexican state
Puebla, was Guillermo Pineda, 23, who was concentrating on getting his
5-kilometer (3.1-mile) time back down to 17 minutes. Both his 5-kilometer and
10-kilometer times were too high, he said, because he had missed a month of
practice while he was held at a Federal immigration detention center in
Louisiana.

In April, he was arrested in a raid on a Manhattan garment factory suspected of
hiring illegal immigrants, like Mr. Pineda.  He was ordered deported, but by
late May he had been released and was back in New York, making bicycle
deliveries for restaurants -- and running.

Zipping past Mr. Pineda on the track was Pedro Medina, 25, who said he had
recently returned from Mexico where he helped his wife and infant son get to
Tijuana and cross the border. Mr. Medina said he had obtained a visa that allows
him to enter the country to run races. After moving from one dishwashing job to
another he recently found a construction job, although he said he did not expect
it to last. "Sometimes when I feel bad or scared or kind of nervous about my
life," Mr. Medina said in Spanish, "I put on my sneakers and I let the problems
go. It cures you mentally."

Five years ago, when six runners from Chinantla, a village in Puebla, formed the
Club Atletico Mexicano de Nueva York, the goals were simple: stay in shape, win
a few races. But as word spread around the city, the club has grown to about 100
members.

These runners, who are mostly in their 20's, 30's and 40's and include a handful
of women, have woven themselves into a familial support network, bonded by the
shared experience of life as an immigrant in the city. For many, it is a life of
temporary labor and long working hours, risky border crossings and the looming
fear of arrest.  "I'm very proud of my runners," said Adam Lazaro, 42, the
club's president, whose 17-year-old son, Adams is a member. "I'm strict. The
runners must have discipline. But we help those who come to us."

Newer immigrants often rely on the veteran club members for help with paying for
running shoes, legal advice and tips on housing and jobs and written requests to
employers for time off to run. Mr. Lazaro, who came to the city 27 years ago and
works as a bell captain at the Princeton Club, said runners often miss practices
or races, sometimes disappearing for a month or more because of their constantly
changing work schedules or run-ins with the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Some return to Mexico to see their families or to run races and never
make it back.

Absent at the workout in Red Hook Park was Antonio Bautista, whom no one had
seen since he lost his dishwashing job a month ago. Mr. Lazaro was worried. "Any
word from Antonio?" he asked the runners, who responded by shaking their heads.

When Mr. Pineda was arrested and sent to Louisiana, Mr. Lazaro said he contacted
a friend of his at the Mexican Consulate in New Orleans and lobbied for Mr.
Pineda's release. Mr. Lazaro wrote to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, which turned the case over to an immigration judge who turned out to be
a serious runner. Mr. Pineda recalled that when he went before the judge, the
first question was, "What's your time in the 5K?" The judge suspended the
deportation order and released Mr. Pineda on $1,500 bail -- part of which was
raised by his fellow runners -- and transferred the case to New York, where it
is pending. Mr. Pineda said he believed his running helped persuade the judge to
let him go.

The club, which placed second among teams competing in last year's New York City
Marathon after the West Side Runners, is ranked fourth among about 50 city
running clubs that accumulate points in various races. The club won second place
last Sunday in a half-marathon in the Bronx and is to compete today for the
annual five-mile Club Team Championship in Central Park.

FOR the Mexican immigrants, the most meaningful run of the year is one from a
church in Bushwick, Brooklyn, to a church in Chelsea in Manhattan that Mr.
Lazaro has held for the past two years to duplicate a tradition of his native
village, Chinantla. Each January, runners form a 300-mile relay from Mexico City
to Chinantla to celebrate the day, more than 100 years ago, when a life-size
statue of Jesus was left in a village church by traveling missionaries who were
suddenly unable to carry it. A few years ago, the church burned down, but the
statue, called Padre Jesus de Chinantla, survived.

The running club practices five times a week, alternating days devoted to speed
training and distance training, with runners encouraged to go on solo runs on
the other two days, all year long.

Other runners seem impressed by the success of the Mexican club. "We have
lawyers who work 60- and 70-hour weeks and run in the clubs, but this seems to
be a different kind of stress," said Andy Kimer ling, co-chairman of the club
council of the New York Road Runners Club. "And some groups have a neighborhood
that keeps them together, but the Mexicans have a pretty powerful common bond."

Two days after the speed workout, as the runners gathered for a distance workout
around the perimeter of Prospect Park, Mr. Lazaro was relieved when Mr. Bautista
appeared at practice. "Antonio!" he said, patting the runner on the back.
"You're back. Did you find work?"

"Yes," Mr. Bautista said, noting that after searching for weeks, he had landed a
three-day-a-week construction job that pays $50 a day. "For now."

Mr. Lazaro leaned on Mr. Bautista's shoulder for balance, folded his right leg
into a stretch and called to the group: "Vamos!"

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Long working hours often precede practice for members of Club
Atletico Mexicano de Nueva York, a local running club. (Rebecca Cooney for The
New York Times)

Table: "RUNNING: Vamos! On the Track With a Mexican Running Club" lists the top
runners and their best times at the Club Atletico Mexicano de Nueva York.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              351 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 29, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Workers to be Deported

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 138 words

DATELINE: NORTH BERGEN


On Friday, dozens of laborers at the Mitzel Corporation garment factory in North
Bergen showed up for their morning shift. Today, 33 of them will be deported and
flown back to Mexico. The 33 workers were among 52 who were detained in a raid
on Friday at what immigration officials described as a sweatshop. The other 19
workers, who did not agree to be deported, are awaiting deportation hearings.

William W. Bittner, the Acting Deputy Director of the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service office in Newark, said yesterday that the factory's
owners could be fined $1,000 per worker if they are found to have knowingly
employed illegal aliens. The Federal Department of Labor and the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration also took part in the raid and are considering
charges, Mr. Bittner said.


LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              352 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 5, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Holding Firm Over Welfare

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1226 words


Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has often distanced himself from the conservative
social policies of his fellow Republicans, but after last week's upheaval of the
country's welfare landscape, he has suddenly found himself to the left of
President Clinton and much of the Democratic Party on issues of welfare and
immigration.

In unsuccessfully urging Mr. Clinton not to sign the welfare bill passed by
Congress last week, he argued that the Federal Government was in effect shifting
millions of dollars in costs to the city and state. But he also evoked a
tradition of social generosity in the city and state that goes back to the great
waves of immigrants in the last century, and that makes it difficult even for a
budget-cutting Republican Mayor to endorse wholeheartedly the welfare retreat
now under way across the country.

"The city of New York is really just a better place than a lot of other places
in terms of caring for people and understanding the worth of human beings," Mr.
Giuliani said last week, explaining why local government would inevitably have
to shoulder the burden that Washington has now dropped.

To be sure, the Mayor is hardly an advocate for the welfare state. He has
removed 155,000 people from the welfare rolls since taking office and has forced
thousands of others to be finger-imaged, or electronically fingerprinted, and to
work for their benefits. He has advocated the wholesale abolition of the joint
state and city Home Relief program, which provides assistance mostly to
childless, able-bodied adults; barring that, he has said, he favors a 90-day
time limit on benefits. Last year, he noted that the combined effects of state
and city welfare cutbacks could prompt many recipients to move out of the state,
though he stopped just short of saying that would be a good thing.

Nonetheless, Mr. Giuliani has made it clear that he will not follow the
President all the way to welfare's new terrain, and his opposition seems to grow
from the nature of governing the nation's largest city, the one with the highest
population of welfare recipients.

On a political level, his opposition to the bill may play well in next year's
election among those Democratic voters who support social programs and have
otherwise been critical of some of his actions. On a financial level, the city
does not have the necessary money to pick up the new burden. And on a historical
level, he can assert that the bill's severity violates the city's tradition of
embracing immigrants and supporting the needy.

"The instinct for generosity and taking care of people began in New York State,
and it is still strongest here," said former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who added that
the state was one of the few in America to enshrine that principle in its
Constitution. "There are more people clustered here, in a smaller space, and the
intensity of the need is so much greater," he said.

That tradition began around the turn of the century, when the Tammany Hall
machine won the loyalty of its immigrant working-class constituency with
generous helpings of public relief. It continued through the Depression, said
Frances Fox Piven, a professor of political science and sociology at the
Graduate School of the City University of New York, through the support of labor
unions and leaders like Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia.

In recent years, the tradition has begun to erode somewhat, although not as fast
as elsewhere. Even before the new Federal bill, Mayor Giuliani, Gov. George E.
Pataki and the Democratic leadership in the State Assembly had come out in favor
of time limits of some sort on public assistance, though political differences
kept any from being approved.

The Mayor and the Governor favor reducing the size of the state's welfare grant,
a proposal that the Democrats killed. And thousands of people in New York City,
Westchester and Suffolk Counties are now working for local governments in
exchange for their benefits.

When the details of the Congressional bill emerged last week, the Governor said
he was pleased with the time limit and workfare provisions, expressing some
disagreement only with the decision to cut off many legal immigrants from food
stamps and some other benefits. He said he may call a special session of the
State Legislature to wrestle with Albany's new welfare responsibilities.

With Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato supporting the bill, the loudest voices against
the bill in the state became those of Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan -- who
said the effect on New York would be "apocalyptic" -- and the Mayor, who used
somewhat less florid language to say the same thing.

But even some of those who have differed sharply with Mr. Giuliani and Mr.
Pataki in their attempts to reduce welfare's benefits believe New York State
will remain more generous than other states when the time comes to assume the
responsibility passed on by the Federal Government.

True, the state's monthly welfare grant of $577 hardly seems generous in light
of the area's high cost of living, and the size of the grant has gone up only
three times since the 1970's, falling far behind inflation. But only four states
have a higher monthly benefit, and at least for the time being, the state is
considered likely to maintain that relative position. The state has not cut its
benefit or dropped its Home Relief program the way other states have, and New
York's constitutional protection for the needy may prevent the impoverishment of
many legal immigrants that is predicted in many other states.

"I think there is a commitment among a substantial part of the people of New
York to maintain some basic level of decency for their neighbors," said Henry
Freedman, executive director of the Center on Social Welfare Policy and Law, a
Manhattan-based organization that assists lawyers for welfare recipients. "The
reason is that they understand the consequences of the social disaster that
would otherwise result."

Those consequences, Mr. Cuomo said, include the prospect of more families living
on the street, more people committing crimes, more people in public hospital
beds, more AIDS cases, more domestic violence -- "more of all of the things that
abject poverty brings," he said.

It remains unclear, however, just how the city and the state will be able to
sustain their generosity in light of fiscal pressures that were enormous even
before passage of the bill, which local officials say will add hundreds of
millions to their annual welfare costs. Earlier this year, for example, Mr.
Pataki, with Mr. Giuliani's approval, proposed reducing the monthly benefit for
a one-parent family with two children to $424 from $577, a 26 percent cut that
would match New Jersey's level. The idea was quickly blocked by the Democrats in
the State Assembly, continuing the party's tradition as a defender of the social
safety net.

But now, even the Assembly Speaker, Sheldon Silver, acknowledges that time
limits on benefits have become a reality, both for the main welfare program for
families and for the state's Home Relief program. With the state about to pay a
much larger share of the costs, welfare advocates fear that the spirit of
generosity may be difficult to afford.

"I don't see how they can sustain it indefinitely," Ms. Piven, the professor,
said. "The financial pressure may now be too intense."

LOAD-DATE: August 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              353 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 8, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
5 Counties on Migration List

BYLINE: By ANDY NEWMAN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Five New Jersey counties are among the 50 in the nation most affected by
immigration, the Washington-based Center for Immigration Studies reported
yesterday. The center, which supports cuts in legal immigration, used census and
immigration statistics to compile an "immigration index" based on the percentage
of residents who are foreign-born, speak English poorly or speak a language
other than English at home. Hudson County, which has many immigrants from Latin
America and the Indian subcontinent, was ranked ninth in the nation. Passaic,
Union, Bergen and Essex were also in the top 50.

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              354 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 9, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

10 Held as Unlicensed Medical Practitioners

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 2;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1002 words


Ten people who investigators said acted as doctors although they did not have
licenses were arrested in Chinatown yesterday in a case that officials say
highlights the way immigrant groups are taken advantage of when seeking medical
care.

In one case, a woman with no medical license performed scores of abortions at a
Chinatown clinic. Others were accused of practicing dentistry, accupuncture or
other medical techniques without the appropriate accreditation. One of the phony
doctors was accused of sexually assaulting a patient.

Officials said they did not know whether any of the patients had been seriously
injured, or whether those arrested -- all but one of whom were immigrants -- had
received medical training elsewhere.

While the arrests were concentrated in Chinatown, officials say the problem
reaches far beyond the borders of that neighborhood and is common in other
immigrant enclaves across the city. Often, such practioners have medical
training in their native countries but have yet to pass more rigorous licensing
exams here.

By practicing in immigrant neighborhoods, the false doctors manage to provide
affordable if questionable health care to largely poor communities while keeping
up their medical training as they try to pass state exams.

No matter what their prior training, they pose a threat to patients, said
Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco, who announced the arrests at a news conference
in lower Manhattan.

"Their level of training and expertise is irrelevant," Mr. Vacco said. "These
people are old-fashioned snake-oil salesmen."

Yesterday's arrests were the result of a two-month inquiry by investigators of
the Fifth Precinct, the State Attorney General's office, and the State Education
Department, which licenses doctors. The investigation was spurred by complaints
from patients and by a series of articles in The Daily News about people in
Chinatown falling prey to medical impostors.

Posing as patients, the detectives and investigators taped conversations with
the fake doctors, some of whom admitted that they were practicing without
licenses.

Those arrested yesterday are Wing Bing Chu, You Go Chen, Dian Cao, Hak Man Die,
Yong Xiang Au, Chin Fai Ling, Huang Fang Fend, Lisa Lu, Yong Dian Li and Eugene
Schwalben. Two others were still being sought.

Officials said that such deception was not limited to the medical profession;
immigrants are often duped by people who pose as lawyers saying they can provide
green cards and other legal help.

The authorities say the problem is particularly acute in immigrant areas because
many newcomers are reluctant to complain to law enforcement officials.
Furthermore, the patients often feel more comfortable being treated by people
who speak their language and understand their culture.

Mr. Vacco said that the arrests were part of a wider effort by the state to
ferret out unlicensed professionals. Last year, the state Board of Education
conducted about 400 investigations of 38 professions, including doctors and
lawyers, and arrested five people for practicing medicine without a license.

"This is not the end of the story," said Charles Adams, executive director of
the State Education Department's office of professional discipline.

But even as they try to find more unlicensed practitioners, officials admit that
getting immigrants to come forward and lodge complaints remains difficult. In
many instances, the immigrants view the impostors as beneficent, since doctors
are often scarce in poorer communities and the phony practitioners typically
charge less than licensed professionals.

Jennifer Farina, a spokeswoman for the district attorney's office, said that the
investigation would be widened to determine whether anyone had been injured
while receiving care from the unlicensed practitioners.

In its series of articles, The Daily News described several cases in which
unlicensed doctors provided shoddy services, misdiagnosed symptoms and
prescribed wrong medicine. In one case, Mr. Schwalben examined a pregnant
patient and did a sonogram but failed to realize that the fetus was lodged in
the Fallopian tube, not in the uterus.

"If any other evidence comes forward, we will certainly look into it," Ms.
Farina said. "Right now we don't have any more information on the suspects."

In Chinatown, some people practicing medicine without licenses were trained in
Western medicine in their homeland, but once they reached the United States, had
difficulty passing the tough medical tests, partly because of language barriers.
So they take ads in Chinese-language newspapers proclaiming themselves to be
herbalists or acupuncturists, and perform medical techniques that require a
state license.

Such bogus doctors are especially popular in Chinatown because many newer
Chinese immigrants forgo Western doctors for their everyday aches and pains,
instead seeking herbal remedies more familiar to them, residents of the
neighborhood say.

"It does not matter if they have a license or not," said Lau Kwok, who lives in
Chinatown. "What matters is if they can cure you. They don't need a license to
be able to cure people. I stay with herbalist."

Thin Lee, a printer, said: "It's good that they are caught. But at the same
time, it's going to be very expensive for people like me to go to a real doctor
because I don't have health insurance."

Some licensed doctors and health practitioners in the area welcomed the arrests,
saying that in recent years the neighborhood has been flooded with fake doctors
performing unauthorized procedures for which they are not trained..

"It is wrong for doctors to practice Western medicine in this country without a
medical license because this way they don't have to answer to anybody," said Yun
D. Quen, a Chinatown herbalist. "Unlike the Chinese herbal medicine, which is
basically a body tonic, which acts slowly, the Western medicine takes its effect
right away and it can be dangerous to the patient if the wrong medicine is
prescribed."


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ten people who worked as doctors in Chinatown were taken away in
a police van yesterday for practicing medicine without a license. (Chang W.
Lee/The New York Times)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              355 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 12, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: NEW YORK;
Pataki Rejects Speaking Role Over Script

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 280 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 11


In another indication of how efforts to control the Republcan convention tightly
has been rejected by some party leaders, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York has
refused an invitation to address the convention after party officials instructed
him to follow a specific script about immigration.

But as New York's 103 delegates gathered at the Hotel Del Coronado on an island
off the coast of this city, word was rapidly circulating among them that Mr.
Pataki might be named as one of the speakers nominating Jack Kemp for the Vice
Presidency on Wednesday. Mr. Pataki said he had not received an invitation to be
a nominating speaker, and when he was asked if he wanted the assigment, he said:
"I think there are so many good people who can do it."

But the Republican National Committee did ask Mr. Pataki if he would address
convention delegates during a session in which the issue of immigration will be
highlighted, the Governor confirmed today. But, according to Mr. Pataki's
spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, after reviewing the script over a week ago and seeing
that it conflicted with his own views, he declined. The script, Ms. Mucha said,
was directly tied to the party platform, which calls for the denial of
citizenship to children born of parents who are illegal immigrants or who have
only temporary visas.

After delivering an enthusiastic speech to a room packed with New York
delegates, Mr. Pataki spoke with reporters and played down his dissenting
position on immigration. When questioned about the platform plank, he was terse
in his response. "I disagree with that position, but I think there is so much
more that unifies us as a party," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              356 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 12, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE ISSUES;
Platform Ban on Abortion Veers to Right of Dole's Stand

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 791 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 11


The platform the delegates to the Republican National Convention will adopt
Monday night is a rigidly conservative document that in some instances goes well
beyond Bob Dole's positions.

Most of the attention so far has been on the fight within the party over
abortion. Last week, the Platform Committee rejected a plank specifically
expressing tolerance for the views of Republicans who favor abortion rights, a
plank Mr. Dole once said was non-negotiable.

The plank the delegates will adopt expresses support for a constitutional
amendment that would outlaw abortion. It would make abortions illegal even when
a pregnant woman's life was in danger or when the pregnancy resulted from rape
or incest, exceptions Mr. Dole favors.

Beyond abortion, the platform recognizes the views of the most conservative
elements of American politics on issues like immigration, criminal punishment,
civil rights for homosexuals, education, welfare and the environment.

Mr. Dole said over the weekend in an interview with the Copley News Service for
The San Diego Union-Tribune that he had not read the platform and did not feel
bound by it.

That is not unusual. Unlike some parliamentary democracies where elected
officials feel bound by their party's platform, politicians in the United States
pay little attention to platforms. The documents are often forgotten from one
convention to the next.

Still, studies have shown that parties in power in this country normally abide
by their platforms, in general if not in every specific.
 And the platforms serve to distinguish the parties from one another. For
instance, in contrast to the Republican platform, the one the Democrats will
adopt in Chigago in two weeks is certain to support abortion rights, public
education, Government regulations to protect the environment, gun control, civil
rights for homosexuals and new Federal spending on social programs.

Under party rules, aspects of the platform can be changed on the convention
floor. A majority of the delegates from each of six state delegations must
request a floor debate.

But that has not happened at a Republican convention since 1964, and there is no
movement within the party this year to try to amend the document. Abortion
rights advocates, a small minority among the delegates, agreed to a compromise
in which all the proceedings of the Platform Committee, including their
amendments on abortion that were rejected, will be published in an appendix to
the platform.

This fits with the desire of the convention organizers to present an appearance
of party harmony. In the speeches Monday night, the harshest elements of the
30,000-word platform will be kept under wraps.

In most respects, this year's Republican platform is quite similar to the one
adopted four years ago. But it places much more emphasis on the economy,
endorsing Mr. Dole's call for deep tax cuts and a balanced budget and excludes a
few of the planks that some voters in 1992 found reactionary. For instance, the
1996 platform does not call for building a fence the entire length of the
Mexican border to keep out illegal immigrants.

The abortion language is essentially the same. It states: "The unborn child has
a fundamental individual right to life which cannot be infringed. We support a
human life amendment to the Constitution and we endorse legislation to make
clear that the Fourteenth Amendment's protections apply to unborn children. Our
purpose is to have legislative and judicial protection of that right against
those who perform abortions. We oppose using public revenues for abortion and
will not fund organizations which advocate it. We support the appointment of
judges who respect traditional family values and the sanctity of innocent human
life."

The only difference from four years ago is the sentence about "legislative and
judicial protection." That sentence was added to show that the party favored
prosecution of those who performed abortions, not the women on whom they were
performed.

On other issues, the party opposes affirmative action and promises to enforce
laws against "discrimination based on sex, race, age, creed or national origin."
But the next sentence states: "We reject the distortion of those laws to cover
sexual preference."

On immigration, the platform states: "We must set immigration at manageable
levels." The platform would deny Government benefits to illegal immigrants and
suggests that assistance to legal immigrants should be limited. It endorses a
Constitutional amendment that would allow citizenship to be denied to the
children born in this country to illegal immigrants and to foreigners in the
country legally for a short time like students, tourists and migrant workers.


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              357 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 15, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

THE REPUBLICANS: ON THE TICKET;
In New Role, Kemp Fights With His Past Over Ideology

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr.

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Aug. 14


After spending most of his political career as a fiscal conservative but social
moderate, even maverick, Jack Kemp has publicly reversed himself on issues as
touchy as immigration and affirmative action, and is now caught up in an
ideological wrestling match with himself to mesh his brand of Republicanism with
Bob Dole's more right-leaning brand.

The former New York Congressman, chosen by Mr. Dole as his running mate and
selected by acclamation at the party's national convention tonight, acknowledged
today that the tug-and-pull was under way -- leaving him lurching back and forth
between his old speech-making self and his new running-mate self in public
statements here this week.

"You're watching a metamorphosis," he said in an interview at the convention's
headquarters. "I would be a fool to put my feet down in a position where I can't
accommodate metamorphoses."

Mr. Dole favors elimination of affirmative action programs and the withholding
of most government services from illegal immigrants.

Mr. Kemp, at least before he became Mr. Dole's Vice-Presidential choice, was a
strong supporter of affirmative action and staunchly opposed withholding
government services like schooling and medical assistance from illegal
immigrants.

But over the course of the last six days, Mr. Kemp has reversed himself on
affirmative action and, in an interview published today by The Los Angeles
Times, on immigration. Then, after a few hours of publicity about those shifts,
Mr. Kemp seemed to shift again.

In the interview, he neither fully embraced the Dole view nor fully gave up his
own view. Rather, he came at the two issues elliptically, saying illegal
immigration had to be stopped, somehow, and that racial parity had to be found,
somehow.

"Obviously, I just can't do the laissez-faire approach I have in the past," he
said. But he insisted that the Dole-Kemp views were "reconcilable," and noted
that he was far from the first Vice-Presidential candidate to be caught up in an
ideological bind with the man at the top of the ticket.

Anyway, he added, Mr. Dole had moved toward him on the issue of tax cuts to
improve the economy, something Mr. Kemp has long favored and Mr. Dole, until a
few days ago, had long opposed.

The political challenge Mr. Kemp faces is that he must not come across as being
at ideological odds with Mr. Dole, yet he must seem to give the Republican
ticket a balancing measure of ideological moderation. That balance was a prime
reason Mr. Dole reached out to him.

Sitting in his shirt-sleeves in a borrowed office high above the sparkling San
Diego Harbor, words pouring out in that inimitable Kemp fashion, like a
dictionary going through a corn sheller, Mr. Kemp insisted there was absolute
unity on the Dole-Kemp ticket. "But unity does not require uniformity," he said.

What about withholding services from illegal immigrants and eliminating
affirmative action?

Mr. Kemp considered the question once again, and this time chose to come at it
from the side, saying that the best way to solve the illegal immigration problem
was to "close the door of illegal immigration so that we can keep the door of
legal immigration open."

In some earlier statements this week Mr. Kemp indicated that he favored
withholding government services, such as schooling, from illegal immigrants. But
he pulled up short of that today, saying instead that he believed illegal
immigration could be slowed by increased checking of credentials and birth
records and that the slowing could be accomplished without turning "California
or the country into a police state."

"My life is not about 187," he said, referring to Proposition 187, the 1994
California ballot initiative that called for withholding such services and
prompted calls for Federal legislation that would do the same.

As for affirmative action, Mr. Kemp in recent days has indicated support for the
California ballot initiative that would eliminate all affirmative action
programs based or race or sex, an initiative Mr. Dole has endorsed and one, like
Proposition 187, that also has prompted calls for similar Federal legislation.

But today Mr. Kemp did not directly embrace the initiative, preferring instead
to cite his close ties to the nation's blacks and to call racial and ethnic
reconciliation "one of the single greatest goals of this country on the eve of
the 21st century."

He also said Mr. Dole had promised him that the coming campaign would not be
racially charged or divisive, and said he was "comfortable" with that.

"Obviously, I would want to accommodate myself to the party that is going to
choose me, hopefully, to be Vice President," he said. "I can't go out and
freewheel and be an independent wildcatter like I was when I was in the House.
I've got to be myself, though."

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Since he was chosen by Bob Dole as his running mate last week,
Jack Kemp has reversed himself on affirmative action and immigration. Mr. Kemp
spoke yesterday to convention delegates from California. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              358 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 18, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
Citizenship Is a Malleable Concept

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS


IN an era of raw nationalism and turbulent migration across the globe, the
debate over who belongs in a country and who doesn't is becoming more harsh.
Just who has the right to be a citizen?

In the United States, a campaign to control immigration and limit citizenship is
growing, with Republicans proposing that children born to illegal immigrants be
denied citizenship and the right to free public education. Last month, erecting
another barrier to citizenship, President Clinton signed a welfare law cutting
benefits to immigrants, even those legally in the country.

In France, laws tightening conditions for French residence and citizenship have
prompted protests and hunger strikes by Africans under deportation orders. And
in the new countries of the former Soviet Union, drives to make language a
criterion of citizenship have threatened to leave millions stateless, if not
homeless.

Such cases illustrate that citizenship is far from a universally agreed upon
concept. Rosemary Jenks, director of policy analysis at the independent Center
for Immigration Studies in Washington, said methods of determining citizenship
vary widely around the world, although countries rely on one of two basic
criteria.

One becomes a citizen either by being born in the country or by descent -- that
is, by being born of a citizen or someone with citizen's rights, sometimes but
not always a legal immigrant of that country. In 1993, the center found that
only 12 of 38 nations surveyed granted birthright citizenship, among them the
United States, Canada, India, New Zealand and Spain.

For immigrants, there are naturalization processes, though in most countries
these are long, difficult and not automatic steps to citizenship. And in any
case laws don't tell the whole story. Ms. Jenks said even countries with
seemingly liberal statutes on the books give officials wide discretion to
withhold citizenship for cultural or political reasons.

In Asia, as in Europe, the notion of citizenship may be rooted deeply in
ethnicity and culture, closely related to long-established national boundaries.
It can be hard to give up as well as obtain.

Reflecting his country's strong allegiance to heritage, Thailand's Prime
Minister once told Thai-American children born in California that they must
always think of themselves as Thais first. Indian-Americans, both citizens and
immigrants, argue passionately in the letters columns of the New York newspaper
India Abroad about how much they should or should not try to integrate into
American life.

In Africa, ethnic identity runs thicker than national citizenship, reflecting
the fact that the continent's national borders were put in place a mere hundred
years ago by colonialists who drew lines on maps without reference to the people
in them.

"South Africa is perhaps the only country where we might see a real mosaic of
ethnicities included in the concept of citizenship," said Thomas R. Lansner, a
writer on Africa and a professor of international affairs at Columbia
University. Elsewhere in Africa, passports may mean nothing as ethnically
related people travel across boundaries to visit and trade, he said.

With at least one in every 21 people on Earth now on the move as a refugee or
displaced person, tides of migration and explosions of nationalism are already
rewriting citizenship, immigration and asylum laws. At the same time, people and
governments are grasping for other ways to draw a line around themselves.

It can start with what you wear. In the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan, a people of
Tibetan descent threatened by an influx of Nepali-speaking outsiders decided
some years ago to enforce the wearing of a traditional costume that was alien to
ethnic minorities -- a kind of visual identity card in the image of the
majority. Similarly, Laos once required women to wear traditional sarongs to
work in government offices.

In many places, new debates are under way over language, which can be a useful
unifier of people or an unnecessary divider. In the United States, the most
tolerant nation toward outsiders by far, rising immigration has prompted a
movement to codify English as the national language.




Language Barrier

Arthur C. Helton, an international lawyer who directs migration programs at the
Open Society Institute in New York, says language is a handy tool for
governments "to include or exclude those it wishes from the community."

From the Baltics to Kazakhstan, many people -- most but not all of them Russians
-- are being eliminated from participation in public life and sometimes barred
from schools because they do not speak the new official language. Or their
assimilation is made more difficult by the imposition of stringent language
requirements.

Language campaigns can have disastrous unintended consequences, says a Sri
Lankan poet, Anne Ranasinghe, who has been a citizen of three nations. Born a
Jew in Germany, she fled to England, where she married a Sri Lankan and adopted
his country, then Ceylon, as her own in 1952.

Four years later, the "Sinhala only" language policy gave the ethnic Sinhalese
majority advantages over Tamils and all other minorities, be they Malay,
European or Arab. Schoolchildren were divided linguistically, and people on an
island where Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam and Christianity all flourished soon
became conscious of religious differences. Tens of thousands have since died in
ethnic warfare and terrorism.

"I don't believe in patriotism," Ms. Ranasinghe said. "I think it's dangerous.
But on the other hand there has to be a certain concern for one's country. Here,
we are now simply concerned with our own groups, religious communities or
philosophical attitudes. Nobody cares for anyone else. We have lost the feeling
of citizenship."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a Paris church last week, illegal African immigrants
continued a more than monthlong hunger strike over restrictive new citizenship
and immigration laws. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              359 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
Stowaways Found on Ship

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 77 words

DATELINE: ELIZABETH


A cargo ship from Buenaventura, Colombia, was carrying at least six stowaways
from Ecuador when it docked in Elizabeth yesterday, said William Bittner, acting
deputy district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service's Newark
office. Officials said they were investigating whether a seventh man on board
the ship was a dockworker who had been held hostage by the stowaways. The man,
who was not identified, was being treated for a broken leg.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              360 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 24, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

News Summary

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 824 words



International   2-6

REGIONAL IMPETUS ON BURUNDI

Julius Nyerere, the former President of Tanzania, has been the driving force
behind the recent regional African effort to solve the ethnic crisis in Burundi
through sanctions and mediation.   1

CLOSING BOSNIA VOTE LOOPHOLES

Western monitors said they plan to correct manipulation of election rules by
Bosnian Serbs, which could affect important local contests, but they are
uncertain how to guarantee the integrity of the election.   6

Croatia and Yugoslavia signed a mutual recognition accord.   6

FRANCE ENDS IMMIGRANT PROTEST

France raided a church, ending a hunger strike by immigrants protesting
deportations -- a move welcomed by some as firmness against immigration and
denounced by others as intolerant.   6

EDGY TRUCE IN CHECHNYA

A cease-fire went into effect in Chechnya, but the status of President Boris
Yeltsin's national security adviser was unclear. Mr. Yeltsin appeared to be
trying to distance himself from the peace plan.   3

A bomb exploded at Moscow's busiest synagogue.   3

RARE GLIMPSE OF THE MAFIA

A top Mafia boss arrested in May was cooperating with Italian authorities,
offering a rare glimpse into mob activities, but authorities were cautious,
saying his cooperation could be a ruse.   4

CAMBODIA AMNESTY APPROVED

Cambodia approved amnesty for Ieng Sary, leader of one faction of the Khmer
Rouge, the Maoist movement blamed for mass killings in the 1970s, and his
followers.   2

A Kashmir storm killed at least 65 pilgrims and trapped thousands.   2

Rome Journal: A new look at Mamma and her name.   4

National   7-12

CLINTON ACTS TO CURB NICOTINE

The President in effect categorized nicotine as an addictive drug by announcing
restrictions to stop tobacco companies from encouraging youths to take up
smoking.   1

The new tobacco regulations face a big legal test in North Carolina.   8

G.O.P. CONTROL OF SENATE AT RISK

Control of the Senate is now in play after primaries in which Republican voters
chose very conservative candidates over moderates.   1

DOLE APPEALS FOR BLACK VOTE

Bob Dole declared that the Republican Party had needlessly abandoned black
voters to the Democratic Party and vowed to fight for their support in November.

   1

Bob Dole rejected a Republican proposal to restrict citizenship.   10

The liberal impulse will be haunting Democrats in Chicago.   11

The simpler photo ops of politicking now seem dated.   11

DOCTORS SHIFT TO NEW FIELDS

Many doctors, frustrated by restrictions on medicine, are building lucrative
practices in fields like cosmetic surgery where patients will pay even when
insurers will not.   1

CITADEL EMBRACING CO-EDUCATION

As The Citadel prepares for another school year, the small but defiant South
Carolina military college will execute an abrupt about face to embrace
co-education.   7

DISPUTE ON BID FOR CATHOLIC UNITY

A dispute has erupted over plans by the Archbishop of Chicago to lead an effort
to find "common ground" among Catholics to try to decrease polarization in the
church.   7

AIRLINE BLAMES PILOT FOR CRASH

The captain of an American Airlines jet that crashed in Colombia in 1995 entered
an incorrect computer command that sent the plane into a mountain, the airline
said.   9

Metro Report   25-28

EXPLOSIVE TRACES CONFIRMED

 The Federal Bureau of Investigation confirmed that its crime lab in Washington
had found traces of plastic explosive residue on a piece of wreckage from Trans
World Airlines Flight 800.   1

Business Digest   35

Arts/Entertainment   15-20, 24

Globe Theater lives again.   15

Theodore Mann quits Circle in the Square.   15

A different Jacob's Pillow show.   18

Film: "Carpool."   20

"Solo."   20

Music: I Solisti Veneti   17

"Reggae Madness."   17

Television: "Life With Roger."   15

Sports   29-33   Baseball: Yankees beat A's.   29

Yanks deal Bob Wickman and Gerald Williams to Brewers.   31

Major league roundup   30

Boxing: Pazienza stops Rosenblatt.   33

Column: Rhoden on Reeves   29

Golf: Woods moves toward third amateur title.   29

Horse racing: Travers Stakes preview   31

Tennis: Pat Cash tries to qualify for United States Open.   33

Obituaries   13

Editorials/Op-Ed   22-23

Editorials

Saving the fish.

A healing truth in South Africa.

Crackdown on teen smoking.

Letters

Russell Baker: The way we live now.

Chester E. Finn Jr.: Teachers vs. education.

Joseph A. Califano Jr.: Welfare's drug connection.

Mihir Desai: The end of everything.

Bridge   19

Crossword   19

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              361 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 26, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 954 words



NEW YORK

Welfare Bill Sows Anxiety
In New York City, where more than half the residents are immigrants or the
children of immigrants, a sense of panic and confusion has rippled from the
shores of Brighton Beach to the streets of Washington Heights as the
far-reaching Federal welfare bill has become law, affecting millions of people,
but perhaps none so immediately as the foreign-born. Ever since President
Clinton promised earlier this month to sign the legislation, a vast overhaul of
Federal welfare policy that includes severe limits on Government aid to
noncitizens, the number of immigrants and refugees seeking naturalization has
jumped sharply in New York City, straining the services of immigrant
organizations. [Page A1.]

Major Gains in Drug Crackdown
Using an assortment of old and new tactics to eliminate the drug trade in
high-crime neighborhoods, the New York Police Department is seeing the first
fruits of an ambitious drug crackdown that aims at both low-level dealers and
their suppliers. Significant results are already being seen in most of the
highlighted areas in lower Manhattan, northern Brooklyn and the central Bronx,
where 1,200 more officers have been assigned since January and are working more
closely with Federal law enforcement agencies than ever. [A1.]

New York City's Mr. Memory
He calls himself Mr. Memory after the character in a Hitchcock movie, "The 39
Steps," and he makes a habit of memorizing 50 new facts a day. Jonathan Kuhn,
the director of art and antiquities for the New York City Parks Department, is
the man who will eagerly tell you more than you will ever need to know about
each of the city's 1,700 monuments, not all of which depict politicians and
generals. In a decade on the job, he has answered 10,000 questions from
interested citizens, staged 25 art exhibitions and, more often than not,
satisfied the curiosity of his boss, Henry J. Stern, the quirky Parks
Commissioner. [B1.]

'Homeless Judge' Has Her Say
Justice Helen E. Freedman of State Supreme Court finds mass tort litigation
intriguing and likes working weekends because the phone is silent. Hardly does
this reserved, soft-spoken judge seem the type to engender hostility. But she is
the city's "homeless judge," evaluating the services for the homeless and
penalizing its failures. She has irritated three successive mayors, and last
week City Hall got personal. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani accused her of "ruling on
her own personal ideology." In an interview, the 53-year-old judge conceded the
Mayor's implicit charge: Yes, she is personally a liberal and, yes, she is a
Democrat. And so be it. "No judge comes to the bench totally devoid of any
beliefs or feelings," she said. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. [B1.]

Limiting Students' Passes
In an effort to save money, the Transit Authority plans to replace the subway
and bus passes that schoolchildren get with Metrocards, which will allow the
authority to limit the number of trips the students can take each day. About
500,000 students are now issued passes that allow them to travel to school at no
cost or for a reduced fare on buses and subways. But the Transit Authority says
that it loses $5 million each year to students who use the passes for extra free
trips. School officials, however, have raised concerns about aspects of the
Transit Authority's plan. [B3.]

Mistakenly fearing that two ill siblings who had recently come from Africa might
be suffering from the highly contagious Ebola virus, officials shut down a
hospital's emergency room when they were brought there. [B3.]

THE CONVENTION

Not Just Any Role for Cuomo
His party is going to be "tiptoeing through troubled waters, a stone at a time"
at its national convention that opens in Chicago today. But former Gov. Mario M.
Cuomo said that he was not sure whether his fellow Democrats would want him to
join them there. This year, he said, he will not go to the convention if he does
not receive a major speaking assignment. The National Report. [A10.]

REGION

What's That Thing in the Sky?
All things being equal, Linda Kabot says she wishes she had never taken the
photograph. But she did. In the dusky sky that serves as a backdrop for the
otherwise routine snapshot, there appears to be a cylindrical object with one
end aglow. On another day and in another part of the country, the object -- if
it is an object -- would have been dismissed as an optical illusion. But Mrs.
Kabot took the photograph on the night of July 17, when Trans World Airlines
Flight 800 exploded just a few miles south from where she stood with her camera.
The F.B.I. requested and received the photographs as well as the negatives. Word
soon got around the Town of Southampton, and now just about everybody knows
about the photograph. And they all have the same question. That thing in the
sky: Is it a missile? [B1.]

NEW JERSEY

For Democrats, a Fear of Florio
A few New Jersey Democrats looking to challenge Gov. Christine Todd Whitman next
year are courting delegates with parties and baseball tickets at the Democratic
National Convention. But the most talked-about Democratic gubernatorial
prospect, former Gov. Jim Florio, will not be holding such bashes in Chicago.
Instead, Mr. Florio will be in front of a television camera as a commentator for
WOR. Even though Mr. Florio denies that he is a contender, he has stepped up his
public appearances. He told students at a recent lecture that he is considering
a bid. State Democratic Party leaders think that Mr. Florio could win a crowded
Democratic primary next year. And the prospect is sending shudders through the
party organization. [B1.]

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              362 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 28, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

About New York;
Immigrant Finds Hope In Bank's Calm

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 740 words


LAST winter, Hao Ci Chen saw dress shirts all around him -- piles of them inside
a noisy, windowless Brooklyn sweatshop, where he earned a penny for every
dangling string he cut from each button. It wasn't a great job, but as is the
case with many of his friends, it was all Hao Ci, a 14-year-old Chinese
immigrant, could find in Sunset Park.

At least somebody from the neighborhood helped him find a new job for the
summer. True, he's still surrounded by dress shirts, but he doesn't mind. This
job is in the financial district at the Bank of New York, where he sorts checks
before they are processed.

It's a stretch going from hissing steam irons and clattering sewing machines to
the bank's sedate and antiseptic corridors. But that's the least of it for a
young man who is the first person in his family to enter the world of white
collars and shined shoes.

"Everybody in my family is happy for me," said Hao Ci (pronounced HOW SEE).
"They never had a job like me. Big, successful. Sometimes, it makes me feel like
the head of my family. I joke with my mother that I make more money than her."

Gary Kuhn, his mentor from Big Brothers/Big Sisters of New York City, knows that
feeling well from his own childhood in Sunset Park. He helped Hao Ci get the
internship, which pays $6.50 an hour and is usually reserved for college
students. Now he's helping him bridge the gap between the cultures of the
neighborhood and the workplace.

"My father was a factory worker and my mother was a waitress," said Mr. Kuhn,
the bank's assistant treasurer. "I remember going home and saying, 'I got a job
at a bank and I'll get to wear a suit and tie.' To this day, they don't
understand this part of my life. I'm an officer of the bank. They're proud, but
they don't understand what it means."

WHEN Hao Ci worked at the factory for three months, he understood he was being
taken advantage of, from the $20 paydays for a 12-hour weekend shift to the grim
conditions where he stood for hours. "They once paid me $2.50 an hour to iron
little tie thingies, belts for dresses," he said of his highest-paying chore. "I
burned myself."

He said it mattered little that his employer burned him on salary and mysterious
deductions, as long as he earned enough to help his mother, also a factory
worker. He wanted to take care of himself, too, even if he made less than the
minimum wage.

"Who cares, if you get the money," he said. "We all knew we could get the boss
arrested. But we think everybody there working needs the money. Illegal aliens."

Arriving late to a meeting with his mentor one day after messing up a batch of
clothes at the factory, Hao Ci admitted that he was working in a sweatshop. Mr.
Kuhn, worried that the boy would forget about his schoolwork for the lure of a
paycheck, persuaded him to leave the factory and helped him get the bank
internship.

Mr. Kuhn smiles when he talks about his relationship with the boy, even if it
has had its share of misunderstandings. Like the time the two discovered they
were from the same Brooklyn neighborhood.

"Get out of here!" Mr. Kuhn remembered telling Hao Ci, who reacted with a
puzzled face.

"Why?" Hao Ci asked.

"No, not really get out of here," Mr. Kuhn explained.

THEIR working-class-neighborhood roots and their quiet personalities helped them
form a bond. "I felt I met somebody I could share something with and
understand," said Mr. Kuhn, who now lives in New Jersey. "My wife grew up in
Staten Island, but talking to her about Brooklyn was like talking about China."

When he looks around at his co-workers, Hao Ci admits that it baffles him to see
people getting paid for shuffling papers. Other times, he hints at impatience
with what looks like his co-workers' leisurely work pace compared to where he
once worked.

"When I was in the factory I worked hard and didn't get a break," he said. "Just
keep working. Here, they pay me for hours, break and everything."

Sometimes on those breaks, he goes up to the cafeteria, taking in the sweeping
views of Manhattan with its sprawling urban bustle. It reminds him of his first
days in this country, when every building, every street spoke to him of success.

"The big buildings, these high-class people and how they make money," he said of
the thoughts that cross his mind when he looks out the window now. "It reminds
me to stay in school. I want to be in one of those big buildings someday."

No sweat.

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              363 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 1, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS;
In His Own Words

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 36;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 142 words



JACK KEMP

Speaking at the plant of Industrial Mechanical, a metals contracting plant in
Phoenix, yesterday:

"When people say, 'We don't want any immigrants,' I ask them, 'What's your name?
What was your daddy? What was your granddaddy? How about your mom?' This
movement of blaming immigrants -- we're not talking illegal immigration here,
folks, we're talking legal immigration, lawful immigration.

"It's one of the hopes of this country. People do not come lawfully into America
for welfare. They come for their families. They don't come for food stamps. They
come for their children. They come for the same reason that our mothers and
fathers came to this shore.

"And I really believe that this idea of bashing other people, scapegoating other
religions, scapegoating people of color, scapegoating other countries, has got
to stop."

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              364 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 5, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Classes Open in New York City, In Closets, Hallways, Cafeterias

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1607 words


With classrooms crammed into oversized closets, cordoned off in auditoriums and
plunked into locker rooms, New York City schools opened yesterday to the worst
overcrowding in decades.

Across the city, there were signs of strain and some confusion, not just from
the overflow of students, 91,000 more than the school system can comfortably
accommodate, but also from unfinished construction and the forced reorganization
of some of the most severely troubled schools.

Lines of students trying to register stretched for blocks. Some schools had so
many new students, many of them recent immigrants, trying to sign up that they
had to turn away applicants for the day, saying they could not find time to
evaluate and register everyone.

The overcrowding is a result of a combination of factors: immigrants flooding
into the system, the effects of a miniature baby boom, fewer students dropping
out and the failure to build new classrooms in time to accommodate the overflow.

Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani pledged to try to alleviate the crowding by "producing
more spaces, more buildings that are habitable." While he was not specific, he
faulted state mandates that require spending on programs like special education
instead of more pressing needs like finding new classroom space.

This year, 20,000 new students enrolled in the system at the same time the
dropout rate declined, bringing the total of students to 1.06 million. That has
left the system almost 10 percent over capacity, forcing the largest classes to
grow to as many as 45. The maximum under the teachers' contract is 34.

Sandra Feldman, the president of the teachers' union, who on Wednesday
threatened to pull her members out of schools where overcrowded conditions posed
a danger to teachers or students, said yesterday that it was too early to tell
if such a reaction was warranted.

"I couldn't say that at this point because not all of the children are in yet,"
Ms. Feldman said, noting that it would take days for all of the new students to
be registered and start classes. "We hope we don't have to do that, but we're
putting people on notice."

Yesterday, more than 500,000 students in the city's high schools and junior
highs showed up, mostly to register and go to home room, and today, elementary
school students begin classes.

At Intermediate School 61 in Corona, Queens, the teachers' cafeteria will become
a classroom when teachers are not eating, as will a small projection room above
the auditorium, and guidance counselors will meet with students in 8-foot-by-10
foot, windowless closets, which the principal said may also be used for small
special education classes. At Middle School 206 in the Bronx, the library has
been given over to two eighth-grade classes, with the books moved to shelves in
a science classroom.

"I might have to make a new class, but I don't know where I'll put it," said the
principal, Carmen Jimenes. "Maybe on the roof."

In Edgemere in the Rockaways, Queens, junior high school students began the year
in an elementary school because their school was being used to house students
from a third school whose exterior walls crumbled during the summer.

Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew visited the sparkling new Long Island City High
School in Queens yesterday and seemed stunned by such luxuries as a pool and 14
computer rooms that only underscored the deprivation and overburdened state of
many other schools.

"We have a very, very, very disparate situation," Dr. Crew said of the varied
conditions throughout the system. "This is going to be a very, very critical
year for us in trying to respond to this issue."

Dr. Crew added, "I think that there's no greater need right now than to put
great, great attention and resources behind this issue, and I think we're going
to do that."

Dr. Crew did not specify how he would correct the overcrowding, but he said he
thought it would take Federal and state money. The Chancellor visited several
other schools yesterday that were not nearly so gleaming and well equipped, but
he did not take reporters or photographers with him to those schools.

There was no end to schools' innovation in dealing with the influx of students.
And despite the crowding, there were bright spots, some surprising.

At Intermediate School 193 in the Bronx, a school deemed so troubled -- 70
percent of its students failed to meet the minimum state reading standard --
that it was virtually taken over by the city and forced to reorganize, the first
day of school ran like clockwork.

The halls shone and the classrooms bustled with activity. The principal, Leoncio
Torres, led a reporter, two representatives from Chancellor Crew's office and a
monitor from the State Education Department on a 40-minute tour of the building,
taking evident pride in the waxed floors, graffiti-free hallways and brightly
decorated classrooms.

"This is a culture change," Mr. Torres said. "We are creating a positive
environment for these children. We will give them every chance to succeed."

A middle school in Brooklyn, I.S. 57, had also revamped itself, but had another
problem: only 34 of the 400 registered students showed up yesterday. The school
had performed so poorly in recent years that its program was one of those
ordered reorganized by the city after the state put it on a watch list, and
teachers said yesterday that many parents were not sure that the school would
open.

Other schools were less prepared. As late as half an hour after school should
have started at Public School 34, a new school for special-education students in
the Tremont section of the Bronx, painters were still slapping red paint on the
building trim and the school fence, workers were delivering furniture and a
Nynex crew was still trying to hook up the phones.

"I want a school that is really ready for my child," said a mother who was
registering her son, but decided not to leave him at the school until later this
week.

"But in New York City, it is hard," said the woman, who declined to give her
name. "The other schools I wanted, they were all full. Maybe this one is the
solution when it is finished."

Ms. Feldman, the union president, visited I.S. 61 in Corona yesterday morning,
pronouncing the overcrowding "absolutely nontolerable" and "abominable" in the
school, which was built for 1,450 students but has already registered 2,200,
with a line of prospective students streaming down the street.

A locker room, small even with the lockers removed, had been turned into a
classroom. The airless closets where tutors and guidance counselors would hold
court were "really very awful places," Ms. Feldman said. Classes held in the
teachers' cafeteria, she said, would be subjected to "the odor of food, which is
very distracting, and it is right next door to the student cafeteria, so there
is lots of noise."

William Franco, 12, a seventh grader, said it was not the tight squeeze in the
classrooms that disturbed him.

"But when the bell rings, there are so many people you can hardly move," he
said, adding that the crush in the hallways made him afraid that someone would
trip him. "The stairs. You can hardly walk up them because there are so many
people."

Ms. Feldman said it was "quite remarkable what the school there is doing,
because they're coping with an untenable situation."

At Bushwick High School in Brooklyn and Richmond Hill High School in Queens, two
of the most overtaxed schools with more than twice the number of students they
were built for, the school day has been divided into two schedules, for older
grades and younger grades.

The principals say the schedules are flexible enough so that students who need
extra class time can have it.

Still, in permitting shorter schooldays to ease overcrowding, New York City
school officials routinely violate the state's requirement that high school
students spend five and a half hours a day in class.

Last January, the State Department of Education found that 75,000 of the city's
300,000 high school students were spending less than five and a half hours in
class and more than 24,000 spent less than four and a half hours.

The overcrowding has been fueled by increased immigration, particularly of
families from the Dominican Republic, Mexico and Asia, and also by an increase
in students who stay in high school longer than four years.

And it has been aggravated by budget constraints. The Board of Education has
predicted that by 2004, the school system would need to construct enough space
for 300,000 students. But the board's current five-year capital plan has enough
money to build space for only 30,000 students, with most of the $2.9 billion
dedicated to paying for repairs to existing buildings.

Mr. Crew, surveying the impressive Long Island City school, was well aware that
it was not typical of the system.

"You have a tale of two cities here," he said at the red-brick building that
opened last year after decades of lobbying from the Queens Borough president and
Carol Gresser, the former school board president who is now a board
representative from Queens. Ms. Gresser said yesterday that the new $114 million
building was first proposed in 1967, on the heels of an earlier baby boom.

Dr. Crew said: "You have schools like this that are absolutely phenomenal in
terms of what they provide for kids, what's available for youngsters in these
schools, certainly the state-of-the-art technology that I saw here. And then you
have schools that are desperate in these same areas, don't have any technology
and are trying desperately to get grants and so forth just to get their first
room outfitted."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yanelka Rodrigues, above at left, waited over an hour with her
mother, Juana, to register for sixth grade at Intermediate School 61 in Corona,
Queens. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times); Students encountered wet-paint
signs, right, when they arrived at Public School 34 in the East Tremont section
of the Bronx. The school is still unfinished. (Jim Estrin/The New York
Times)(pg. B6); New York City schools opened yesterday to the worst overcrowding
in decades. On the Upper West Side, students and parents filled the sidewalk as
they waited for the doors to open at Brandeis High School. (Chester Higgins
Jr./The New York Times)(pg. A1)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              365 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 6, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

School Overcrowding to Last, New York City Officials Say

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words


As New York City's 660 elementary schools reopened yesterday, Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani and Schools Chancellor Rudy Crew said that the overcrowding at many
schools would be a fact of life for tens of thousands of students and teachers
for some time to come.

"I think you have to have some patience and flexibility in dealing with this,"
Mr. Giuliani, who was flanked by the Chancellor, told reporters during a visit
to an intermediate school in Midwood, Brooklyn, one of the more crowded
districts in the city.

The Chancellor added: "This is going to be a problem for a bit of time. We're
not going to be able to rid ourselves of this in six months."

Mr. Giuliani attributed the overcrowding not to a lack of money but to the
difficulty of projecting where enrollment would surge so more classrooms could
be built in time. Because of recent immigration, all the schools in Jackson
Heights, Queens, for example, are overcrowded. [Page B3.] But schools on the
Lower East Side of Manhattan are underused.

"I think when you're spending $8 billion on a school system and you have $4
billion for reconstruction and construction, it's not a money problem," the
Mayor said, including in the construction figure a $1.4 billion emergency fund
proposed, but not yet delivered, by City Hall and the City Council.

"It's a question of organization," he said. "It's a question of being able to
figure out how to spend that money, and unfortunately there's some lack of
planning in the system, which just seems to be because you don't know where
you're going to be affected by it."

The Mayor said that a surge of immigrants had caused some of the overcrowding,
but added that it would be wrong to blame them for the system's struggles.
"Otherwise, you will feed a national agenda which says that this can't be done,
and therefore immigrant children should be thrown out of school," said the
Mayor, who has bucked the conservative wing of the Republican party by
championing immigrants' rights to education and medical care.

In the first indication that overcrowding could become an issue in next year's
mayoral election, Borough President Ruth W. Messinger of Manhattan, who is
expected to seek the Democratic nomination, said Mr. Giuliani shared as much
blame as anyone for the system's being nearly 10 percent over capacity and
having enough money to build only 30,000 of the 300,000 new classroom seats it
will need by 2004.

Speaking of extensive delays at more than 10 schools or additions now under
construction, Ms. Messinger noted that Mr. Giuliani had appointed one of the
three board members of the School Construction Authority, which is building
those classrooms. "Where is City Hall's vigilance when it comes to insuring our
schools are completed in a timely and efficient manner?" Ms. Messinger said in a
statement. "This is reckless endangerment of our children's future."

A day after the city's junior high schools and high schools opened to long lines
of parents seeking to register their children, many of the half-million students
who returned to elementary schools yesterday were subjected to similar
inconveniences, particularly those registering for kindergarten. But the second
day of the two-day opening was widely described as orderly.

There were, however, exceptions.

Two newly constructed schools in the Bronx opened their classrooms, but not
their cafeteria kitchens, which were still being installed. Carpenters continued
to build the kindergarten classrooms at a new school in Brooklyn, turning away
parents and children until they are able to finish the job. And an elementary
school in an old airplane parts factory in Queens, which was supposed to relieve
overcrowding at two other schools, did not open because of continuing tests of
the safety of its air.

Some schools, like Richmond Hill High School in Queens, managed yesterday to
accommodate the dozens of students who were turned away from registration on
Wednesday because of long lines. While no students were sent away from Public
School 114 in Canarsie yesterday, the first-grade classes were paying the price:
by the end of the day they had swelled to 43 students each, well above the limit
of 32 in the new teacher's contract.

"They are coming to register in droves," said Phyllis Gonon, the Superintendent
of District 18, citing a stream of immigrants from Russia, Poland and the
Caribbean. "We don't know where it will end."

Public School 65 was supposed to open yesterday in the old airplane-parts
factory in Ozone Park, taking in 248 students from two overcrowded elementary
schools. But yesterday the students remained in their old schools -- sequestered
in the auditorium and, later, the empty kindergarten rooms after an early
dismissal -- while the Board of Education tested the air quality in the new
school.

Tests conducted by the Board last week showed no elevated levels of
trichloroethene, a carcinogen that was once used as an industrial cleanser at
the site, said Doris Gonzalez-Light, a Board spokeswoman. But the city and state
Departments of Health ordered new tests. "This is clearly a matter of just being
very conservative, very careful," said Fred Winters, a City Health Department
spokesman.

But for all the instances of confusion, there were unmistakable pockets of joy
throughout the system yesterday.

Amar Phillip, who turns 6 next Tuesday, awoke promptly at 6 A.M. in his Bronx
apartment, unable to contain his glee at starting first grade at the Ella Baker
School, a new elementary school in the Julia Richman Educational Complex on the
East Side of Manhattan. The school's founders hope that students like Amar will
spend the next 12 years in the building -- the first 8 at Ella Baker and the
next 4 at one of several small high schools on surrounding floors.

If the first day was any indication, Amar will need little persuading.

"I'm having fun today," he said to a new playmate, Jordan Michelle Rochester, as
they painted together. "Are you having fun?"

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The overstuffed condition of New York City's elementary schools
was evident yesterday at Public School 106 in the Bronx, where Sally Maltese,
right, was one of two teachers in kindergarten class of 50 students. Ms. Maltese
bent over a desk to talk to a pupil a short time after classes began yesterday
morning. New York City officials said that while they were trying to help,
overcrowded conditions in many schools would last indefinitely. (Fred R.
Conrad/The New York Times); Amar Phillip's school year began shortly after 6
A.M. yesterday, left, as he struggled to get his pants on in his family's
apartment in the Parkchester section of the Bronx. Later, in his first-grade
classroom at the Ella Baker School, a new school on East 67th Street in
Manhattan, Amar, 6, and his mother, Judith Griffith-Phillip, above, hugged
goodbye. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B3); Overcrowding is
so bad at Public School 195 in Rosedale, Queens, that desks have to double as
storage space. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)(pg. B1)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              366 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 8, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE IMMIGRANTS;
Rush to Mint Citizens Skips Checks, Raising Political Doubts

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;   Page 28;   Column 3;   National Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 7


As part of a push to grant citizenship to 1.2 million immigrants, an effort that
some say was motivated by election-year politics, the Clinton Administration
mistakenly allowed tens of thousands to become Americans before checks for
criminal records were completed.

Officials at the Immigration and Naturalization Service acknowledge the errors,
including 30,000 in New York alone, but attribute them to misrouted paper work.
They say the drive, begun in August 1995 and known as Citizenship U.S.A., was
simply an effort to clear a backlog, not to create a pool of new voters likely
to have a Democratic preferences.

"It's caused us all kinds of undue hardship that this happens to match the
political calendar," said David Rosenberg, director of the program. "It's simply
not true that politics played a role in this program."

Documents suggest that the White House was keenly interested in the citizenship
effort but was warned by the agency that speeding up the process too much would
be viewed as blatantly political.

"I.N.S. warns that if we are too aggressive at removing the roadblocks to
success, we might be publicly criticized for running a pro-Democratic voter mill
and even risk having Congress stop us," cautioned one memorandum prepared by
Vice President Al Gore's staff for President Clinton.

Passages from the memo were obtained by The Associated Press from individuals
familiar with it.

None of the agency's official documents announcing the program mention the
election. But documents gathered by investigators for the House Committee on
Government Reform and Oversight and interviews suggest that at least some
believed that a central motive was to enable the immigrants to vote -- something
the new citizens will be able to do for the first time this fall.

When the Citizenship U.S.A. program took effect in August 1995, it concentrated
on the electoral-rich and immigrant-heavy states of Florida, Texas, Illinois,
California and New York. Agency officials say the program is on track to meet
its goal of naturalizing 1.2 million immigrants by the end of this month, nearly
doubling last year's rate, when about 500,000 were naturalized.

Dozens of I.N.S. officials have told Republican Congressional staff members that
the pressure to process legal immigrants for citizenship by the deadline was
immense and resulted in the lax handling of applications.

In New York, immigration officials discovered that they had processed as many as
30,000 immigrants for citizenship who had never undergone the required criminal
checks by the Federal Bureau of Investigation because paper work was sent to the
wrong office. Thirty-six people who were naturalized were later found to have
felony criminal records, and their citizenship is being revoked.

In Arlington, Va., a box with records for at least 500 immigrants whom the
F.B.I. had identified as having arrest records was not found until after many
were already being processed for citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              367 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 8, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WORK

SECTION: Section 6;  Page 14;  Column 4;  Magazine Desk

LENGTH: 157 words


The strictures of political correctness at Harvard probably prohibited Wilson
from a more incisive discussion of the unfortunate state of the job market for
black ghetto dwellers. Thanks to three decades of more-or-less open-door
immigration policy, the market for low-skilled labor is greatly oversupplied. As
Wilson notes, employers seem to prefer to hire immigrants first, native blacks
last.

What the Woodlawn ghetto dwellers really need is a tighter labor market, at
which point more would be absorbed into the work force. This, however, means
greatly reduced immigration. Judging by the fate of the recent Simpson-Smith
immigration bills, this is not going to happen anymore than the expensive
remedial programs suggested by Wilson in his article. It is unfortunate that he
wasted this opportunity to frame the key issue: oversupply that differentially
disfavors blacks.

WILLIAM E. MURRAY JR.
Portola Valley, Calif.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              368 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 11, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

ROOTS OF EXILE: A special report.;
A Refugee's Body Is Intact but Her Family Is Torn

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 5017 words

DATELINE: KPALIME, Togo


Hajia Zuwera Kassindja bowed her head to the patriarch of her dead husband's
family on a recent steamy morning, her face a cryptic mask of sorrow. She had
come to beg his forgiveness for having helped her daughter Fauziya run away to
America to escape having her genitals cut off.

The patriarch had arranged almost two years earlier for Fauziya, then 17, to
undergo the harrowing rite. For millennia, girls across Africa have done the
same. Mrs. Kassindja's only sister had died from her genital wound.

Mrs. Kassindja herself had only recently learned that her daughter had been
given asylum in the United States after being behind bars for more than a year.
It took a precedent-setting decision in June by the highest administrative
tribunal in the American immigration system to recognize that cutting off a
woman's clitoris against her will is an act of persecution. The tribunal, the
Board of Immigration Appeals, overturned the decision of an immigration judge
who had dismissed Miss Kassindja's story as irrational and incredible.

But interviews in Togo with the aunt and patriarch who arranged for the genital
cutting, the husband-to-be who insisted upon it and the mother and sister who
helped Miss Kassindja flee, confirm that the board was right to believe her.

The daughter's victory came at great cost to her mother. Mrs. Kassindja had
given almost all her $3,500 inheritance to Fauziya to run away, buying her
daughter's freedom at the expense of her own. Afterward, the unlettered mother
of seven wandered from Togo to Benin to Nigeria and back to Togo, dependent on
the charity of relatives and friends.

Her daughter had told her that she was now safe, and so Mrs. Kassindja had come
to the dusty courtyard of the patriarch's house in Kpalime, (pronounced
pah-lee-MAY), a town of about 50,000 in this small West African country, to ask
him to allow her to live in his plain cement compound. "Since Fauziya left, I've
had no peace," Mrs. Kassindja said before making her apology. "That is why I've
come here, to make peace in the family."

She wore a sheer fuchsia scarf edged with delicate embroidery that swathed her
head and swept gracefully to her knees. A fruit tree formed a canopy over the
ceremony of contrition.

"What the mother did pains me a lot," the patriarch, Mouhamadou Kassindja, said
in a scolding tone, speaking in the language of the Tchamba area of Togo, as
Mrs. Kassindja hung her head during the ceremony. "She is my brother's wife. It
is for me to take care of my brother's child since he is no longer alive.

"She acted as though the child were hers. She and the child made the laws. That
is why the child did not want to follow the customs."

Here in Togo, Mrs. Kassindja's apology was one of the few reverberations of her
daughter's escape. The case made headlines in the United States and brought
renewed international attention to the practice of female genital cutting, but
it has gone virtually unnoticed in Togo except among women's-rights advocates
who paid attention to brief news agency items in newspapers or heard fleeting
radio reports from France.

The rite is still largely a private matter handled within the confines of
family. Had Miss Kassindja stayed in her homeland and asked the Government to
protect her from her father's family, her request would itself have been
unprecedented. Togolese officials say no girl here has ever done such a thing.

And Mrs. Kassindja's apology suggests the price of defying such an entrenched
patriarchal custom. A reticent, modest woman, she asked that no photograph of
her be published, except of her apologizing.

The Kassindja family, like others across the continent's midsection, is caught
between the competing claims of tradition and modernity. While the elders say
that female genital cutting must continue because it has been the custom since
antiquity, some in the younger generation question a rite that forces girls to
risk their lives and blights the marriage bed, lessening or even deadening
sexual pleasure for the woman.

The conflict has etched a new chapter in the saga of this deeply riven African
family. It began with the extraordinary decision of an ordinary mother and
father to resist the traditions of their people for the sake of their daughters.
And later, after the father's death, it illuminated the redeeming power of a
mother's love.

The Family
A Prospering Father Protected His Girls

Hajia and Muhammad Kassindja met in the 1960's as teen-agers at the open-air
market in Kpalime, a small town of farmers and traders nestled in a lush valley
surrounded by green, palm-topped mountains.

Back then, she sold soap, face powder, skin cream and assorted tins and bottles
from a neatly stacked wooden table in a teeming warren of stalls. He was a truck
driver who delivered goods to the market.

The marriage produced five daughters and two sons. Mr. Kassindja built a
trucking business that made the family rich by Kpalime's standards. And Mrs.
Kassindja sold household items from a stall in front of their home. They lived
in an eight-bedroom cement compound built around a courtyard adorned with
flowers and a pond. It was outfitted with electricity and running water,
luxuries many homes here lack.

Mr. Kassindja was rich enough to send his wife on a pilgrimage to Mecca, to hire
a houseboy to do chores -- and to make some very unconventional choices.

Though it was common among the Muslims of Tchamba to take as many as four wives,
Mr. Kassindja wanted only Hajia.

He also shielded his daughters from genital cutting. He could recall the screams
of his sister during the rite and her suffering afterward, when she developed a
tetanus infection. And his wife often spoke of the death of her older sister
from a genital wound. The tragedy had led Hajia's parents to spare her from the
practice.

Though the Kassindjas could not read or write, they wanted all their children,
including their daughters, to be educated.

Mr. Kassindja's decisions brought stinging disapproval from his extended family.
They accused him of trying to act like a white man. His girls would never be
considered full Tchamba women until their genitals had been cut, the elders
said, and he was wasting money by sending them to high school.

But Mr. Kassindja kept a distance from his relatives, including his cousin, who
lived a few blocks away. "He was a rich man, so the family couldn't tell him
anything," said the cousin, Mouhamadou Kassindja, now the family patriarch.

One by one, the daughters grew up and married men of their own choosing without
being cut, until only Fauziya was left.

The baby girl of the family, Fauziya had her father's nose, her mother's poise
and a wry sense of humor. She was her father's favorite. He sent her to a
boarding school in Ghana so she could learn English and help him in his
business. He was proud that during vacations she studied at Kpalime's Islamic
school, where the patriarch taught. And he was determined to protect her from
genital cutting.

Calamity struck the family on Jan. 16, 1993, when Mr. Kassindja died. Fauziya,
then 16, had entered the years when the Tchamba believe a girl must have her
genitals cut and be married.

After the funeral, Fauziya returned to school. But there was no return to
normality for her mother, whom Fauziya has not seen since. Four months and 10
days after her husband's death, as patriarchal, Muslim-influenced Tchamba
tradition dictates, his family required Mrs. Kassindja to leave the home where
she had raised her seven children.

Her husband's only sibling, a widowed sister, Hadja Mamoude, moved in and took
responsibility for Fauziya. In 1994, two years before Fauziya was to graduate,
the aunt, who is herself illiterate, ended Fauziya's education.

"We don't want girls to go to school too much," said the aunt during an
interview in her spare, windowless bedroom. "We don't think girls should be too
civilized."

At the same time, the aunt and patriarch were arranging Fauziya's marriage to
Issakah Ibrahim, an electrician and trader in kola nuts whose family, like the
Kassindjas, was originally from the village of Koussountou.

Mr. Ibrahim, who said he was 28, not 45 as Fauziya believed, had three wives --
two age 22 and one 20. He had decided he wanted Fauziya to be the fourth. "She
was well-educated, civilized and polite," he said.

There was one condition. All of Mr. Ibrahim's wives had had their genitals cut,
and he expected Fauziya to be no exception. Mr. Kassindja agreed. While some in
his family have had both the clitoris and genital lips cut off, Mr. Kassindja
said only Fauziya's clitoris would have been excised.

The patriarch accepted the businessman's gifts to seal the marriage: four bolts
of brilliantly patterned cloth, six veils, two pairs of shoes, four head
scarves, a large washbasin and about $20.

Mrs. Mamoude, herself the second of three wives, broke the news to Fauziya. The
aunt's eyes still get a hard look and her hands slash the air angrily at the
memory of her niece's obstinacy. "It was for me to decide what was best for
her," she said.

Mrs. Mamoude said that she could tell Fauziya did not want to marry or be cut,
though the young woman did not openly refuse. But Fauziya said she pleaded all
summer with her aunt not to make her marry Mr. Ibrahim. Her aunt was angered and
stopped calling her by name, Fauziya said, referring to her only as "Hey you,
who has no respect."

The Escape
On Wedding Day, A Taxi to Freedom

Fauziya's mother had lost her husband, her home and the right to raise her
child. She had tried begging her husband's family to let her daughter continue
her schooling and to halt the plans for Fauziya's cutting and marriage, but they
had refused. Her only remaining resource was her inheritance.

Her husband's family had given her $3,500, which she had planned to use to
reopen her market stall. In the Tchamba custom, she had no right to control her
husband's wealth -- nor did she even know its extent. The husband's family had
kept much if not most of the money -- the aunt and patriarch said they did not
remember the amount -- for themselves and the care of Fauziya and her younger
brother, Babs.

Fearing for her daughter's life, Mrs. Kassindja decided to give Fauziya $3,000
of her inheritance to run away. She journeyed to Lome, the scruffy, provincial
capital of Togo, to enlist the help of her eldest daughter, Ayisha Muhammed,
then 31. Ayisha's husband warned his wife not to meddle, but she disobeyed him.

Fauziya's wedding day was to be Oct. 17, 1994. Mr. Ibrahim's three wives came to
visit, coaching the bride in how to care for him. Elderly women painted her feet
with henna in a marriage ritual.

Then there was a ceremony at Mr. Ibrahim's house with only men present. An imam
offered prayers. Then the groom sent a friend to take a marriage certificate to
Miss Kassindja's house for her to sign.

She refused. The aunt sent her to a storage room and told her she was to stay
there, sleeping on a mat on the floor, until a group of elder women came to cut
her.

Fauziya's sister arrived at dusk the following day. The women who were to hold
Fauziya down and cut off her genitals were already at the house, her sister
said, talking with the aunt in a room at the back.

Her sister told Fauziya that their mother wanted her to run away. The two
sisters then simply walked out the front door. They flagged down one of the
battered taxis that throng the dirt roads of Kpalime. Certain that relatives
would soon be chasing them, they told the driver to take a helter-skelter route
to the Ghanaian border, about 20 minutes away.

Fauziya had nothing but her identity card and the clothes on her back -- a blue
and gold dress given her by the groom.

The sisters crossed the border into Ghana on foot and caught another taxi to the
airport in Accra, several hours away. Once there, Ayisha found a fixer who got
Fauziya on a midnight plane to Dusseldorf, Germany, the first flight out of the
country, without a passport.

The sisters hugged each other and wept as they parted. Fauziya clutched the
money from her mother in her hand. She wrapped it in a tissue once she boarded
the plane.

Back in Kpalime, the Kassindjas were incensed. They immediately suspected Ayisha
Muhammed. The next morning, four plainclothes police officers knocked on her
door in Lome. They demanded to know where her sister had gone. She told them she
did not know.

The visit from the police led to a fierce quarrel between Ms. Muhammed and her
husband. He was furious that she had helped Fauziya run away.

She left home to stay with a relative in Kpalime and did not tell her husband
where she had gone. After two months, she returned. Her husband has since taken
a second wife.

The Arrest
A Long Trek Into Confinement

At the Dusseldorf airport, Miss Kassindja said she wandered aimlessly for a
couple of hours. She spoke English but no German, and knew no one to call. She
struck up a conversation with a friendly German woman who spoke a little
English. The woman offered her a place to stay. In return, Miss Kassindja kept
house for her.

But after two months in Germany, Miss Kassindja wanted to go to America, where
she had relatives. She bought a phony passport from a Nigerian man. On Dec. 17,
1994, she flew to the United States. Upon landing in Newark, she confessed to
immigration officials that her documents were false and asked for asylum.

Miss Kassindja, whose name was misspelled by immigration officials -- and in
subsequent news reports -- as Kasinga, was handcuffed and taken to the Esmor
detention center in Elizabeth, N.J., which was soon to become notorious for the
capricious cruelty of its guards. Miss Kassindja would tell of being shackled at
times, denied sanitary napkins and put in isolation for washing herself at dawn
before her morning prayers, breaking a rule against using showers before 6 A.M.

Meanwhile, her mother kept trying to rescue her, even from a continent away. She
contacted a nephew in the Washington area who was working night and day as a
groundskeeper and janitor to support his family in Togo.

He scraped together $500 to hire a lawyer, who handed the case to Layli Miller
Bashir, an American University law student working in his office that summer.
Ms. Miller Bashir, who had not yet taken a course in evidence, only met Miss
Kassindja on the morning of her asylum hearing, Aug. 25, 1995.

Donald V. Ferlise, an immigration judge in Philadelphia, summarily denied Miss
Kassindja's asylum claim after a hearing that day, saying her story lacked
"rationality" and "internal consistency." He said it did not make sense that she
would be forcibly cut, since her sisters had been able to avoid the practice.

The judge has since declined to discuss his ruling.

Ms. Miller Bashir then sought help from advocates for refugees. Surita Sandosham
of Equality Now, a New York-based women's human-rights group, agreed to work her
media and political contacts to bring attention to the case. And Karen Musalo, a
law professor acting as head of American University's International Human Rights
Clinic, said she handle the legal appeal.

Still -- more than a year after she arrived in the United States -- Miss
Kassindja remained behind bars, by now in prisons in York and Lehigh counties in
Pennsylvania, where she had been transferred. She said she had been tear-gassed
and beaten when male detainees took over the Esmor center in June 1995, closing
it down. She had since fallen into a deep depression. Maybe, she thought, she
should just give up and go home to Togo.

Her advocates, however, began to have some success. Equality Now mobilized
members in a letter-writing campaign directed at the United States Justice
Department. It contacted members of Congress, who signed letters requesting her
release. The case began getting some modest attention in the news media.

On April 5, the Justice Department dashed their hopes for Miss Kassindja's quick
release. That day, it filed a 36-page brief in Federal court strongly defending
her continued detention. The judge had not believed her story, the lawyers
noted, and Miss Kassindja's purchase of a bogus passport showed she was a flight
risk.

But the pressure to let her out of prison mounted after an article detailing the
sometimes harsh conditions of her confinement appeared in The New York Times on
April 15. Nine days later, 16 months after the Immigration and Naturalization
Service detained her, it reversed course and set her free, pending the
resolution of her appeal.

She appeared on the ABC news program "Nightline," as well as on CNN and CBS. She
was flooded with calls from book publishers and Hollywood producers. She was
toasted by women's refugee advocates at a swanky luncheon at the United Nations.
Gloria Steinem, the feminist icon, invited Miss Kassindja to her home.

Miss Kassindja handled the attention with a reserved dignity reminiscent of her
mother, but she soon longed for anonymity. When her lawyer, Ms. Musalo, told her
that National Public Radio wanted to do a segment for "millions of listeners,"
Miss Kassindja said, "Can I say no?"

"You can," her lawyer replied.

"O.K., no," Miss Kassindja said.

The Government
Official Admits Law Isn't Perfect

That same April, as the case began to attract public attention, the American
Embassy in Lome sent members of its staff to Kpalime to interview members of
Miss Kassindja's family and the groom. They confirmed that at the time she fled,
Miss Kassindja did have grounds to believe she would be cut against her will.

The diplomats also sent Justice Department officials the results of a new study,
by researchers at the University of Benin and financed by the United States
Agency for International Development. It found that while one in eight Togolese
women had had their genitals cut, the proportion rose to more than 8 in 10 women
among five ethnic groups, concentrated in the country's central region. The
highest prevalence of all -- 98 percent -- was among the Kassindjas' people, who
originated in the Tchamba area.

Half the mothers interviewed who had been cut said they wished their daughters
could be spared, but researchers did not talk to fathers, who typically make
such decisions.

The Embassy also contacted Suzanne Aho, who directs Togo's Office for the
Protection and Promotion of the Family. She, in turn, called Mr. Kassindja, the
patriarch. They met at her office in a small, stuccoed building in Lome. He sat
across from her broad desk, with the air-conditioner humming and the jalousie
windows closed against the heat. She tried -- unsuccessfully, she said -- to
convince him that Miss Kassindja should not be cut if she returned home.

There is no law in Togo that explicitly forbids female genital cutting, referred
to here as excision, but the Constitution does insure each individual's physical
integrity, a possible basis for the Government to protect a woman from the
practice.

"My work is to explain to the uncle that women have rights," Mrs. Aho said.
"Excision is an inhuman practice and this girl has the right to choose whether
she will be excised or not. 'You cannot force her,' I told him. He understood,
but he said it is a tradition."

Kissem Tchangai-Walla, who heads the Togolese Ministry for the Promotion of
Women and for Social Services -- and who is also Mrs. Aho's boss -- said in an
interview that her small agency could not protect women from genital cutting. It
could only try to persuade families to stop the practice.

"Excision is a problem, but not a big problem," the minister said. "The
population that practices it in Togo is not very big. So we'll continue to teach
about its dangers and we'll also prepare a law so we can sanction the women who
perform it.

"But our first priority is not excision, it is poverty."

If any part of the Government could protect Miss Kassindja, Mrs. Tchangai-Walla
said, it would be the Ministry of Justice.

The Justice Minister, Elliott Lawson, said his office would try to help, but he
said he was not sure exactly what he could do. "The law is not perfect about the
matter," he said.

He suggested that Awa Nana, president of the Togolese appellate court, would
know more about the matter.

Mrs. Awa Nana, who strongly opposes genital cutting, had never heard of Miss
Kassindja. She said she believed Togo's courts would protect a woman seeking
help.

"We know that excisions are performed, but no one has sought protection," she
said.

The Patriarch
The Constraints Of Tradition

The wives stood in the doorways of their bedrooms, peering out into the
courtyard, the slow rhythm of their days determined by their chores: pounding
cassava in large wooden mortars, knitting caps for sale, drawing water from a
well beneath the coconut tree, scrubbing clothes in washbasins, tending to their
children.

For Mouhamadou Kassindja's two Kpalime wives, Adidjatou, 25, and Salamatou, 35,
this small, dirt courtyard defines the borders of their existence. He does not
allow them to leave, even to go to market. It is he who buys the food.

Mr. Kassindja, 52, a Muslim religious leader, teacher and school inspector, had
already talked to Americans from the Embassy and to Mrs. Aho. He agreed to
discuss the tradition of genital cutting one more time, showing the way to his
austere, cement-floored living room. A dingy cloth hung in the doorway that led
back into the house. There was nothing on the walls except a clock in the shape
of a mosque.

As an electric fan stirred the stale air, Mr. Kassindja, wearing a long,
cream-colored caftan, instructed one of his wives to train it on him. He said
genital cutting was done because his forefathers had done it. Women who were not
cut would be mocked. The rite was not required by Islam, he said, but neither
did the prophet Mohammed forbid it.

"There are some girls who die after being excised, it is true," he said. "But to
me it's not the excision that caused the death."

Asked why some girls die, he spread his hands and shrugged.

And he added a bit of folklore. Girls who bleed modestly from their genital
wounds are known to be virgins, he said, while those who bleed profusely are
not.

Mr. Kassindja, who has 15 children by his four wives (two in Kpalime, one in
Lome and a fourth in Koussountou), burst out laughing when asked how many of his
offspring are female. He did not know off the top of his head. He reeled off
their names, counting on his fingers. He has, he discovered, eight girls. So far
only three have been cut and married.

His youngest wife, Adidjatou, was cut 10 years ago when she married him at age
15. Even though the agony of having her genitals sliced off with a razor blade
was far worse than the pain of childbirth, she said, she still approves the
practice. "During the ceremony, they find out if you are a virgin," she said.
"If you are a virgin, the man will pay more dowry and your family will be
honored by the husband. I was glad because I was a virgin."

But when Mr. Kassindja briefly stepped outside for midday prayers, his
18-year-old son, Moussinou, declared that he wanted to marry a woman who had not
been cut. His views, he said, have been influenced by teachers at his
French-speaking high school.

And Salamatou, the 35-year-old wife, said she would have run away, just like
Fauziya, if she had been old enough. She remembered a woman sitting on her chest
when she was a little girl as others held her legs apart while her clitoris and
genital lips were cut off.

Glancing at her husband who had come back into the room, she said she would bow
to his wishes in the excision of their plump, shiny-eyed, baby daughter, Fatima,
who was then suckling at her breast.

"I have to do what my husband says," she said. "It is not for women to give an
order. I feel what happened to my body. I remember my suffering, But I cannot
prevent it for my daughter."

Later, in her small, cell-like bedroom, she spread Fatima's pudgy thighs apart,
then made a quick scooping motion with her hand to show that all the delicate
tissue there would be cut away.

The Apology
Admonished, Then Absolved

At 8 A.M. on July 18, Mrs. Kassindja arrived at the patriarch's compound at the
agreed-upon hour to make her formal apology. Men representing her family sat on
a wooden bench facing members of the patriarch's family, ensconced in tattered
chairs.

Mrs. Kassindja sat apart in a hard wooden chair. All joy had drained from her
face, which was sunk into the palm of her hand.

She did not speak because she is a woman. Instead, a male cousin offered the
formal apology on her behalf. She sat motionless as the patriarch lectured her
emphatically before accepting the apology.

"I cannot refuse," he said. "It's finished."

Later that day, she joined Mr. Kassindja's wives in the small, closed world of
his courtyard. She washed her feet before praying to Allah. The scene seemed
peaceful.

But a few hours later, her head pounding with an unbearable headache, she asked
to be taken to Kpalime's small hospital. There, the nurse put her on an
intravenous saline drip and gave her pills to ease the pain.

This nurse, Aliou Batcha, said that in less than a year he had treated five
girls whose parents brought them in hemorrhaging and unconscious after being
cut.

"They were in shock," he said. "It's very serious. If we don't take care of them
quickly, they can die."

The Village
A Ritual Endures: 'This Is the Law'

Koussountou, where the patriarch's family originated, is north of Kpalime, off
the main, two-lane highway that runs up the center of this small country, about
an hour down a rutted, red-dirt road that leads into the heart of the Tchamba
area. It is a poor village of farmers who survive by growing corn, cassava and
yams. They live without electricity or running water in thatched mud huts and
small stuccoed houses.

Many in the generation that includes Fauziya's father and the current Kassindja
patriarch left the Tchamba area for Kpalime, a rainier, more fertile place that
boasts not one but two growing seasons.

The Kassindja patriarch was surrounded by a throng of children in rags when he
arrived in the village. The next day, he paid a call on his relatives and the
village chief.

Yacoubou Kassindja, a family elder, said all women must be cut before marriage,
forcibly if necessary. "Since our forefathers' time, this is the law," he said.

In recent years, he said, girls in Koussountou were being cut earlier, at ages 4
to 7 rather than 14 or 15. "We don't want to let them grow up before we do it
because they can run away," he said.

The village chief, Issifou Seybou, a gaunt, barefoot old man in his 80's with a
small white beard and a turbaned head, pursed his lips and sucked through his
teeth to make the distinctive hissing noise used to insult a woman who has not
had her genitals cut off.

"Our forefathers started this, so we can't banish it," he said.

He summoned Rakia Idrissou, the elderly woman who is the village exciser. The
fingernails of her gnarled hands were painted red. She said that young, weak
girls are held down by four women. Stronger ones require five women, one to sit
on their chests and one for each arm and leg.

The girls must be kept still. If they jerk suddenly, the razor blade, bought for
a few pennies in the market, can cut too deep.

The Aftermath
As Ordeal Fades, Celebrity's Glare

Just as Miss Kassindja has brought an awareness of Togo to America, so America
has begun to seep into the life of the Kassindja family. The patriarch has been
shaken by the persistent queries about a tradition he himself had never
questioned.

"Don't say I'm a bad person," he pleaded. "This practice came from my
forefathers." He said he would summon family elders to a council, where he said
he would argue that genital cutting should end so that no more girls run away.

In an interview last week, Mr. Kassindja said that 21 members of the family
gathered in Koussountou on Aug. 21 from Ghana, Benin, Nigeria and Togo. The
patriarch said he proposed that the family either give girls a choice about
whether to be cut or end the practice altogether. "If we continue doing it,
others will flee and it will spoil the Kassindja family reputation," he said.

But Fauziya's aunt, Mrs. Mamoude, strongly disagreed and accused him of plotting
with white people, he said. The family council disintegrated into a shouting
match. The village chief heard the ruckus and called the Kassindjas to his hut.

There, the chief told Mr. Kassindja that he should have consulted him first
because the tradition of genital cutting concerned the whole village, not just
one family. The chief then declared that there would be another meeting, in
October, to consider the matter.

In America, Miss Kassindja has become a hot property. In August, she signed a
$600,000 book contract with Delacorte Press, a New York publisher. She is to get
slightly more than half the money, with the rest going to her agent, a freelance
writer and Ms. Miller Bashir, who worked on her case as a law student. A movie
deal is sure to follow.

Still lonely for her family, she lives -- materially, at least -- the cushy life
of a well-to-do American student, in an apartment complex equipped with tennis
courts and a swimming pool. She is making up her interrupted high school years
at a community college in the Washington area. She plans to enter a full
four-year college next year.

She hopes her new wealth will buy not just creature comforts and her own
education, but her mother's independence. After the book advance came through
recently, and Miss Kassindja was sure the deal would not fall through, she
phoned her mother and offered to buy her a home in Kpalime and to set her up
with a fully-stocked market stall.

Her mother has not yet accepted the offer, but Miss Kassindja said, in words
that echoed those of generations of immigrants who have made it in America:

"I want her to have something she's never had before. I want her to get a big
stall with a door she can close."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 14, 1996, Saturday

CORRECTION:

An article on Wednesday about a dispute in Congress over United States support
for international population control efforts referred incorrectly to the Alan
Guttmacher Institute, a research center. It receives some of its financing from
Planned Parenthood, but since 1977 it has been independent.


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              369 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 12, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                                  (New Jersey)

NEW JERSEY DAILY BRIEFING;
A Crime-Cartel Indictment

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 127 words

DATELINE: NEWARK


Four organized crime families formed a cartel to control a multimillion-dollar
bootleg gasoline scheme that was conducted by Russian immigrants, Federal
prosecutors said yesterday. An indictment was unsealed yesterday charging three
men, including Daniel Pagano, a high-ranking member of the Genovese crime
family, with helping to run the cartel. Calling itself the Association, the
group included representatives from the Genovese, Gambino, Lucchese and Columbo
crime families and showed a level of cooperation that prosecutors described as
reminiscent of the New York organized crime Commission of the 1980's. The
Association set prices for the bootleggers, assigned territories and collected a
"mob tax" from the other gangs, according to the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              370 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 13, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Start New York on School Vouchers Path;
Immigration Excuse

SECTION: Section A;  Page 34;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 194 words


To the Editor:

"Huddled Masses in the Schools" (Op-Ed, Sept. 9), by State Senator Frank Padavan
of New York, is another example of how immigrants have become a scapegoat.

Senator Padavan would have us believe that a sudden surge in immigration
explains school overcrowding in New York City. If only Congress would curb legal
immigration or increase school funds, all problems would be solved.

But the entire nation faces a school overcrowding crisis. The surge in
school-age children was been widely reported. In addition, there is considerable
evidence that immigration is declining. Though illegal immigration is difficult
to measure, indications are that President Clinton's efforts to strengthen
border enforcement and deportation have led to a decline in that population.

Senator Padavan fails to show that the parents of immigrant children in New York
City don't pay enough taxes to support their children's education. Most studies
show that immigrants contribute much more in taxes than they receive in
benefits.

GREGORY SISKIND
Nashville, Sept. 11, 1996

The writer is a lawyer and editor of Siskind's Immigration Bulletin.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              371 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 13, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE CONGRESS;
SENATE PERSUADED BY DOLE TO SHELVE POISON GAS TREATY

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12


Just three months after he resigned from the Senate, Bob Dole reached back today
into the legislative process to kill a treaty banning the production of poison
gas and to try to derail an immigration bill that he feared President Clinton
would claim as his own.

The chemical weapons treaty was shelved until next year after Mr. Dole wrote his
successor as majority leader, Senator Trent Lott, and implicitly criticized the
pact as not providing foolproof verification and being ineffective against
nations that ignored it.

Mr. Dole's campaign aides dealt a major setback to the immigration bill, which
House Republican leaders had hoped to bring to a final vote next week, by
insisting that it include a provision they know would doom it in the Senate -- a
section that would allow states to deny public education to children who are
illegal immigrants. [Page A23.]

When he left the Senate on June 11 after 35 years in Congress, Mr. Dole said he
needed the freedom to campaign on his own and to distance himself from bills,
amendments and motions. But now, with his campaign flagging, the legislative
process he knows best is providing a welcome opportunity to score politically.

On the immigration issue, a major factor in states like Texas and California,
Christina Martin, a spokeswoman for the Dole campaign, said, "Bob Dole is
absolutely committed to real immigration reform and believes that reform should
include the Gallegly language giving states the right to decide their policy."

She was referring to Representative Elton Gallegly, a California Republican and
the author of the education provision. The provision is especially popular in
California, a major election battleground where Mr. Dole trails badly.

But he was not assured of success on this front. Many Republicans in Congress,
including some Southern Californians, want a bill passed so they can take credit
for it, even if Mr. Clinton does, too.

One longtime Dole ally argued that it was dumb politics for Mr. Dole.

"I can't believe they are doing this," said Senator Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming.
"Bob Dole is going to go to states with large numbers of illegal immigrants like
California, Texas and Illinois, and they are going to ask what did you do to
deal with this, and all he'll be able to say is 'nothing.' "

But while the political signposts were confused on immigration, there was little
resistance in the Senate to the discouraging message Mr. Dole sent on the
chemical weapons treaty, which has little hard-core support even though it was
negotiated in the Reagan and Bush Administrations.

Conservative Republicans like Senators Jesse Helms of North Carolina, who is the
chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; Jon Kyl of Arizona, and Mr.
Lott himself, have been fighting the treaty. And Mr. Dole's backing assured them
of enough votes to defeat the treaty, which would require 67 votes for approval.

President Clinton, apparently unaware of the decision to pull the treaty from
Senate consideration, said this afternoon in Rancho Cucamonga, Calif., that even
though the measure had the support of George Bush and Colin L. Powell, "bitter
partisan debate has broken out in the last few days."

Mr. Clinton urged his audience to ask the Senate "to put partisanship aside and
put America on the side of a safer world without poison gas being exposed to our
citizens or our soldiers."

After the Senate decision was clear, a Clinton campaign spokesman, James P.
Rubin, took aim at Mr. Dole, saying, "By failing to exercise leadership of the
Republican Party, Senator Dole has caused America to lose this important tool in
the fight against terrorism."

Facing defeat, the Administration went along with the decision to pull the
treaty back. But Senator Richard G. Lugar, an Indiana Republican who is a
leading supporter of the treaty, said he hoped that it would be taken up early
next year.

"The whole process was politicized in a way that would be harmful to our foreign
policy," Mr. Lugar said. "This is not a good time for the debate."

Opponents of the treaty, including Senator Helms, complained that it "would
create a false sense of security that we have actually done something to deal
with the proliferation of chemical weapons," as he wrote today in USA Today.

He said the treaty would "increase access to chemical weapons by rogue states,
it will cost taxpayers billions in new foreign aid, and in the process it will
devastate American businesses with new regulations, inspections and loss of
trade secrets."

Under the treaty, the development, production, sale, stockpiling and combat use
of poison gas would be prohibited.

After widespread use in World War I, poison gas was first prohibited by the
Geneva Protocol of 1925. Such weapons were not used in World War II but have
been recently employed by Iraq.

The treaty would require participants to eliminate all chemical weapons within
10 years. It would also create an international agency to set rules and conduct
inspections.

Critics like Senator Kyl said those inspections could be fronts for industrial
espionage, and he contended that that the treaty's rules for the exchange of
information could help some countries develop poison gas and defenses against
it.

Mr. Dole's letter to Senator Lott did not flatly oppose the treaty. But he said
it should be ratified only if it "effectively bans chemical weapons from every
point on earth."

"To achieve this goal," he said, "a treaty must be effectively verifiable and
genuinely global -- encompassing all countries that possess, or could possess,
chemical weapons."

Not even the pact's most enthusiastic supporters claim that degree of perfection
for the treaty, and so Mr. Dole's letter was the final straw, giving cover to
Republican senators who might be uncomfortable about opposing a disarmament
pact, or even seeming to vote in favor of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq or
poison gas itself.

This morning, James A. Baker 3d, the Secretary of State during much of the
negotiations, unhesitatingly recommended approval.

"The Bush Administration," Mr. Baker said, "had never expected a treaty to be
completely verifiable and had always expected there would be rogue states that
would not participate."

He told the Senate Armed Services Committee: "When you have a lot of countries
that have signed on to a treaty like that to eliminate these weapons, you have a
much stronger political mass that you can bring to the table in any form,
whatever it is, to talk about restraints and restrictions and sanctions."

Mr. Baker added, "The more countries we can get behind responsible behavior
around the world and that we can lead toward responsible behavior, the better it
is for us."


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              372 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 14, 1996, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

In Israel, Help for Ethiopian Huddled Masses

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 278 words


To the Editor:

William Safire correctly points out the devastation occurring in the Ethiopian
Israeli community because of inadequate educational opportunities (column, Sept.
9). But Ethiopian children have not been deliberately "shunted" by government
policy to "the worst schools in the poorest neighborhoods."

Most Ethiopian immigrant families are poor, live in poor neighborhoods and send
their children to underfinanced, overcrowded neighborhood schools. These schools
are disastrous for all children, but the Ethiopian youngsters fare worst because
their parents usually lack any formal education of their own with which to
enrich their children's learning opportunities.

Moreover, there are already channels through which "outsiders can participate"
in immediate corrective measures. The New York City-based North American
Conference on Ethiopian Jewry, for example, sponsors assistance programs, and
the Washington-based New Israel Fund provides grants to nonprofit organizations
in Israel.

Mr. Safire doesn't mention one of the most psychologically pressing problems
affecting Ethiopian Israelis -- the many divided families still waiting, five
years after Operation Solomon, for family members left behind in Ethiopia. Their
long-delayed immigration causes as much anguish in Israel as in Addis Ababa.

Finally, it is surely time to stop referring to, and thinking of, Ethiopian
Israelis as "black Jews." They are immigrants to Israel like any others, and
their problems are not due to skin color but to poverty, lack of education and
an enormous cultural and technological gap.

MARK C. LEVY
Santa Monica, Calif., Sept. 10, 1996

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              373 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 16, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bill Flaws

SECTION: Section A;  Page 14;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 149 words


To the Editor:

Re your Sept. 11 front-page profile of Fauziya Kassindja and her claim for
political asylum based on fear of genital mutilation: The new anti-terrorism
law, which would allow fleeing refugees to be denied entry without a hearing if
they are using false documents, would most likely have returned Ms. Kassindja to
her home country. Indeed, she had a false Nigerian passport. She was also making
a new legal claim for immigration, increasing her chance of being returned.

On Sept. 17 a Senate-House conference committee will consider additional
amendments to the immigration bill. One proposal would allow an immigration
judge to review an initial refusal to admit a refugee. Human rights advocates
urge outright repeal of the summary exclusion provision.

LENNI B. BENSON
New York, Sept. 12, 1996

The writer is an associate professor at New York Law School.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              374 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 26, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Giuliani Is Becoming 'National Spokesman' on Immigration

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;   Page 1;   Column 2;   Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1061 words


Having received widespread attention for his outspoken positions in favor of
immigration and against parts of the new Federal welfare law, Mayor Rudolph W.
Giuliani has recently found a new avocation: becoming what an aide calls the
"national spokesman" for these issues at forums around the country.

In the last few months, the Mayor has received more than 100 invitations to
speak on these topics, said his communications director, Cristyne F. Lategano.
Most have been turned down, but he has accepted at least three, including a
speech he gave earlier this month at the Georgetown University Law School in
Washington, where he announced plans to file suit against the Federal Government
over part of the welfare law.

On Monday, he will deliver the keynote address at a conference on "The New
Immigrants" at the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the
University of Minnesota in Minneapolis. Next month, he is scheduled to give a
similar speech at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard
University. (He will not receive a speaking fee for the appearances.)

The Mayor has also made several nationally televised appearances on the
subjects.

The burst of speaking trips represents an unusual departure for a mayor who
almost never leaves New York City, even for a vacation. But he has warmed to his
new-found role, which allows him to stress his distance from the right wing of
the Republican Party -- still a political anathema in the city -- while becoming
one of the party's more visible moderates.

"When he gets these invitations, what they tell us is that he's really become
the national spokesman for these issues, the leader on these issues," Ms.
Lategano said. "He views it as his responsibility to spread the word and go to
other parts of the country to tell them firsthand the devastating effects of
this anti-immigrant legislation."

Mr. Giuliani misses few opportunities to make these points at home as well,
delivering similar speeches on Tuesday to the Manhattan Institute and yesterday
to St. Francis College in Brooklyn. His remarks generally follow the same
pattern: praising the industry and innovation of immigrants while criticizing
the welfare law and other proposals that restrict benefits to legal and illegal
aliens.

On welfare, he speaks highly of almost every major provision in the welfare law
-- touting the workfare program he has built, the country's largest -- but
attacks the law as an unfinanced mandate, saying it fails to provide enough
money to cities and states.

"I'm a very big supporter of immigration because I think immigration is the
principle that has been at the core of New York City's success for 200 years,"
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday, speaking to about 200 students and others at St.
Francis, a small Catholic college in downtown Brooklyn. "It's the reason why
this city is the wealthiest city in America, the reason why this city is the
best-known city in the world. And there's the reason why this city constantly
finds ways of renewing itself."

By cutting off food stamps and other benefits for legal and illegal immigrants,
Mr. Giuliani said, the welfare law is hurting a group of people who actually
work and own businesses in greater proportion than American citizens. This week,
under orders from the state, the city began dropping some legal immigrants from
the food stamps program, citing the new law.

"The Federal Government is saying, 'Come in, we'll take your tax dollars, but
then if you get in trouble, and the job you thought you had, you lose, or you
get sick, we're not going to give you anything,' " he said. "You, however, just
stay here, and what's the city and the state of New York going to have to do
about it? They're going to have to pay for it."

On Tuesday, speaking to members of the Manhattan Institute at the staid Union
League Club, Mr. Giuliani, in response to a question from the audience, made a
joke about the English-speaking deficiencies of New York City taxicab drivers
but then quickly launched into his defense of immigrants. "I am the biggest
supporter of immigrants left in the United States of America," he told the
crowd, which did not applaud that particular part of his remarks.

Those who have invited Mr. Giuliani to speak say they find it remarkable that a
Republican mayor is making such a strong case in favor of further immigration,
particularly when the opposite sentiment is so frequently heard in party
circles.

"We thought at a time in which people were kind of skeptical about immigration,
we wanted to hear from someone who was going to speak enthusiastically about the
contributions of people from all over the world to America," said Robert Kudrle,
professor of public affairs at the Humphrey Institute and one of the organizers
of next week's conference, which coincides with the Year of the Swedish
Immigrant celebration at the university. "Mr. Giuliani has been celebrating
immigration, and I guess it makes sense for a mayor of New York to do that."

Frank J. Macchiarola, president of St. Francis College, said that as a "good
Democrat," he would not normally be a political supporter of Mayor Giuliani. But
he said Mr. Giuliani's positions resonated well with his student body of 2,000,
which is 20 percent foreign born.

"Let's give credit here where it's due," said Mr. Macchiarola, a former city
schools chancellor. "In large measure, he has been outstanding in that regard,
and it demonstrates a real understanding of what this city is all about."

On his radio programs and at his "town meetings," the Mayor has often received
questions that are critical of immigrants, and he has wondered aloud whether his
position represents "political suicide" locally. But having fallen from grace
with the national Republican Party for endorsing former Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a
Democrat, in 1994 and failing to endorse Bob Dole, a fellow Republican, so far
this year for President, Mr. Giuliani has suddenly found a new doorway onto the
national stage.

"He's the Mayor of a large city that serves as the economic engine of the
country," said Ms. Lategano, denying that any political calculation was
involved. "When he sees the value and importance of an issue like this, he
believes it's going to benefit not only New York City but the entire country if
there's an understanding of that issue."


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              375 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 29, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Votes in Congress

SECTION: Section 1;    Page 44;    Column 1;    Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 511 words


Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York

Senate

1. Merchant Marine: Vote on a bill providing $1 billion in subsidies over 10
years for the nation's private merchant marine fleet. Approved 88 to 10, Sept.
24.

2. Abortion: Vote to override President Clinton's veto of the ban on a late-term
abortion procedure that opponents call partial-birth abortion. Failed, with 57
in favor and 41 opposed (short of the two-thirds needed), Sept. 26.

                                 1         2
Connecticut
Dodd (D)                       Yea       Nay
Lieberman (D)                  Yea       Nay

New Jersey
Bradley (D)                    Yea       Nay
Lautenberg (D)                 Yea       Nay

New York
D'Amato (R)                    Yea       Yea
Moynihan (D)                   Yea       Yea


House

1. Childbirth and Mental Illness: Vote on an $84.7 billion compromise spending
bill for veterans and housing programs that includes a provision requiring
health plans to pay for hospital stays of at least 48 hours after childbirth and
a provision requiring health plans to treat mental illness coverage on a par
with physical illness. Approved 388 to 25, Sept. 24.

2. Immigration: Vote on a compromise bill that would crack down on illegal
immigration. Approved 305 to 123, Sept. 25.

3. Schools: Vote on a bill that would allow states to deny a public education to
any illegal immigrant children who are not enrolled in schools by next July.
Approved 254 to 175, Sept. 25.

                                 1         2         3
Connecticut
1. Kennelly (D)                Yea       Nay       Nay
2. Gejdenson (D)               Yea       Nay       Nay
3. DeLauro (D)                 Yea       Nay       Nay
4. Shays (R)                   Yea       Yea       Yea
5. Franks (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
6. Johnson (R)                 Yea       Yea       Nay

New Jersey
1. Andrews (D)                 Yea       Yea       Nay
2. LoBiondo (R)                Yea       Yea       Yea
3. Saxton (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
4. Smith (R)                   Yea       Yea       Yea
5. Roukema (R)                 Yea       Yea       Yea
6. Pallone (D)                 Yea       Yea       Nay
7. Franks (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
8. Martini (R)                 Yea       Yea       Yea
9. Torricelli (D)              Yea       Yea       Yea
10. Payne (D)                  Yea       Nay       Nay
11. Frelinghuysen (R)          Yea       Yea       Yea
12. Zimmer (R)                 Yea       Yea       Yea
13. Menendez (D)               Yea       Nay       Nay

New York
1. Forbes (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
2. Lazio (R)                   Yea       Yea       Yea
3. King (R)                    Yea       Nay       Yea
4. Frisa (R)                   Yea       Yea       Yea
5. Ackerman (D)                Yea       Nay       Nay
6. Flake (D)                   Yea       Nay       Nay
7. Manton (D)                  Yea       Yea       Nay
8. Nadler (D)                  Yea       Nay       Nay
9. Schumer (D)                 Yea       Nay       Nay
10. Towns (D)                  Yea       Nay       Nay
11. Owens (D)                  Yea       Nay       Nay
12. Velazquez (D)              Yea       Nay       Nay
13. Molinari (R)               Yea       Yea       Nay
14. Maloney (D)                Yea       Nay       Nay
15. Rangel (D)                   A       Nay       Nay
16. Serrano (D)                Yea       Nay       Nay
17. Engel (D)                  Yea       Nay       Nay
18. Lowey (D)                  Yea       Nay       Nay
19. Kelly (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
20. Gilman (R)                 Yea       Yea       Nay
21. McNulty (D)                Yea       Nay       Nay
22. Solomon (R)                Yea       Yea       Yea
23. Boehlert (R)               Yea       Yea       Yea
24. McHugh (R)                 Yea       Yea       Yea
25. Walsh (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
26. Hinchey (D)                Yea       Yea       Nay
27. Paxon (R)                  Yea       Yea       Yea
28. Slaughter (D)              Yea       Yea       Nay
29. LaFalce (D)                Yea       Nay       Nay
30. Quinn (R)                  Yea       Yea       Nay
31. Houghton (R)               Yea       Yea       Yea


KEY: (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              376 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 30, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' New Road Leads to Suburbia;
Away From the Big City, Seeking a Better Life but Facing New Tensions

BYLINE: By MIRTA OJITO

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2308 words

DATELINE: HAVERSTRAW, N.Y.


One balmy winter night long ago, Jose de la Cruz, a poor man from the Dominican
Republic, met and fell in love with a pretty young woman from New York who was
vacationing in his hometown.

She was from the village of Haverstraw, a place that he had never heard of but
that sounded promising if hard to pronounce and even harder to envision. And so
Mr. de la Cruz, then 20, packed his bags and followed Maria Henriquez to this
tiny old village by the Hudson.

And so did the rest of his family. And most of his family's families, setting in
motion an immigration chain that has yet to reach its last link. In the 26 years
since love struck Mr. de la Cruz and Miss Henriquez (Mr. de la Cruz calls it
love at first sight), nearly 50 de la Cruz or de la Cruz-related family members
have settled here or in surrounding towns.

They own a grocery store and a restaurant. They work as welders or therapists.
One hopes to work for NASA. Another is a pilot. Several do not know what they
want yet; they are still in high school or in diapers.

And thus, experts say, is the history of American suburbs written these days.

The suburbs, long the refuge of fleeing city dwellers, are quietly becoming a
magnet to newly arrived immigrants, who, lured by relatives and the promise of a
better life, are bypassing the city and driving to the proverbial American dream
straight from the nation's biggest international airports.

The trend, entrenched everywhere there is a significant immigrant population, is
transforming the character of many suburbs, sociologists and demographers say.
It is making suburbia more heterogeneous and interesting. But, like never
before, it is also pressing onto unprepared suburban towns the travails and
turmoil of the cities.

The recent phenomenon is possible, in part, because of some changes that had
already begun in suburbia.

No longer exclusively white and affluent, suburbia has changed over time,
especially since the 1970's, and is now also black and Hispanic, poor and
crowded, besieged by unemployment and drugs, dotted by housing projects or
rundown apartment buildings. In short, affordable and therefore attractive to
poor immigrants looking for a place to live and work, where English is not a
must and where they are likely to find people like themselves.

A place, in many ways, like Haverstraw.

"I bet Haverstraw is better known in the islands than in New York City," said
Francis (Bud) Wassmer, Mayor of Haverstraw, referring to the Caribbean.

According to the 1990 Census, 51 percent of the village's people are Hispanic,
and town officials and civic advocates said the number is closer to 70 percent
now because of growth since 1990 and undercounting in that census.

Just 30 miles north of Manhattan, this 2.5-square-mile village first became home
to a significant Hispanic population in the 1940's, when businessmen in the area
sought workers in Puerto Rico for their factories and beet fields, a common
practice in those days. To entice them to move, they took pictures and films of
Haverstraw to Puerto Rico's decimated countryside and later offered bonuses to
employees who procured more workers from the island.


Word of Haverstraw Goes Island to Island

Puerto Ricans settled in the downtown area, where inexpensive housing was
available, and blended in. Their children went to school, got jobs and left.
Eventually, the parents left, too. But word of Haverstraw hopped from one
Caribbean island to another, and soon Dominicans took over the jobs and houses
that Puerto Ricans had abandoned.

Slowly, this formerly Italian-Irish-German village -- the world's brick-making
capital, as the old-timers like to boast -- became so Dominican that former
neighbors in some of the island's hidden little towns have encountered each
other here, on the streets of Haverstraw.

Now the library, which is almost 100 years old, stocks an extensive selection of
bilingual books and the local middle school has five bilingual teachers. Old
businesses -- a candy store and one of the country's oldest family-owned
bakeries -- have closed down, while 18 bodegas have opened. Stores like the
Village Shoppe, owned by Henry Aaron for more than 40 years, no longer sell
men's suits; instead, they sell children's outfits and sturdy work boots.

The quaint Village Coffee Shop sells rice and beans, each dish served by
Margarita Acevedo, who 11 years ago was a homemaker in Santo Domingo. A few
blocks from her place, abandoned quasi-Victorian mansions for sale dot a
riverfront so pretty and unspoiled that in many other places buyers would be
snatching them up for $500,000 each. Here, they sell for $200,000, sometimes
less.

The strains of merengue spill from the dilapidated pink windows of a Victorian
mansion. Children yell in Spanish in the streets and men kick a soccer ball in
their front yards. A girl braids the hair of her sister on the freshly painted
steps of a stately house with white pillars.

It is precisely this Latin character that makes the village so attractive to
newcomers. It is also, some say, the reason why many other non-Hispanic people
stay away.

"People around here have marked Haverstraw as an evil town, a ghost town," said
the Rev. Antonio R. Welty, the Colombia-born pastor of the village's Central
Presbyterian Church. "They can't see anything good coming out of this village.
'How good can it be if it's full of Latinos?' they ask themselves. So they stay
away and don't invest here, which is a shame."

The Mayor is trying to change that. He wants people to realize the village's
potential. He wants a ferry and a passenger train, which the town had but lost
years ago, as well as a developed waterfront and shopping centers.


Hispanic Population: The Mayor's View

Yet he also perceives the Hispanic population mostly as a problem.

"Garbage," Mr. Wassmer said when asked the biggest challenge immigrants posed to
the village. "They produce a lot of heavy garbage. I mean, rice and beans are
heavy, you know."

Mr. Wassmer also said Hispanic immigrants crowded the streets. That is a
problem, he said, because police officers, who he said make an average of
$70,000 a year here, must spend considerable time and effort to "keep them off
the streets as much as it's legally possible."

The Mayor, Hispanic leaders here said, just does not understand.

Mr. Wassmer, who will turn 50 in two months and was born and raised in the
village, wants the town of his childhood back. During a leisurely walk around
the village, he wistfully pointed to all the places he remembered from earlier
years that are no longer there. Bodegas and other businesses have taken their
place.

At the same time, Hispanic leaders, who grew up here, work to make sure that old
times never come back. They want affordable housing for poor people; they want
not just bilingual but bicultural police officers who understand that people
hang out in the streets not necessarily because they want to but because their
apartments are crowded and hot. They want programs to keep idle adolescents
occupied during the hot summer months. And, more than anything else, they want
recognition.

"It's almost as if we don't exist," said Ronaldo L. Figueroa, 42, a Rockland
County drug-abuse specialist who heads the local Hispanic Coalition, an advocacy
group. "We are here, we are the majority, but they don't see us."

Their invisibility is partly a function of their lack of political power and,
more important, of interest in the political process. Haverstraw has never had a
Hispanic mayor. The first who tried, Angelo Cintron, a businessman, lost by 140
votes of the almost 4,000 cast last year. Hispanic voters, who represent half of
the total, did not vote for him heavily.

"We don't take ownership of where we live," said Edna I. Rivera, who runs
Housing Opportunities for Growth, Advancement and Rehabilitation, or Hogar, a
community economic development agency that finds jobs and builds affordable
housing. "We have this mentality that one day we are just going to click our
heels and go home."

That is beginning to change. Mr. Cintron, a village trustee since 1992, said he
will run for mayor again. He plans to rent a voting machine to teach new
Hispanic voters how to vote. Another Hispanic trustee was elected last year. And
Ms. Rivera was a national delegate to the Democratic Convention last month.

There are two Spanish-language newspapers in the village, and Hispanic leaders
frequently organize voter registration drives, especially now that new
anti-immigration laws force local governments to deny benefits to noncitizens.

The incipient political awareness of Haverstraw's Hispanic population is a sign
of how suburbs will be politically shaped by new immigrants, said John R. Logan,
who along with Richard D. Alba, both sociology professors at the State
University of New York at Albany, is researching how members of minority groups
live in the suburbs of New York, Chicago, Miami, San Francisco and Los Angeles.

So far, the professors have found, all five regions follow the same pattern: new
immigrants tend to move to suburbs that are a little rundown, less affluent than
average and already have a smaller proportion of non-Hispanic whites than in the
richer suburbs.

"If the suburbs come not to mean the land of Republicans and instead become
places where the same Congressman represents a rich white American and a poor
immigrant from, say, Haverstraw, it would force politicians to take a more
practical approach in recognizing problems and mobilizing to act," said
Professor Logan, who this year is a visiting scholar at the Russell Sage
Foundation in Manhattan.

Meanwhile, he said, there are more pressing issues for current leaders.

"The question is, how are they going to meet the needs of these new immigrants
in a suburban environment?" Professor Logan said. "This is very new for suburbia
and it poses a challenge to public institutions."


Bumpy Transition To Life in America

New immigrants, unlike immigrants who have lived in the country for a while,
have special needs. They are likely not to speak English. They need jobs, help
in finding affordable homes, guidance to enroll their children in schools and
information on how to establish credit and even open a checking account. They
may also need public assistance to make ends meet until they find jobs. And they
need it all in their own language.

Cities, where immigrants traditionally settled, have the services and the
expertise to help new immigrants make a smoother transition to life in America.
Places like the village of Haverstraw are not always fully equipped to deal with
the needs of new immigrants. "We have social problems just like urban
communities," Mr. Figueroa said, "but we don't have the resources to address
them in the same way, so they tend to accelerate at a greater pace than we can
keep up with."

In the village, immigrants are aided by a loose network of hometown leaders,
people like Mr. Figueroa, Ms. Rivera and Mr. Cintron, who speak their language
and have the cultural sensibility to understand their needs. They also receive
guidance and counseling from a Rockland County social service office that is
based in the village and employs five bilingual employees.

There is a health clinic that offers free medical care, and transportation is
available for a mental health clinic in Pomona a few miles away. Drug and
alcohol counseling is available in a village-operated but state-financed office
that is run out of a Village Hall office and employs no bilingual, bicultural
counselors.

Hispanic leaders think it is not enough. "It's a Band-Aid approach," Ms. Rivera
said.

Schools are also having a difficult time. Seventy percent of the children in the
local elementary school are from Latin America. Each year, there are too many
new children who do not speak English and sometimes come from places where there
are no schools and so their level of comprehension is much lower than it should
be for their ages.

The village's main problem, though, is housing. Almost all new immigrants are
working class. Many are poor. They are living in apartments carved out of
19th-century mansions that were meant for four people and now house 30.

More than 60 percent of the available housing is more than 70 years old and in
need of repair. Absentee landlords are rampant.

"By my standards, they are having a terrible time," said Mr. Cintron, a Puerto
Rican raised in the Bronx who has lived here for more than two decades. "By
theirs, they are probably doing pretty good, considering how poor they are and
the kinds of places they come from."

Mr. Wassmer said new immigrants were a "tremendous burden" on the village's
already stretched services, such as police, fire and garbage collection. "People
at poverty level or below require more services than others, and we just don't
have the means or the organization to do it all," Mr. Wassmer said.

Despite the sometimes harsh living conditions, Haverstraw remains a place where
new dreams are forged every day.

Carmen Luisa Collado, 19, is the most recent addition to the de la Cruz extended
family. Her grandfather is the uncle of Jose Guzman, who is married to Mercedes,
who is one of Jose de la Cruz's 16 siblings.

Ms. Collado, who was an accounting student in the Dominican Republic, arrived
two months ago and lives in a small apartment in Main Street with her parents
and a younger sister. She works wrapping packages for a mailing service and
already has big plans for the future.

She wants to study English. In January, she will enroll at a local college to
finish her degree and get a better job. Soon after that, she wants to return
home to marry her boyfriend of two years. Then, she intends to help him get a
visa.

And the two, she hopes, will settle in the village of Haverstraw.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Latin character of Haverstraw, visible on the streets and
fields, lower left, of the tiny old village by the Hudson River, has long been
an attraction for newcomers. It is also, some say, the reason why many other
non-Hispanic people stay away; Carmen Luisa Collado, from the Dominican
Republic, said she hopes to join relatives in making the village her home. Mayor
Francis (Bud) Wassmer, below, who was born and raised in the village, wants the
town of his childhood back. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
(pg. B1)

Chart: "AT A GLANCE: Haverstraw, N.Y." provides demographical information on the
village of Haverstraw. (Source: 1990 Census, HOGAR) (pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              377 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Excerpt From Address on Immigration

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 328 words


Following is an excerpt from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's address to a conference
on immigration at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis yesterday, as
transcribed by The New York Times.

Immigrants are exactly what America needs. They're what we need economically,
and I think they're what we need morally -- because we're a country that doubts
itself right now.

There's nothing better than having a lot of people show up that understand why
you should be here, better than we do. Really. The thing that revitalizes
America and gets it back to its sense of confidence again -- I mean, to have
somebody come here and explain to you why they came to America might be the very
reason why large groups of people kind of wake up and realize how lucky they are
to be here, and how much there is to offer, and how the opportunities are there.
And sometimes, it's just the change in attitude that is necessary to see how to
use that opportunity.

All of these immigrants that come here help us with the work they do, they
challenge us with new ideas and new perspectives, and they give us perspective,
which is what I'm talking about. This is still the nation that more people
around the world want to come to than any place else in the world.

That has to tell us something about ourselves, very, very deep in our soul. If
around the world this is the place people want to come to so much, maybe there's
more here than many of us realize, and that many of us can take advantage of.

And I believe we need to be reminded of that. We need to be reminded of that so
that we don't take what we have for granted.

The anti-immigration movement that's now sweeping the country in my view is no
different than the movements that swept the country in the past. You look back
at the Chinese Exclusionary Act, or the Know-Nothing movement -- these were
movements that encouraged Americans to fear foreigners, to fear something that's
different, and to stop immigration.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              378 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 3, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;  Page 2;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 54 words


An article on Tuesday about the financier George Soros's pledge of $50 million
to help legal immigrants in the United States referred incorrectly to his
humanitarian assistance in Bosnia. He offered $50 million in aid in December
1992, suspended it in May 1993 in protest over Western inaction and resumed it
in July 1993.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              379 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 3, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Spur to Immigrants

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 95 words


To the Editor:

When the Mayor of Haverstraw, N.Y., is comfortable enough to say that one of the
main problems with Dominican immigrants is that "They produce a lot of heavy
garbage. I mean, rice and beans are heavy, you know" (news article, Sept. 30),
let no one be mistaken that anti-immigrant sentiments, and more specifically
anti-Latino sentiments, have been buoyed by the recent welfare and immigration
laws. Such racist comments should provide further motivation to immigrants to
naturalize, register and vote.

SANDRA MULLIN
Brooklyn, Sept. 30, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              380 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Come to America Looking for a Handout

SECTION: Section A;  Page 32;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 203 words


To the Editor:

Re "Immigrants' Burden" (Op-Ed, Oct. 2): George Soros may have had his broken
leg set for free in England after World War II, but had he been treated in the
United States -- where he eventually made his millions -- he would have had to
borrow money from a friend or perhaps a local Hungarian-American group to pay
the bill, or work it off.

The point that seems to elude him and other liberals is that we cannot have it
both ways in this country. We cannot be an entrepreneurial, dynamic nation of
risk-takers and at the same time expect our government to pick up the pieces
every time we stumble or fail. There was a time when immigrants came to this
country with expectations of freedom and opportunity, and that was all. Now too
many come with the promise of a government handout.

No one denies that immigrants occasionally need a helping hand, but let it come
first from friends, family and religious and civic organizations and then, only
as a last resort, from the government.

The first thing an immigrant should read after arriving on these shores is the
help-wanted section of the newspaper, not an application for food stamps.

WILSON GRABILL
Princeton, N.J., Oct. 2, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              381 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Honoring the Immigrants

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the "Welcoming Hands," a series of bronzes by Louise
Bourgeois that is intended to complement the Statue of Liberty, was unveiled
yesterday at Robert F. Wagner Jr. Park in Battery Park City. Ms. Bourgeois, who
was born in 1911, emigrated from France in 1938. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York
Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              382 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Come to America Looking for a Handout;
Immigrant Loans

SECTION: Section A;  Page 32;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 84 words


To the Editor:

George Soros (Op-Ed, Oct. 2) makes a bold case for dignifying the plight of
legal immigrants by setting up the Emma Lazarus Fund. Is he willing to fulfill
his own pledge of allegiance by endorsing, in the spirit of capitalism, the
concept of an interstate "co-op" bank? What we legal immigrants need in the
short run is a welfare-size cash grant that accrues interest much like the
student loan of a typical American college graduate.

ALEX PEDRAM
Ithaca, N.Y., Oct. 3, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              383 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 9, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

No Anti-Hispanic Bias

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 151 words


To the Editor:

Your Sept. 30 news article on immigrants in the Village of Haverstraw, N.Y.,
does not accurately reflect my feelings or attitude toward the Hispanic
community. It is detrimental to all I have tried to accomplish in the last few
months.

I have lived my entire life in the village, raising my family and conducting my
business here. I have always considered all residents to be my friends. Over the
years I have employed Hispanics, found them places to live and worked with them
side by side. Since becoming Mayor in 1995, I have appointed more Hispanics to
village boards, such as the Youth Board and Waterfront Action Committee, than
any other administration.

Even though the salary is part time at $10,500 per year, I am always available
and have worked full time for the welfare of all residents.

FRANCIS J. WASSMER JR.
Haverstraw, N.Y., Oct. 1, 1996

Mayor

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              384 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 11, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

A Mayor Asks Help On Illegal Tenancies

BYLINE: By The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 6;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: FREEPORT, L.I., Oct. 10


Faced with more than 1,000 illegally occupied homes in his village and a fire in
an overcrowded single-family home last weekend that injured more than 14
tenants, Mayor Richard R. Wissler has asked for help from local prosecutors.

The fire occurred on Saturday at 3 A.M. at 39 Porterfield Place, in a
60-year-old wooden house where more than 22 people, many of them Central
American immigrants, were crammed into makeshift cubicles of plywood and
cardboard on all floors from the basement to the third-floor attic, Mayor
Wissler said.

A similar fire on Aug. 23 severely damaged another one-family home crowded with
illegal tenants, a few blocks away at 37 Russell Place. No one was seriously
injured.

Michael Solomon, the village attorney, said letters had been sent to the Nassau
County District Attorney, Denis Dillon, urging him to bring charges against
Rafael Nunez, the owner of 39 Porterfield Place, and Mario Bertram, the owner of
37 Russell Place.

Mayor Wissler said that landlords of illegal apartments were charging $250 to
$500 a month per room. "It's an unscrupulous practice driven by nothing more
than greed," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              385 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Housing Crisis Imperils Quality of Life for All;
Not Criminal Behavior

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 12;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 123 words


To the Editor:

I would like to express my appreciation for your Oct. 9 front-page article on
the young immigrant family from Mexico. As an attorney representing Mexican
immigrants, I have been greatly disappointed by the lack of understanding as to
why undocumented Mexican immigrants come to the United States. For many, it is
as if immigrants are seeking a life of crime because they enter the country
illegally.

Your article is a reminder that this is a choice driven by the desire to improve
one's economic circumstances, made with great sacrifice and often resulting in
isolation from one's family, culture and basic support system. It is not
criminal behavior.

LINDA FRIEDMAN RAMIREZ
Portland, Ore., Oct. 10, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              386 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Housing Crisis Imperils Quality of Life for All;
Uttering the R-Word

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 12;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 244 words


To the Editor:

Your front-page series focusing on problems immigrants find in New York, with
poor housing, inadequate English and little future, recalls a similar challenge
I had as a boy.

I was raised in the Depression, went to a one-room school, worked weekends and
summers in high school and went to college on a scholarship. I met and married
the girl who's still my wife weeks before going overseas in the war they asked
me to attend. I got home intact and we went to New York and a two-room
cold-water walkup in Hell's Kitchen. We scraped by as models (nude in my case at
the Art Students League, $1.75 an hour) till we began to get acting work. Our
food budget was $7 a week, mostly macaroni and salami.

Of course we never considered having children until both of us had earned enough
future in film and stage to make parenthood possible.

You write eloquently about the sorry plight of the families you detail, but
seldom concede that many of them are in fact illegal. Does that word no longer
have any meaning in our decaying culture?

An even more important word not yet included in any of your articles is
"responsibility." Does that count for nothing? How could any couple plan to
sneak into the country with several innocent children and no education and
expect to thrive, or even survive here? Surely they are better off legally
deported back to a culture they can at least understand.

CHARLTON HESTON
Los Angeles, Oct. 9, 1996

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              387 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 13, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

IN PERSON;
Lifted Lamp, Golden Door, Changing Rules

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

SECTION: Section 13NJ;  Page 4;  Column 1;  New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1564 words


THEY start with a dream of seeing families -- usually their own -- reunited in
America. They work extra jobs here, abandoning leisure time to save money. They
sign one petition after another, promising to make even more sacrifices on
behalf of loved ones. They wait and they wait, sometimes for a decade or more,
until their turn comes.

They are the sponsors of immigrants to America, and their role, once informal,
has grown ever more important in recent years. Now it is likely to grow still
more as Federal welfare and immigration laws place new responsibilities on
immigrants' sponsors. And many wonder how they will manage.

"I don't see our future," said Inna Vayer of Millburn, who with her husband,
Lenny, has relied on several Government programs to help care for elderly
parents. "I don't know how I'll be able to take care of them anymore."

In the great tides of immigration in the 19th and early 20th centuries,
immigrants needed to show only that they were healthy and not paupers. Gradually
the rules changed, and more immigrants had to have sponsors -- usually family
members, sometimes an employers -- to promise to support them until they gained
citizenship. Now, almost two-thirds of all immigrants are sponsored by family
members.

In few places have sponsors been more vital than in New Jersey, where
foreign-born residents now number more than one million, an eighth of the
population, and are steadily increasing. Only four states had more
family-sponsored immigrants than New Jersey's 27,106 in 1995, according to the
Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service. Four of New Jersey's
metropolitan areas (Newark, the Philadelphia suburbs, Bergen-Passaic and Jersey
City) rank in the top 25 in the nation in numbers of family-sponsored
immigrants.

Now all these numbers, and the stories behind them, are likely to be affected by
the new welfare and immigration laws. Under the old laws, sponsors of legal
immigrants had to sign an affidavit of support and demonstrate that their income
was above the Federal poverty level. If the immigrant became disabled or
otherwise unable to support himself, Government programs like Medicaid and Aid
to Families With Dependent Children would be available. (Even illegal immigrants
have benefited from such programs.)

Under the new laws, potential sponsors must earn at least 125 percent of the
poverty level, or at least $21,788 for a family of four. Until the immigrants
become citizens, they will be ineligible for most public assistance, including
Supplemental Security Income, food stamps and Medicaid, meaning they may be
forced to rely on their sponsors for food, shelter and health care.

Finally, sponsors will be required to repay the Government for any public
assistance immigrants receive until they become citizens or until they have
worked at least 10 years. The new requirements, passed in the session of
Congress that just ended, have not yet taken effect in most states; New Jersey
is still working out details on how it will comply.

"What they're trying to do is hold the sponsors to the promises they're making,"
said Josh Bernstein, a policy analyst in the Washington office of the National
Immigration Law Center, a nonprofit advocacy group. "That's reasonable. The
problem is when you make this an unlimited type of obligation. It's not fair to
hold the sponsor for every eventuality, every circumstance. That's why we have a
social safety net."

For now, the prospective changes have given sponsors reason to reflect on how
their lives will be affected. Some say they could not have become sponsors in
the first place if the new financial requirements had been in effect; others say
the obligations would have made them think twice. Here are three sponsors's
stories.

INNA VAYER
Suddenly, No Safety Net

Seventeen years ago, Inna Vayer came to New Jersey as a religious refugee from
Ukraine in what was then the Soviet Union, accompanied by her husband and their
daughter, Regina. With help from Jewish Family Service of Metrowest in East
Orange, the Vayers landed on their feet: he found work as a subcontractor, she
as an assistant comptroller at a management concern. They bought a rundown house
in Millburn and fixed it up. They sent Regina to Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Established in America, they agreed to sponsor their parents as immigrants.

But shortly after their parents arrived in the early 1990's, they developed
health problems. Mr. Vayer's father died three years ago; his mother is diabetic
and now legally blind; Mrs. Vayer's mother is in a nursing home, paralyzed,
after a stroke and a heart attack, and her father has arthritis so severe he can
barely walk.

It was not easy. But at least the Vayers' parents could rely on Supplemental
Security Income, the Federal program for elderly or disabled people who are
indigent. Under the new laws, however, the parents, who have been too ill to
take a citizenship test, will be ineligible for assistance. Mrs. Vayer says the
burden is likely to fall entirely on her and her husband, and she adds that they
can ill afford it.

"It's devastating," said Mrs. Vayer, 46, anxiety heavy in her voice. "I have
mortgage payments, I have to support my daughter, and now my parents become my
children and I don't know how I will be able to support them. Does this mean I
have to sell everything I own?"

Before the new laws were enacted, Mrs. Vayer had considered sponsoring a cousin
who still lives in Ukraine. Not anymore.

"For so many years, I feel it's my country," she said. "But I don't know how my
country can get so angry with my parents. If I knew the Government would change
the rules, I don't know if we even would have sponsored them in the first place.
I feel like I've been punished."

DHARAM KAUR KHALSA
A Widow's Life Savings

Dharam Kaur Khalsa, 67, is a Sikh who grew up in Manhattan and Long Island. For
two decades she has helped immigrant families, most recently as a member of the
Paramus-based religious organization Akh and Kirtani Jatha. (The name is Punjabi
for "continuous praises of God.") She is so devoted to the cause that she
sponsored two Indian families not even related to her.

As part of her affidavit of support, Mrs. Khalsa promised the Government that
she would set aside as much money as she could to help the families. She turned
over $40,000 to the first family in 1986 and $15,000 to the second in 1992 --
all told, most of her life's savings.

Today, both families are doing well. One father runs an engine repair business;
the other is a telecommunications engineer. Mrs. Khalsa, a widow who retired
years ago as an administrator at the University of California, lives with one of
the families in Paramus; they treat her like a grandmother.

For three years, Mrs. Khalsa has been trying to sponsor another young Sikh
woman, a relative of one of the families. She is even selling her house in
California to comply with the financial requirements. Now, with the new laws,
she is worried not just about her own application, but about those of others.
Thank goodness, she says, that she was able to sponsor the two families before
the changes.

"I am not going to go beyond this case," she said. "I think it's going to cut
the ability to find sponsors down to nothing. That makes you feel bad because
there are a lot of people in this world who need help and will do a lot for the
community."

REINA RAMIREZ
'You Can't Get Pregnant'

Reina Ramirez, 33, came to New Jersey in 1978 from El Salvador, having been
sponsored by her mother. She married Nelson Ramirez, also from El Salvador. Mr.
Ramirez sponsored his mother. Then he sponsored his sister, who became a
permanent resident just two weeks ago.

Early on, thanks to child-care subsidies, Mrs. Ramirez went back to school,
eventually landing a job as a paralegal at a Newark law firm. Mr. Ramirez found
work as a machinist, and the two bought a house in Fair Lawn in 1986. They are
now saving so their children, Irene, 13, and Nelson Jr., 8, can go to college.

But there is a new wrinkle. Although Mr. Ramirez's sister, Ana, in Prospect
Park, has a steady job as a customer representative in a financial services
company, and although the Ramirezes earn enough money to qualify as sponsors,
they are worried about their obligations in the future.

"So we were saying to her, 'You can't get pregnant, all right?' " Mrs. Ramirez
said with a smile. (Legal immigrants will no longer qualify for
Government-sponsored prenatal care.) "And then we were thinking, what if we need
help someday? You never know: you can lose your job; you can get a terminal
illness; you can get divorced."

It is enough to deter them from sponsoring other relatives, she said, and to
conclude that had these laws been in effect years ago, they probably would not
have been sponsors.

"I understand the need to cut down on abuses of the system," she said. "But if
there is a legitimate need, the benefits should be available to those who are
paying their taxes. It's unfair. It's like setting a double standard: we live by
one, but when it comes to assistance, we have to live by another, higher
standard for my sister-in-law."

Still, Mrs. Ramirez holds out hope, much as she did when she and her husband
first struggled. "We're very resilient, and we'll rise to the challenge," she
said, "just like the immigrants before us."

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sikhs are such a close-knit community that some sponsor
immigrants who are not even their relatives. "There are a lot of people in this
world who need help," said one sponsor, Dharam Kaur Khalsa. Above, prayers at
the Gurudwara Temple in Glen Rock. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times);
Reina Ramirez says new laws impose a double standard on immigrants and sponsors.
(Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              388 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 14, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A;    Page 2;    Column 5;    Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 51 words


A chart on Sept. 30 with an article about the immigrant population of
Haverstraw, N.Y., misstated the prevalence of low-income households in the
village. While many households have incomes below $20,000, they are not a
majority; according to the 1990 Census, the median income in the village is
$33,736.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              389 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 15, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Moscow Sends Homeless To Faraway Hometowns

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1635 words

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 14


Behind the iron gate, in a squat red-brick building with barred windows, Viktor
Ryazanov sits imprisoned in Social Rehabilitation Center No. 2.

He is allowed to shower once every 10 days. At night, his toilet is a chipped
ceramic pot shared with nine other men. For nearly a month, he has been locked
in a dingy cell. And soon Mr. Ryazanov, a 47-year-old Russian laborer, will be
deported from this city against his will.

He is not a criminal. He is a homeless man.

In a measure condemned by human rights advocates and applauded by local
citizens, this city has begun to deport thousands of homeless people, rousting
them from railway stations and vegetable markets, detaining them for up to 30
days without charge and loading them onto trains to distant villages where they
grew up or were last registered as permanent residents.

President Boris N. Yeltsin and Mayor Yuri M. Luzhkov have described the
deportations as a potent weapon in the war on crime. But none of the 6,000
people deported so far have been charged with any wrongdoing, the police
acknowledge.

Rather, the measure seems intended to clear the streets of poor Russians and
immigrants from the former Soviet republics who have flooded the capital in a
desperate, often futile, search for jobs and housing.

"We don't want our city to look like the streets of New York or the shantytowns
of Latin America," Aleksandr V. Zolin, one of the Mayor's legal advisers, said
in an interview.

"We're not saying there should be an iron curtain separating Moscow from the
rest of the country, but we don't need homeless vagrants or beggars here," he
said.

The police in Moscow estimate that 20,000 people, one-fifth the number in New
York City, are homeless in this city of eight million. In Moscow, with hardly
any shelters, most live on the streets. The debate over how to deal with them
reflects Russia's struggle to cope with a social ill that has spread since the
collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991.

The new, post-Communist Russian Constitution guarantees the right to freedom of
movement and forbids detention without charge for more than 48 hours. And in the
city's new policy, some rights advocates say they hear echoes of old Soviet
decrees, which tried to close the capital to virtually all but the most
politically connected newcomers.

"As a whole this contradicts our Constitution and our law," Vladimir A.
Kartashkin, chairman of Mr. Yeltsin's Commission on Human Rights, said of the
new policy. "This is a very serious issue."

Mr. Kartashkin said his commission would study the matter and present its
findings to Mr. Yeltsin in a few months.

Undeterred by such criticism, city officials readily acknowledge that they are
trying to close the city to the poor. "If people can afford to live here, they
are welcome," Mr. Zolin said. "If they cannot, they should stay where they are.
In our view, there is no freedom without financial means."

Mayor Luzhkov outlined the city's deportation policy seven weeks ago, after a
decree from President Yeltsin gave city officials broad power to detain and
deport the homeless.

The deportations, which have cost the city about $4.5 million so far, help ease
the strain on its already overwhelmed transportation and social service network
and protect the public from disease, Mr. Zolin said. He scoffed at the idea that
the measures might be unconstitutional.

"Their idea of freedom of movement is the freedom to sleep in the streets," Mr.
Zolin said, "and what kind of freedom is that?"

Some of the deported have managed to come back, the police say. But outraged
human rights advocates say they may still carry their complaints to Russia's
highest court.

"This is terrifying," said Sergei A. Kovalyov, a human rights advocate who is
also a member of Parliament. "We are all children of the Soviet era, the Stalin
era. We have seen deportations before. We must raise our voices against this."

But on the bustling streets here, there is little sympathy for the beggars
huddling in subway stations, the vagabonds lurching past gleaming new shops and
the wrinkled women pleading for rubles.

Some are alcoholics, ex-convicts or prostitutes. Some are old people who were
swindled out of their homes when real estate was privatized, or immigrants whose
dreams of a better life in the big city have crashed around them.

There are few homeless children in Moscow, and none have been deported, the
police say. Ninety-three percent of the people forced to leave the city have
been men, mostly between the ages of 30 and 60.

"They are lazy bums who make begging a way of living," said Larisa, 47, an
engineer who was hurrying home from work and would not give her last name. "I
work hard to get by. Why don't they?"

But Mr. Ryazanov, the grizzled man imprisoned in Social Rehabilitation Center
No. 2, which is run by the police, said deportation would worsen his already
precarious situation.

"In Moscow at least I have a job," said Mr. Ryazanov, who loaded vegetables in a
local market before he was detained. There is little work in Frolovo, the town
in southern Russia where he grew up and where he will soon return, he said.

"There I have no job, no family, no home," he said. "There I will be homeless
and a thief. How else will I survive without stealing for food?"

It is not that homelessness did not exist during Soviet times, although fewer
people slept on the streets then. But Communist leaders prided themselves on
their country's guarantee of employment and housing for all. Homeless people who
threatened that image were considered criminals.

Article 209 of the Soviet criminal code defined vagrancy as a crime punishable
by at least one year in prison, the police say. That law, along with others
restricting movement from the provinces to the city, helped prevent the homeless
from surfacing in large numbers here.

But with the collapse of Communism, those laws were abolished. And as tens of
thousands of people poured into the capital, fleeing ethnic strife or seeking
economic opportunity, city officials found themselves unprepared to deal with
the growing population of street people.

Today, New York City has 25,000 government-provided shelter beds, a number that
homeless advocates consider woefully inadequate. Moscow has 25.

"We need more shelters," said Vladimir L. Bychkovsky, who runs Social
Rehabilitation Center No. 2. "We'd like to do more for these people, but we
can't. We have to send them to the streets."

By the end of 1997, city officials hope to have more than 800 beds. But those
will be reserved for the homeless from Moscow, who are detained but not
deported.

Outsiders -- even Russians from other cities -- will continue to be shipped out
unless they are granted permanent residency here, a privilege reserved for the
very lucky or the very rich.

Temporary permits are available for vacations or studies or medical treatment.
But the only people from outside who are allowed to live here permanently, city
officials say, are those who can persuade a Muscovite to give up his or her home
-- in effect swap residences -- or those who can afford to buy an apartment
here, which cost anywhere from $10,000 to $150,000.

Human rights advocates say this, too, is unconstitutional. These requirements
prevent most average Russians, who earn about $100 a month, from living legally
in the nation's capital.

Without a permanent residency stamp in the internal passports that all Russians
carry, most people are barred from finding on-the-books jobs, from renting
government-subsidized apartments, from attending public schools and from
receiving free, routine medical care, city officials say.

"Without this stamp, they're entitled to nothing," said Siobhan Keegan, an
Irishwoman who is the medical coordinator of Doctors Without Borders, the
international relief organization that treats the homeless here. "The lucky ones
find temporary work. The rest, they beg."

Social Rehabilitation Center No. 2, one of 12 detention centers, holds 100
people in 10 small cells that smell of unwashed bodies and steamed cabbage.

The homeless are detained and deported, but rarely rehabilitated, Mr. Bychkovsky
said. The police buy tickets and load the prisoners on the train. Some accompany
the homeless to their destinations. Others do not.

In either case, the homeless people usually return to a life without homes,
without steady work and with dim prospects of finding either.

"We, the police, we can't solve this problem," Mr. Bychkovsky said.  "Half the
people we send out find their way back. Poor people will always come to Moscow,
because it's easier for them to find jobs here."

Mr. Ryazanov came to Moscow and found off-the-books work in the vegetable
markets. Rashid Safin of Nizhny Novgorod in central Russia and Viktor Sosnovsky
from Ukraine found work building country houses. They slept in gardens, under
bridges, in alleys before they were detained. Soon they will be sent home.

So they listened jealously as Vitaly Mladchenkov, 28, an ex-convict, told his
story. He is from Moscow, so he can live legally in this city and is entitled to
a shelter bed and subsidized housing.

But entitlements mean little these days. More than 20 million Russians wait on
city lists for housing, officials say. Mr. Mladchenkov says he slept on the
street for three years while he waited for an apartment. And since the city's
25-bed shelter is usually full, he doubts that he will find a spot there either.

"So when I get out of here," he asked, "where will I go?"

No one said anything, not the homeless men sitting next to him, nor the watchmen
guarding the door.

Mr. Mladchenkov shrugged. He knew the answer. They all knew the answer. "I will
live in the street again," he said matter-of-factly. "We will all live in the
street again."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Moscow is deporting many of its homeless people to distant
towns. Given a one-way ticket to Saratov, Svetlana Nosova waited for her train
to leave. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A12)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              390 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

On Homeless, Moscow Takes Cue From West

SECTION: Section A;   Page 16;   Column 6;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 202 words


To the Editor:

Re "Moscow Sends Homeless to Faraway Hometowns" (front page, Oct. 15): Who could
stifle outrage at Moscow's deportation of its homeless? But who would expect
less?

Given Moscow's former nomen klatura, who snapped up homes during the city's
massive privatization, and given the soaring unemployment and poverty
exacerbated by International Monetary Fund and World Bank policies, the
deportation of 6,000 do-nothings seems minor.

In defense of Mayor Yuri M. Luzhkov's plan, United States policy toward illegal
immigrants seems different only in scale.

If other rich nations do it, why not fence out a Russian sea of rural
destitution from an (envisaged) Muscovite island of metropolitan opulence?

In fact, Moscow could raise some desperately needed foreign exchange by inviting
House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Gov. Pete Wilson of California and their French
counterparts, for example, for a seminar on how to keep those pesky
immigrants/homeless from snatching our jobs, public housing, public schools and
Medicare.

Long live Mayor Luzhkov! Vive le roi!

ANDERSCORR
San Francisco, Oct. 15, 1996

The writer is the author of articles on the worldwide squatters' movement.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              391 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 21, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Metro Matters;
Immigrants Fighting Back, As Citizens

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


THIS will seem like a rude question, but do those candidates who are campaigning
against immigrants know what they are doing? More to the point, are they looking
ahead, past, say, Nov. 5?

Maybe. Maybe they have calculated the odds and figure the votes are with them in
electoral perpetuity.

Or maybe what is happening now in this country will someday stand out as the
most remarkable demonstration ever of the principle of unintended consequences.
At least that is how it looks in California, where the immigrant wars are red
hot. And radicalizing.

Mexican-born men and women who have lived here complacently for a lifetime and
never bothered to become citizens are studying the Constitution. They are
learning the meaning of propositions and referendums. They are looking at sample
ballots, attending citizenship workshops, even badgering their children to teach
them about George Washington.

"It's driving me nuts!" Claudia Castellanos said over french fries in the
courtyard of Thomas Jefferson High School in South Central Los Angeles. "My mom
is, like, with all the citizenship questions. Like who was the first President
of the United States. Or when is Independence Day."

IT is not really driving her nuts. The 14-year-old freshman is delighted that
her parents, who emigrated from Mexico 15 years ago, have decided to become
citizens and vote. "What is going on is unfair," she complained. "Mexicans were
here first!"

That is the other part of this equation: members of the younger generation. They
are talking like the civil rights activists of the 1960's.

They did not talk like this two years ago, before California voters approved
Proposition 187, a crackdown on benefits to illegal aliens that most immigrants
see as an attack on those here legally and illegally. Then came the new welfare
law, which denies benefits to legal immigrants who are not citizens, and the
punitive attitudes and policies they hear in the words of political figures like
Pete Wilson, California's Republican Governor, and Bob Dole.

Just last week, on a campaign sweep through southern California, Mr. Dole went
on the attack against illegal immigrants and against President Clinton for
opposing moves to withhold public education from the children of illegal aliens.
"This is a fight for America's future," Mr. Dole said. "This is a fight we
cannot afford to lose."

It may also be a fight the Republicans are doomed to lose in the long run, even
though such sloganeering helped get Mr. Wilson re-elected in 1994 and may help
Mr. Dole with some constituencies.

"I think it's time to start backpedaling," suggested Arturo Vargas, executive
director of the National Association of Latino Elected Officials. "The new
immigrant citizen is a natural constituency for the Republican Party. The issues
of family values, law and order, making it on your own: these themes play very
well. But it seems they are alienating a growing segment of the population."

GROWING it is. Federal figures show that in six counties in the Los Angeles
area, 218,000 people -- most of them Hispanic, many Asian -- became citizens in
the last 12 months, compared with 110,000 last year and only 60,000 in 1994. The
same phenomenon is breaking records nationally: 1.2 million naturalizations in
the 1996 fiscal year, compared with 445,853 last year and 407,398 the year
before. Last month, The New York Times reported that 75 percent of the
naturalizations are in and around six cities whose states have many electoral
votes: New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco, Miami and Houston.

There are a few reasons, including changes in immigration laws that simplify
naturalization, and Democratic voter registration drives. But prospective
citizens cite only one factor, what Rosario Manzilla calls "la amenaza." The
menace. "I feel a lot of people are waking up," Mrs. Manzilla, a community
representative at Thomas Jefferson High School, said last week after a voting
seminar for parents at Jefferson, conducted in Spanish by an aide to
Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard, a Democrat from a downtown district.

Most of the 17 parents in the room had lived up to 30 years in Los Angeles but
were not citizens and spoke only halting English. Much more so than in New York,
people can live wholly isolated lives in Los Angeles's barrios. That is what
happens when it takes a car and 45 minutes on a choked freeway to get from Point
A to Point B, instead of a $1.50 subway ride. The isolation works both ways:
politicians don't bother to cross the carbon-monoxided frontiers either. Why
should they, if nobody votes?

"If we do not participate, we will remain underdogs," Mrs. Manzilla said. So she
became a citizen four years ago. After 20 years, she and her husband will be
casting a ballot for President next month. To defeat la amenaza.

And who will get Mrs. Manzilla's vote? In response to that impertinence, Mrs.
Manzilla bristled, as many a more practiced voter would: "Don't ask me that!
It's a secret ballot, isn't it?"

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              392 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 22, 1996, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS;
Alliance of G.O.P. and Cuban-Americans Shows Rift

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO

SECTION: Section A;  Page 24;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 853 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 21


At a recent citizenship ceremony, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen called the
2,500 immigrants from 83 countries taking the oath of allegiance "the embodiment
of the American dream" and assured them that "the promise of America is so great
because of people like you."

The words came from a Republican, but they contrasted sharply with the message
the Republican-led Congress has been sending from Washington with the passage of
measures like the one limiting welfare benefits for legal immigrants. Ms.
Ros-Lehtinen voted against that bill, and also broke with her party over the
immigration bill and the measure that would declare English the nation's
official language.

Her rebellion underscores the disenchantment of Cuban-Americans with
Republicans, a demographic group that the party has long taken for granted.

Now Cuban-Americans may help a Democratic Presidential candidate carry Florida
for the first time since Jimmy Carter in 1976.

President Clinton is scheduled to visit the state on Tuesday and Wednesday,
making stops in Miami, Coral Gables and Daytona Beach. The latest Mason-Dixon
Florida poll shows him and his Republican challenger, Bob Dole, in a statistical
dead heat -- 47 percent for Mr. Clinton and 44 percent for Mr. Dole, with a
margin of error of 3.5 percentage points.

Among Cuban-Americans, a majority would still vote for Mr. Dole, statewide polls
show. But there are cracks in their alliance with the Republican Party.

A survey in August by Dario Moreno, a political scientist at Florida
International University in Miami, found that although Mr. Clinton gets the
support of barely a quarter of Cuban-Americans, only 57 percent would vote for
Mr. Dole, compared with the 72 percent who voted for George Bush in 1992. The
Republican nominee prevailed in the state in 1988, 1984 and 1980, with 80
percent or more of the Cuban-American vote.

Although Cuban-Americans, about 7 percent of the state's electorate, are not
usually critical as a voting bloc in Florida, which Bill Clinton lost in 1992 by
100,000 votes, a shift in their support could help the President erase that gap.
(Other Hispanic Americans make up 3 percent of the electorate but tend to split
their vote between the two major parties.)

Ms. Ros-Lehtinen broke with her party over the same issues that have turned off
many Hispanic Republicans. She refused to sign the Republicans' 1994 campaign
agenda, the Contract With America, over provisions she called "a stab in the
back of immigrants."

"Our Republican Party is sending mixed messages," said Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, who
emigrated from Cuba in 1971. "In San Diego we say we're the party of inclusion,
and yet the legislation we're putting forth seems to go against those
statements."

Still, she and other political analysts agree that although Cuban-American
voters may flirt with the Democrats this year, in the end they will resist
seduction. Mr. Clinton, they note, signed the welfare bill. He signed the
Helms-Burton bill that discouraged foreign investment in Cuba, but he has so far
delayed allowing lawsuits against companies that use confiscated American
property in Cuba.

"I'm not sure Clinton is going to get all of the vote that Dole is losing," said
Mr. Moreno, an expert on Hispanic voting patterns here. "The real difference is
that you don't have the automatic support for the G.O.P."

Ms. Ros-Lehtinen, who is actively campaigning for Mr. Dole, said Hispanic voters
were still attracted to the party that emphasizes family values, eschews new
taxes and includes Jack Kemp, who is regarded as a softer voice on minority
issues.

"We're still a family," she said, "and there's no cause for divorce."

Mr. Clinton has benefited from Mr. Dole's attention to other states at the
expense of Florida, and from his own quick response last February to Cuba's
shooting down of two civilian planes belonging to an exile group. Democrats
point out that after Mr.  Clinton showed a hard line toward Cuba by signing the
Helms-Burton bill, he removed toughness with Cuba as the main reason for
Cuban-Americans to vote Republican.

Mr. Clinton also benefits from consumer confidence in the economy and from a
gender gap created by resentment among women to Mr. Dole's opposition to
abortion.

Florida Democrats say they are happy with Mr. Clinton's attention to the state,
including five visits and a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign. "Every
time we turn around, he's here," Gov. Lawton Chiles said. "He's going all out to
win this thing."

Democrats here say they hope for at least 30 percent of the Cuban-American vote.

"They're not going to switch parties," said Herminio San Roman, a Miami lawyer
who is co-chairman of the Clinton campaign's effort to woo Hispanic voters, "but
in this election this community does not have the fire within itself to go out
and vote for Bob Dole."

Some political analysts called the 30 percent goal optimistic. After all, said
Robert Joffee, director of the Mason-Dixon Florida poll, "when a Democratic
Presidential candidate does exceptionally well among Cubans, he's still getting
his clock cleaned."

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              393 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 24, 1996, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

POLITICS: THE AD CAMPAIGN;
Dole Plans $4 Million in California Ads

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

SECTION: Section B;  Page 11;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 981 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 23


Planning a huge shift of resources in the last two weeks of the campaign, Dole
officials say they will spend $4 million on advertising in California, praising
Bob Dole for his honesty and his tax plan while accusing President Clinton of
lying and of failing to halt illegal immigration.

Meanwhile, the California Republican Party is buying a total of $1.7 million in
advertising time, according to a Democratic analysis, for a commercial to
support a ballot initiative that would eliminate state affirmative action
programs.

The commercial notes that Mr. Clinton opposes the initiative, Proposition 209,
but it does not mention Mr. Dole. It features a quotation from the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr., shown giving his "I Have a Dream" speech, but King
scholars and the King estate say the commercial misrepresents the civil rights
leader's views. The California Republican Party said today that it was
considering dropping Dr. King from the commercial, which is to begin
broadcasting as early as this weekend.

Dole campaign officials said the commercial would help their cause by
criticizing Mr. Clinton and by encouraging Republican voters to turn out.

"This is, over the final two weeks of the campaign, an unprecedented coordinated
effort between the Dole-Kemp campaign and the California Republican Party to
maximize the vote for Bob Dole and Republican candidates," said John Buckley,
Mr. Dole's communications director. "In addition, there is a considerable effort
by the Republican Party to maximize the voter turnout, to help defeat Bill
Clinton."

But Clinton campaign officials said that they asked voters about the ballot
proposition in a poll on Tuesday night, and found that it did not affect their
opinion of the candidates. "People don't associate it with Dole," one Clinton
official said.

He argued that the commercial showed that the California state party was more
interested in helping Republican Congressional candidates than Mr. Dole. "They
want to lower Clinton's favorable, so he has no coattails," he said.

Clinton campaign officials said they would spend more than $2 million in
California in the next two weeks, but would not match the spending of the Dole
campaign dollar for dollar.

Mr. Dole plans to make a campaign bus trip through California this weekend, and
to campaign there again late next week. The Dole campaign has meanwhile pulled
all its advertising from New Hampshire, and from New York and Pennsylvania, two
media markets that cover New Jersey. The huge shift of money and time to
California comes as The Los Angeles Times reported this morning that its polling
showed Mr. Clinton with a 20-point lead there.

Mr. Buckley said Mr. Dole would speak out against affirmative action while in
California. But a Republican official, speaking on the condition of anonymity,
said Mr. Dole would not advertise on that issue, because doing so would
interfere with his other messages. "We're committed to truth and taxes on the
positive," the official said. "And we're committed, in California, to truth and
immigration on the negative."

Mr. Dole also began broadcasting commercials in Virginia this week, and the
Clinton campaign is considering responding there.

The Dole campaign is broadcasting two commercials in California. One features
Elizabeth Dole praising her husband's integrity and promising that he would cut
taxes by 15 percent. The other one attacks Mr. Clinton as a liar who promised a
tax cut but raised taxes, and promised tough ethics rules but delivered "more
investigations, more prosecutions, and more convictions."

Neither commercial shows an image of Mr. Dole, except in a tiny box in one
corner, a fact that delights Democrats. "He is so radioactive he's not in his
own TV," said Rahm Emanuel, a White House adviser.

The Dole campaign also released another commercial today, which it said it would
broadcast in California. The advertisement refers to a girl named Nicole who was
quoted in a New York Times article.

The narrator says: "She told The New York Times: 'Look at Bill Clinton. He
smoked marijuana and became President.' " The narrator concludes: "Before you
vote remember: Our children have to live with the President we give them."

Mr. Dole also does not appear in that ad, except in a small box.

John Herrington, the California state Republican Party chairman, said that the
party was fully committed to electing Mr. Dole, but that because of campaign
finance laws, it could not put him in its commercial about affirmative action.

"We want to help Bob Dole all we can, but our purpose is pro-Prop. 209," Mr.
Herrington said.

The affirmative action commercial includes a scene from the "I Have a Dream"
speech in 1963 in Washington, where Dr. King declared that people should "not be
judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character."
According to a script obtained by the Clinton campaign, the commercial's
narrator says: "Martin Luther King was right. Bill Clinton is wrong to oppose
Prop. 209. Let's get rid of all discrimination."

But Steve Klein, a research associate at the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for
Nonviolent Social Change, in Atlanta, said Dr. King supported the kinds of
programs that have come to be called affirmative action.

"He believed in, clearly, what we call affirmative action today, as a
justifiable compensatory program," Mr. Klein said.

Mr. Herrington said that the party had paid $1,600 for the right to use the
scene of the King speech, but that he was "up in the air" about whether to take
it out of the commercial.

"The quote fits perfectly, and I would like to use it, but the King estate has
said don't use it," he said.  "A couple of people have said, 'Would Martin
Luther King support quotas?' I don't know."

He added: "The main thing is our intentions are kind. I'm not trying to make it
a racist-type thing."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              394 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Is It a Global Market for Campaign Gifts, Too?;
Don't Bar Legal Aliens

SECTION: Section A;  Page 38;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 131 words


To the Editor:

Your Oct. 22 editorial says the Republican Presidential contender Bob Dole
"proposes to bar all campaign contributions from foreigners residing in the
United States," and you welcome the proposal.

Large contributions from any source can distort campaigns and policies, of
course, and reform is surely needed. But when I was a legal alien, with a green
card and waiting out the time before I could apply for citizenship, I was glad
of the opportunity to contribute a few dollars here and there. After all, I
couldn't vote, but I had to pay taxes.

So now, donning the fashionable cloak of xenophobia, you want to take away even
that paltry participation from legal immigrants? Say it ain't so!

DESMOND B. JOHNSON
Forest Hills, Queens, Oct. 22,1996

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              395 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 30, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Don't Surrender to Lower Housing Standard

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 153 words


To the Editor:

Back off on enforcing New York City's housing codes: that's Peter D. Salins's
answer to the miserable housing conditions of hundreds of thousands of
impoverished immigrants (Op-Ed, Oct. 26). If his prescription sounds familiar,
that's because it is like frequently heard advice to go along with sweatshops
and minimum-wage violations, since those are means of giving low-skilled
immigrants a foothold and of preserving small businesses.

Both approaches involve public assent to the lowering of hard-won standards that
are morally and economically crucial. Better management of immigration itself,
not surrender to third world working and housing standards, must be this
nation's response to the squalor that threatens low-income immigrants and
natives alike.

DAVID SIMCOX
Louisville, Ky., Oct. 28, 1996

The writer is policy-board chairman of the Center for Immigration Studies.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              396 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 1, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Third Wave

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A;  Page 35;  Column 2;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 690 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


In the decade since World War II, Republican candidates have used scare tactics
effectively on two issues, Communism and crime. They persuaded significant
numbers of voters that Democrats were "soft on Communism" and, later, "soft on
crime."

Those tactics were not available in 1996. The Soviet Union is gone, the Red
Scare only a memory. And President Clinton deprived Republicans of the crime
issue by outbidding them on the death penalty and, over their opposition,
providing Federal funds to enlarge local police forces.

Bereft of the two traditional hobgoblins, Bob Dole and other Republicans are
trying a third: immigration. They are telling voters that the Clinton
Administration has allowed hordes of nasty, criminal foreigners into the country
-- and even made them citizens.

There is about as much truth in those charges as there was in Senator Joe
McCarthy's claims that 105 or 237 or however many Communists worked in the State
Department in the 1950's. Which is to say: none.

But truth never got in Senator McCarthy's way, and it does not detain the pale
sleek version of McCarthy who is Bob Dole's tutor on immigration scare tactics,
Gov. Pete Wilson of California. Senator Dole has been campaigning in California
over the last week, making wild charges about immigrants that come straight out
of the Wilson book.

"We have all these new people coming into America, rushing through the
immigration process," Senator Dole said. "We find out that maybe 10 percent are
criminals. They want to get them ready for Election Day."

Senator Dole was referring there, in his cryptic way, to a canard circulated by
Congressional Republicans and Governor Wilson: that an Immigration and
Naturalization Service program to cut the backlog of citizenship applications by
more efficient handling was designed to create citizens who would vote for
President Clinton, and that in the process the I.N.S. let a large number of
criminals become citizens.

In fact, the Republican Congress repeatedly approved the I.N.S. program, called
Citizenship U.S.A. Despite a large increase in applications, the program has cut
the waiting time to six months for those eligible to become citizens. There has
been no showing of any partisanship in its operation.

Nor has there been any proof of Republican charges that the I.N.S. has lowered
its standards or relaxed its checking process. The percentage of applicants
denied citizenship is the same as or higher than in past years. The service also
deported record numbers of aliens.

The facts did not stop Pete Wilson. On Oct. 21 he wrote Attorney General Janet
Reno denouncing "the Administration's blatant manipulation of the I.N.S. for
political gain." He charged that the service had "allowed thousands of criminal
aliens -- including rapists, drug traffickers, gun smugglers and even murderers
-- to slip through the cracks and become United States citizens."

About a million people have become citizens in the last year. Republicans have
charged that 50,000 were criminals, a figure drawn out of the air. Bob Dole's
"10 percent" would be 100,000. An intensive study by the I.N.S. has just found
that 1,300 people may have obtained citizenship improperly, for one reason or
another, in the last year. All are now subject to new denaturalization
procedures.

The Commissioner of the I.N.S., Doris Meissner, is widely regarded as the ablest
person ever to hold that job. During her three years in office the service has
greatly improved the effectiveness of its border patrol and, among other things,
started programs to make sure that aliens serving time in state prisons are
deported when their sentences are up.

Last week Ms. Meissner wrote to Governor Wilson. "I implore you," she wrote, to
stop making "false and inflammatory" charges. To do so, she said, was "deeply
unfair to the millions of dedicated and patriotic naturalized citizens who have
contributed so much to the vibrancy and spirit of our society."

"America is for Americans," Bob Dole said in California. It is by overcoming
such nativism and anti-immigrant paranoia that we have become a great country.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              397 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 6, 1996, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Survival on a Stylish Shoestring;
Slick Magazine Offers Immigrant Readers Practical Advice

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

SECTION: Section B;  Page 17;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1346 words


Magazines on the newsstands were not speaking to Karen Hylton, who moved to
Brooklyn three years ago from the island of Jamaica.

She was not concerned with slimming her thighs in two weeks or winning over her
6-year-old son with elaborate four-course meals, as the women's magazines
promised. Her nurse's salary did not leave her with enough money to buy the
designer clothes featured in the fashion magazines. And she had little interest
in reading about Hollywood, politics or personal finance.

Then Ms. Hylton came upon City Family, a magazine aimed at women like herself:
low- and middle-income immigrants trying to make a better life for themselves in
New York City.

"Other magazines have stories that are real to other people but not real to us,"
Ms. Hylton, 33, said. "This magazine talks about how common people live, how
they can manage. It has facts that are very important and informative."

City Family was started four years ago by Arthur Schiff, 56, who spent most of
his career working in social service organizations and organizing the city's
food stamp program in 1970 as a member of the administration of Mayor John V.
Lindsay.

In four years, the TV Guide-size magazine's circulation has risen to 210,000
from 10,000. Half of those readers get the Spanish edition, La Familia de la
Ciudad. City Family plans to increase its production to six issues a year from
four beginning in January, raising the subscription rate to $5.95, from $3. In
its first effort to get paid subscriptions -- no more than 500 readers pay for
the magazine -- City Family has begun inserting subscription cards.

This fall, City Family -- which appears to have no direct competition in New
York City -- began distributing in other cities with substantial immigrant
populations, like Los Angeles, Miami, Houston and Chicago, and recently the
magazine began appearing on newsstands.

Given the current overhaul of the welfare system and the debate over how the
country should handle its immigrant population, Mr. Schiff said he believes the
magazine is poised to be especially helpful. In addition to celebrity profiles,
mostly of minority stars, and fashion tips, the magazine offers its readers
practical information on everything from becoming a United States citizen to
handling debt to guarding against a fire in the home.

"This is a primer," Mr. Schiff said.

Mr. Schiff said he modeled the magazine after women's service publications,
after realizing that low-income women -- most of City Family's readers are
female -- are just as much consumers as their wealthier counterparts.

"All the information they got was how to be poor." Mr. Schiff said. "How to get
food stamps. How to get their kids into public school. People want a
middle-class life style."

So that while City Family speaks to a socioeconomic stratum dramatically
different from that of most mainstream publications -- most of its readers earn
less than $20,000 a year, and the magazine is written at a fifth-grade level --
its message is largely the same.

"Toothpaste is something everybody uses, whether you're on Park Avenue in the
Bronx or Park Avenue in Manhattan," Mr. Schiff said. "Cameras, stereos, tape
recorders, toasters, microwaves, air-conditioners -- these women are quite like
the rest of the nation in wanting these things."

Given that most women's magazines are geared to aspiration and acquisition,
however, featuring coiffed models draped in $6,000 leather Chanel coats and $500
Calvin Klein turtlenecks, City Family aims to offer consumer tips that are both
accessible and affordable.

The current issue's fashion section, for example, features items such as a white
shirt from Rainbow Shops ($6), a suit from Lerner ($68) and black patent shoes
from Bradlees ($16.99). The magazine also encourages readers to use their
imaginations to stretch their budgets -- making Halloween costumes at home, for
example, or bringing lunches to work. "It's not things they can't have, it's
things they haven't thought of," Mr. Schiff said.

To produce a pilot issue, Mr. Schiff started the magazine as a nonprofit
venture, securing $40,000 in grants from the Robert Sterling Clark Foundation
and from the J. P. Morgan Charitable Trust. An anonymous investor also set up
what amounts to a line of credit for the magazine that Mr. Schiff would describe
only as "hundreds of thousands of dollars." City Family's budget is $400,000 a
year, he said.

The magazine is distributed free in places where immigrants congregate, like
health clinics and community centers. "New York is the waiting-room capital of
the United States," Mr. Schiff said.

And increasingly, Mr. Schiff said, the magazine is being used in classrooms as a
tool for adults learning English as a second language or for high school
students learning Spanish in New York City.

"It's just a dream to have in the classroom," said Fiona Armstrong, a teacher
with the New York City Board of Education's Office of Adult and Continuing
Education. "It's not a faked-up textbook. It's full of information my students
can understand -- written specifically for a new American."

But even with the magazine's growing popularity, Mr. Schiff said, advertisers
have yet to respond in great numbers. So far, the magazine's main advertisers
have been Medicaid managed-care organizations. "That remains the overriding
issue we have to contend with," said Mr. Schiff, who sells much of the
advertising himself.

The resistance among advertisers stems, Mr. Schiff suggests, from classism.

"Ad people don't have a category called 'immigrant,' " Mr. Schiff said.
"Advertisers say, 'If my client wants to reach women 18 to 34, I'll get the
women in the highest income level who buy the most. You have something unusual,
but we don't want it.' "

Some advertisers, however, have decided they do want what City Family has to
offer.

"We were trying to reach a specific demographic group -- fairly recent
immigrants who still have ties to their country," said Ellen Oppenheim, the
media director at FCB/ Leber Katz Partners, who placed an ad in City Family for
AT&T. "This publication really addressed that target very well."

At the same time, Ms. Oppenheim said, City Family is a controlled-circulation
magazine that is distributed largely free, and therefore not monitored by
standard services like the Audit Bureau of Circulations. That, she said, makes
its impact difficult to measure.

"Because of the lack of information available on this, it feels riskier," Ms.
Oppenheim said. "On the other hand, if they are able to demonstrate that they
have the ability to reach a target that's harder to find, they may be able to
overcome that disadvantage because, in a sense, they're the only game in town."

Despite an uphill financial climb, City Family has managed to become a rather
substantial if unorthodox operation. What Mr. Schiff calls "global headquarters"
is a fourth-floor walk-up in a brownstone on the Upper West Side that doubles as
his apartment. The staff includes a handful of top editors who, until recently,
volunteered their time and now each receive honorariums of $1,000 or $2,000 an
issue.

"Everybody's got day jobs," said Mr. Schiff, who said he has drawn the same
salary of $48,000 for four years. The magazine's creative director, Jordan
Schaps, for example, also works full time at New York magazine as photo director
of special projects.

"It's a labor of love," Mr. Schaps said. "It's providing a step for the people
in this country who feel disenfranchised and don't want to be on welfare. This
is a little something for them to stand on."

Indeed, besides helping her with the basics -- how to arrange for Social
Security benefits, how to feed her son nutritional meals on a limited budget --
the magazine has inspired Ms. Hylton with articles about immigrants building
better lives for themselves in the big city.

"I liked the article about Indians who came without anything -- penniless -- and
broke into the newsstand business," Ms. Hylton said. "I like the articles about
how ordinary people make it."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "This is a primer," Arthur Schiff, founder of City Family, said
of his four-year-old magazine. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); Like its
upmarket cousins, the TV Guide-size magazine City Family is filled with
celebrity profiles, fashion tips and advice on everything from buying toothpaste
to balancing the home budget.

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              398 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 10, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: LONG ISLAND CITY;
In Jammed District, a School Is Half Empty

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 13;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 576 words


With its growing population of young immigrant families, Community School
District 30 has long had classrooms jammed beyond capacity. At the beginning of
the school year, it was the eighth most crowded district of the 32 in the city,
and one of its junior high schools was under orders from the Chancellor's office
to alleviate overcrowding.

But one school in District 30, Intermediate School 235, planned especially for
new immigrant children in grades 6 through 8, is operating far below capacity.
Last week, there were 102 students in the two-story brick school, which was
designed for 250.

District officials expect that the school, at 28-04 41st Avenue in Long Island
City, will fill up quickly as word gets out among immigrants that seats are
available. But that the school is operating at only about 40 percent of capacity
two months after the start of the school year illustrates the logistical
problems of enrollment even in a district where overcrowding is rampant.

Angelo Gimondo, the district superintendent, said factors like transporting
students from the eastern reaches of the district, which stretches from Long
Island City through Jackson Heights to Corona, and informing widely spread
immigrant communities that the school is open, were still being sorted out.

"The school has been in session for two months," he said. "These youngsters will
keep coming throughout the year. As more people learn about it, as word gets
around, what I suspect is that we won't be able to accommodate the demand."

Dr. Gimondo also said some principals at other middle schools in the district
initially hesitated to refer their students to I. S. 235 because "they felt that
if they lost the kids, they would lose the resources for these kids," like
paraprofessionals or other workers or resources that are based on daily student
enrollment. Dr. Gimondo said the principals had been assured that transferring
immigrant students to the school would have no impact on their resources.

Even with the principals' concerns, more than half the students in I. S. 235,
also known as the Academy for New Americans, are transfers from overcrowded
schools elsewhere in the district. All the transferred students are new
immigrants. Students at I.S. 235, who have to leave the specialized school after
a year, come from 18 different countries and speak 10 languages.

Fliers have been posted at other middle schools informing immigrant parents that
the school is open. Some parents, Dr. Gimondo said, hesitated to send their
children to Long Island City; while he agreed that the school would have been
more attractive in a more central location, I. S. 235 was set up in Long Island
City so that it could share resources with the Newcomer School, a high school
across the street that is also for new immigrants. To allay parents' concerns,
the district has made a school bus available for sixth graders at I. S. 235.

Parents are beginning to inquire about I. S. 235, said its principal, Carmen
Iris Rivera. Its small size, she said, has become one of its biggest selling
points: average class size is 15 to 17 students, a luxury compared with the
class sizes in other middle schools in the district, which can be double that
number.

"There's a lot of time for one-on-one," Ms. Rivera said. "At this school,
there's no ridicule. Everybody is here for the same reason -- to learn English
and get accustomed to a new culture."   SOMINI SENGUPTA

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 17, 1996, Sunday

CORRECTION:

A picture caption in the Neighborhood Report last Sunday with an article about
Intermediate School 235 in Long Island City, which is operating far below
capacity, misidentified a teacher there. He is Som Mehta, not Douglas Avila.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Douglas Avila, who is from El Salvador, teaching math to
seventh graders, and some empty seats, at I. S. 235.; Douglas Avila, who is from
El Salvador, teaching math to seventh graders, and some empty seats, at I. S.
235. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              399 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 15, 1996, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Welfare Plan Gives Power To Localities

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

SECTION: Section B;    Page 1;    Column 5;    Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1038 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, Nov. 14


Just as the Federal Government has turned over the major responsibility for
running welfare programs to the states, Gov. George E. Pataki is proposing to
transfer to local governments broad new powers to decide what necessities to
give many of the state's poorest people, and for how long.

The Governor and some local officials say the system will allow communities to
devise programs that work best for their residents. But critics fear that some
local governments are unprepared for the job, and that communities will slash
benefits to save money, prompting poor people to flock to the most generous
places.

For decades, the state's welfare system has given money to poor families and
individuals for as long as they could demonstrate need. The state sets benefit
levels by law, while the counties and New York City, which administer the
welfare system, write the checks.

But Mr. Pataki, in a plan he presented to the State Legislature on Wednesday,
would turn that system on its ear.

First, he would reduce the number of families eligible for cash benefits, ending
support to people who have truant children, abuse drugs, violate parole or miss
work assignments, and cutting off all benefits after five years. Second, he
would end cash benefits entirely for all able-bodied people not eligible for the
family program, including many immigrants.

While families make up the majority of welfare recipients, in many ways, it is
for this second group -- immigrants and able-bodied childless adults -- that Mr.
Pataki's plan would have the most far-reaching impact. Rather than getting a
check to spend as they choose, they would receive vouchers for essentials like
food, clothing and shelter.

And rather than having the state tell local governments how much to spend on
each recipient, Mr. Pataki would give counties and New York City a lump sum of
money and almost unfettered authority to decide how to spend it on social
services.

For the first time, the change would give broad discretion to caseworkers to
decide what services and goods a person should receive, and for how long. Should
a person receive a voucher for rent and utilities, for milk and bread, for a
winter jacket or snow tires? The local government would decide. Should benefits
run for three weeks or six? Again, the local government would decide.

But the Governor's plan has raised many questions among advocates for the poor
and local officials. Has Mr. Pataki allocated enough money to insure that all
needs are met? How difficult will it be for local governments, particularly New
York City, to administer a new form of welfare payments, which would be, in
effect, a new currency. Will some counties be more parsimonious than others,
causing poor people to migrate in search of better benefits?

The New York City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone, said today that Mr.
Pataki's plan would cause a "race to the bottom," as counties tried to outdo
each other in slashing benefits. "The proposed voucher program, without adequate
resources, is at best an administrative nightmare and at worst will leave people
without food and shelter," he said. "It camouflages what essentially is a
passing of the buck."

Aides to Mr. Vallone said that their preliminary projections show that New York
City, which has 3 of every 4 of the state's welfare recipients, would receive
$840 million of the Governor's $1.2 billion safety net block grant. But they
estimated that the city would need at least $900 million to pay for the people
expected to seek vouchers. The Council's figure is based on the expectation that
tens of thousands of immigrants who will no longer be eligible for cash benefits
because of the new Federal welfare law will need assistance from the state
safety-net program.

But Mr. Pataki contends that welfare caseloads have been declining, so that $1.2
billion, which is the amount that state and local governments expect to spend on
able-bodied childless adults this year, should be more than sufficient for the
safety-net program.

In his news conference on Wednesday announcing his 300-page welfare bill, the
Governor also said that he wants to give more freedom to local governments
because he thinks they can tailor their programs better to their communities. He
said that giving vouchers instead of cash would help end abuses, such as
spending benefit checks on drugs and alcohol.

Many local welfare officials said they liked the idea of having more flexibility
to run their programs. But several expressed trepidation about what a new
voucher system would look like. Though many counties use vouchers now, it is
done on a limited scale, mostly for emergencies.

New York City has a program for day-care services used by 3,300 parents, and it
also uses vouchers to pay for security deposits and brokers' fees for people
moving into new apartments.

But those programs are tiny compared with one that would serve the 230,000
childless adults now receiving Home Relief, the state program that Mr. Pataki
wants to replace with his safety-net voucher system. Also, 1.1 million more
children and their parents are in the welfare program for families, known as Aid
to Families with Dependent Children.

Though the Giuliani administration declined to comment on the voucher plan,
Democratic officials and welfare advocates said they thought the Governor's
proposal would create huge bureaucratic problems for the city. They said the
city already has enough problems running its cash benefits system without having
to cajole thousands of landlords, bodegas, clothing stores and other businesses
to accept state vouchers.

Some small counties raised similar concerns.

"Vouchers take cash and turn it into a mountain of paper," said Rebecca Dix,
executive assistant to the Commissioner of Social Services in Chautauqua County,
south of Buffalo. "Vouchers have to be redeemed. Vouchers have to be
double-checked. They create paper and thereby increase the administrative
expenses."

Some welfare advocates raised concerns that counties would cut their benefits,
either to encourage poor people to go elsewhere or to reduce local costs, since
counties and the state would share equally in paying for the safety-net program.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Protesters gathered at a workfare placement center on 16th
Street in Manhattan yesterday to denounce Gov. George E. Pataki's welfare plan.
(Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)(pg. B6)


                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              400 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Airport Security

SECTION: Section 5;  Page 18;  Column 4;  Travel Desk

LENGTH: 304 words


To the Editor: I am appalled by the lack of security at Newark Airport.

On Oct. 7, my wife and I returned from Europe, and passed through Customs and
Immigration there. After we had cleared, we had to recheck our baggage for the
flight to Seattle. The recheck area was chaotic, and, after fighting our way
through, we were finally able to check our bags and go to the main terminal
area. At this point I found that my pocket had been picked, and my wallet
containing ID and credit cards was gone.

I re-entered the area to try to find my property, passing airport employees who
were presumably there to stop unauthorized entry, but who ignored me. I was
unable to interest any of the airport staff in my plight. The general reply was
that theft was impossible because no one was allowed in the area except staff
and incoming travelers. Anyone could have entered the secure area in the same
way, and obviously did. By the time I was able to notify the banks of the theft,
more than $3,000 had been charged to my cards.

The only person who took me seriously was a Customs officer who looked in the
Customs area to see if my wallet had been handed in as lost property. A police
officer I approached didn't want to take a report; instead he told me to have a
look in the trash cans since that was where most stolen wallets ended up.

PETER A. OWEN
Seattle

Robert J. Kelly, acting director of aviation for the Port Authority, responds:
The Port Authority takes every report of criminal activity seriously. This
incident is troubling, but the suggestion that a breach of security took place
is even more disturbing. It is this kind of event that our security initiatives
are designed to eliminate. Mr. Owen's complaint will be thoroughly investigated,
as it should have been when he first tried to report it.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              401 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 17, 1996, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Books in Brief: Nonfiction

BYLINE: By RUTH BAYARD SMITH

SECTION: Section 7;  Page 24;  Column 1;  Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 266 words



Americans No More

By Georgie Anne Geyer.

Atlantic Monthly, $23.

For 30 years Georgie Anne Geyer has written about international affairs, as a
foreign correspondent for The Chicago Daily News and as a columnist for
Universal Press Syndicate. Ms. Geyer's regular readers have no doubt of her
opposition to illegal immigration, of her assertion that United States
citizenship is a privilege, not a right, of her endorsement of English as the
country's official language, and of her indictment of political correctness and
the misguided news media. "Americans No More" takes a look at all this, and
portrays a country that is no longer certain of its own identity. Bolstered by
extensive research and interviews with an array of observers and scholars (far
too many of whom are described as "brilliant"), the book presents a bleak image
of a balkanized America. Ms. Geyer cites examples of immigrants resisting
assimilation and full citizenship while bringing their own cultural practices to
the United States. Unfortunately, she offers few proposals for improvement. Only
the final chapter addresses solutions and calls for "a voice that understands
the realities of relationships in America and in the world and one that is
unapologetic and wise about defending the interests of America and humankind."
It also briefly cites people involved in "reviving the spirit of citizenship" by
developing community-based organizations. Much of the text is written in strong,
absolute language, but Ms. Geyer rightly argues that these issues can no longer
be ignored.   Ruth Bayard Smith

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company


                              402 of 402 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 18, 1996, Monday, Late Edition - Final

The Hispanic Political Tide

BYLINE: By Linda Chavez;    Linda Chavez, president of the Center for Equal
Opportunity, served as director of public liaison in the Reagan White House.

SECTION: Section A;   Page 17;   Column 3;   Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: BETHESDA, Md.


Bob Dole received a smaller proportion of the Hispanic vote than any Republican
Presidential candidate in 25 years, and that is bad news for the G.O.P..

Hispanics are one of the fastest growing segments of the population. About 9
percent of the population today, they will likely be the largest minority group
in the United States in the next decade or two.

Hispanics are both socially conservative and increasingly middle class, and, in
recent years, far more likely than blacks to vote Republican. In 1984, Ronald
Reagan won almost 40 percent of the Hispanic vote.

This year, however, only 21 percent voted for Bob Dole. His record of support
for Hispanics could not overcome their growing suspicion that the G.O.P. is
becoming the anti-immigrant party.

Last year's Congressional debate on reducing legal immigration, led by Alan
Simpson in the Senate and Lamar Smith in the House, didn't help. Neither did the
recently enacted limits on welfare benefits for legal immigrants, which
Republicans supported. And too many Republicans have been quick to fan the
nativist flames, blaming immigrants for taking American jobs and increasing
crime.

Though the vast majority of Hispanic voters were born here, and though many of
them share concerns about illegal immigration, they fear that increasing
antipathy toward newcomers may reflect anti-Hispanic bias. Nearly two-thirds of
Hispanics say they believe that "much of the anti-immigrant sentiment and
immigrant- bashing unfairly focuses on Mexican immigrants," according to a
recent poll by the liberal Southwest Voter Education Project, based in Texas.

Many Hispanic voters in California are still angry about the divisive 1994
gubernatorial campaign in which Republican Gov. Pete Wilson resorted to
demagoguery on the immigration issue.

Republicans may not win a majority of Hispanic votes anytime soon, but they
could recapture the numbers who supported Ronald Reagan but abandoned Bob Dole.

A recent national study of more than 4,800 Hispanic adults conducted by
researchers at the City University of New York identified a generation gap in
party preference that should encourage Republicans.

Although Hispanics in general were much more likely to consider themselves
Democrats than Republicans, those in younger age groups, particularly those 18
to 24 years old, showed far less loyalty to Democrats.

Support for the G.O.P. was stronger among better-educated and higher-income
Hispanics. As Hispanics continue to move into the socioeconomic mainstream, more
of them may gravitate toward the G.O.P. and its philosophy -- provided that the
party doesn't push them away.

For starters, Republican Congressional leaders would do well to resist those who
want to continue the fight to cut back legal immigration.

And rather than focusing so much rhetoric on making English the official
language of the United States, Republicans should support efforts to teach
English to new immigrants and their children. What bilingual education programs
need is not less money but more emphasis on teaching English, which Hispanic
parents overwhelmingly support.

Republicans could also become more involved in helping immigrants become
citizens, taking an active role in citizenship education classes or volunteering
to teach civics and English. Republican officeholders could speak at citizenship
ceremonies, praising immigrants for their desire to become Americans.

The G.O.P. cannot afford to cede Hispanic support to the Democrats. Orange
County, California, proved to be vulnerable this year, and in Florida and
Arizona Hispanics helped tip the state results in the Presidential race. This
should convince Republican leaders that it's time to mend some fences with
Hispanic voters.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company
