
                               1 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Blockade of Workers Enrages Mexican Town

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1457 words

DATELINE: CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico, Sept. 29


For years, as thousands of undocumented workers floated openly across the Rio
Grande each day from this sprawling border metropolis to jobs in El Paso, Tex.,
illegal immigration became a symbol of tolerance, even brotherhood, between the
two cities.

That immigration agents stopped relatively few of the nannies and gardeners and
busboys was taken as a sign that Ciudad Juarez and El Paso understood each
other's needs. Federal law, it seemed, was no match for the forces of economic
interdependence.

Then, on Sept. 19, the United States Border Patrol began what it calls Operation
Blockade. By deploying hundreds of agents along a 20-mile stretch of the
international boundary, the Patrol has all but stopped a human traffic that it
estimated at more than 10,000 people a day.

A Wave of Outrage

While some impetus for the operation may have come from Washington, where the
Clinton Administration has promised a tougher stand on illegal immigration, it
has been received with clamorous applause in the tract homes and shopping malls
that sit beneath El Paso's grey-brown hills.

"People here seem to think that all of their problems -- welfare, health care,
crime, you name it -- have been solved," said Cheryl A. Howard, a sociologist at
the University of Texas El Paso.

Across the border, however, the blockade and the stepped-up immigration checks
that have accompanied it have brought a wave of outrage. Protesters have blocked
the traffic on international bridges. Angry politicians and business executives
are calling for a boycott of El Paso stores.

And in a cross-border community that is often cited as a model for the
cooperation that is supposed to flower if the United States Congress approves a
North American Free Trade Agreement, the conflict has shattered old assumptions
about how well the two cities know each other and how well they get along.

"We were very much brothers," said Isabel Delgado, a jewelry store clerk who was
born in southern Chihuahua State, raised in Ciudad Juarez and has lived in El
Paso for the last 15 years. "But with this, we are going our own ways."

Job Losses Feared

The border crackdown has affected two kinds of migrants. Border Patrol
statistics on apprehensions suggest that it has nearly halted the flow of
illegal undocumented workers who have usually waded, walked or floated on rafts
across the border.

Second, there have been stricter checks to root out Mexicans who walk or drive
across the international bridges here with temporary permits but who then work
without permission. Many of those Mexican border residents have stayed home,
some out of fear and some complaining of harassment.

On the United States side of the border, many people say approval for the
blockade has underscored how the trade agreement has heightened fears of job
losses even in American communities where integration with Mexico is a familiar
reality.

On the Mexican side, the response may have less to do with present circumstances
than with sensitivities over what has been seen as arrogant and unfair treatment
from the United States in the past.

From Confusion to Anger

More broadly, Mexicans say that their confusion at what they perceive as mixed
American signals -- the invitation to join in a long-term economic partnership
on one hand, a wave of anti-immigrant feelings on the other -- has begun turning
to anger.

"Everyone recognizes that they are entirely in their rights to take measures to
stop immigration," said Jose Luis Soto, a 21-year-old college student in Ciudad
Juarez. "But right now? Just when we are about to get into a free-trade
agreement with them? This is a humiliation."

Mexican and American officials both contend that passage of the trade agreement
will ultimately help to raise wages in Mexico and reduce illegal immigration.
The assertion has become central to their arguments for the pact.

At the same time, the Mexican Government has grown unusually open in its
resentment at what it considers the scapegoating of hard-working Mexicans who
sneak into the United States to find better lives.

Until Sept. 19, officers in the Border Patrol's El Paso sector had largely
concentrated their energies on arresting undocumented immigrants after they
crossed into Texas and New Mexico. On average, 800 to 1,000 were apprehended
each day, but most of those who work in the kitchens and gardens and farms of
the area were left alone.

Behind the Blockade

In an interview, the sector's chief Patrol agent, Silvestre Reyes, gave several
reasons for the blockade. After a rash of accusations of abuses against
immigrants and others by El Paso agents, he said, he wanted to find a way to
rebuild the Patrol's community support.

He said illegal immigrants had been responsible for crimes ranging from car
thefts to transvestite prostitution, that members of a Mexican gang were
"terrorizing" one South El Paso neighborhood, and that immigrant beggars and
freelance window-washers had become a terrible nuisance.

Mr. Reyes, a 48-year-old native of the El Paso area whose paternal grandfather
immigrated from Mexico, took up his post on July 4 after nine years in the
Patrol's office in McAllen, Tex. He said he was "appalled" at what he saw.

"People seemed to think that that was all right, that that was the way it has
always been, that that was the way it was always going to be, and that you had
to live with it," he said. "I just don't agree with that."

Approved by Superior

Beyond the local considerations, Mr. Reyes said the acting director of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Border Patrol's parent agency, had
authorized the operation and the $250,000 that it cost in overtime for the 400
to 450 officers involved during the first two weeks.

Mr. Reyes said he now planned to continue the operation indefinitely without a
budget increase.

How widely residents of El Paso approve of the measure is not clear, but a
majority of the telephone calls into the city's newspapers and television
stations favor the boycott. Many of the complaints have come from people who
have been unable to replace their undocumented domestic help.

In interviews, many people in El Paso complained, as many did in Mexico, that
the undocumented migrants were largely honest, hard-working people coming to do
low-paying jobs that American citizens did not want. More of those interviewed,
however, expressed support.

"I don't want them over here," said Isabel Rodriguez, a 22-year-old woman who
was selling baseball caps and "El Paso-Ciudad Juarez" T-shirts from a stand at
the Cielo Vista Mall in El Paso, referring to the undocumented immigrants. "I
know they're human like me, but I don't go trying to wash people's windows when
they don't want me to."

In the huddles of would-be immigrants who gather now in the mornings and just
stare across the Rio Grande levee, there were few printable words for the likes
of Miss Rodriguez.

No Decline in Crime

"The Mexicans over there are the worst," said a 45-year-old immigrant smuggler,
or coyote, who is called the Cowboy. As the Cowboy turned back to his dogeared
comic book (also called "The Cowboy"), Manuel Macias, 42, stepped in to defend
the people he said he had been floating across the river for 15 years.

"These people aren't afraid to work," he said. "They are afraid of what they
will earn here."

Despite the association made by Mr. Reyes and others between undocumented
immigrants and illegal activities, statistics provided by a spokesman for the El
Paso Police Department, Sgt. Bill Pfeil, showed that crime had not declined
significantly since the blockade began.

Yet according to a half-dozen merchants in South El Paso, their sales fell
sharply even before the Juarez Chamber of Commerce, its association of small
industries and political groups, including the country's governing Institutional
Revolutionary Party, began calling on Monday for a boycott.

Henry P. King, the director of a University of Texas institute that studies
small business, said Mexicans were estimated to spend about 30 percent of the
$6.5 billion in retail sales in El Paso each year.

No Takers for a Bet

Indeed, at the weekly poker game presided over by the Mayor of Ciudad Juarez,
Francisco Villareal, a table full of prominent citizens spoke of their ire at
the symbolism of the blockade, of their dismay at what they saw as shallow
solidarity from El Paso, of wives who insisted they not buy their car tires in
Texas.

Mr. Villareal, who has criticized the blockade but worked to calm his town's
fury, counted up the $161 he had lost and laid down a last, hopeful bet.

Double or nothing, he offered, that the blockade would not last a month.

There were no takers.


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Under Operation Blockade, hundreds of agents from the United
States Border Patrol have stopped some 10,000 illegal crossings daily from
Mexico. Agents stationed yesterday near the University of Texas at El Paso made
the once-routine crossing difficult for a group of Mexicans. (Jeff Bowen/El Paso
Times)

Map shows the site of the blockade along the U.S. border with Ciudad Juarez,
Mexico.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 27, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Texas Plans to Sue U.S. Over Illegal Alien Costs

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 5;  National Desk

LENGTH: 894 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, May 26


Following the lead of three other states, Texas announced plans today to sue the
Federal Government to recover costs of public services for illegal immigrants.

In doing so, Gov. Ann W. Richards and other Texas officials appeared to go out
of their way to refrain from casting the lawsuit as a direct attack on the
immigrants themselves, as such moves have often been interpreted elsewhere,
especially in California. Florida has already filed a suit against the Federal
Government to recover money spent on educating, housing, hospitalizing and
jailing illegal immigrants, and California and Arizona, which have already sued
over prison costs, have also announced plans to broaden their lawsuits.

Texas officials said today that the suit was a legal means to correct a glaring
budget imbalance under which many illegal immigrants paid taxes that were
collected by the Federal Government while the state and local governments were
left with the financial obligation for providing services ranging from emergency
medical care to public education.

"While undocumented immigrants make contributions to the Texas economy, they
also contribute substantially to the Federal coffers in the form of income taxes
and Social Security payments, which are matched by businesses," said the
Attorney General of Texas, Dan Morales, who announced the state's intention to
file the lawsuit.

Legal Moves by California

"However," he added, "the costs of delivering services to the immigrants is
imposed upon the state and its communities."

In California, Gov. Pete Wilson accompanied an announcement of plans to file a
similar lawsuit earlier this year with proposals for cutting the undocumented
immigrants' eligibility for some services. He also proposed amending the Federal
Constitution so that their United States-born children would no longer qualify
for American citizenship and such automatic rights as Medicaid and welfare
services.

But here in Texas, which shares a border of almost 1,200 miles with Mexico and
where Governor Richards has been careful not to alienate heavily Hispanic South
Texas with any anti-immigrant comments, the lawsuit is being cast as little more
than a budget dispute with Federal officials.

"This wrangle has been going on for years and years and years and years," Ms.
Richards, who is facing re-election this fall, said in Austin, the state
capital. "There's nothing new. The only thing new is, states have made a
commitment they're going to fight back."

A spokesman for Mr. Morales, Ward Tisdale, said he expected the lawsuit to be
filed within a month or so, but he said the state had not arrived at a final
estimate of how much it spends on services for illegal immigrants.

Last fall, the Texas Office of Immigration and Refugee Affairs calculated that
the overall cost of state and local services was nearly $500 million, though it
said some of that was offset by sales taxes and other indirect taxes paid by an
estimated 550,000 illegal immigrants in Texas. Mr. Tisdale said that estimate of
the net costs might be revised.

Florida Sues for $1.5 Billion

Florida filed a lawsuit last month seeking $1.5 billion, which Gov. Lawton
Chiles, a Democrat, estimated as the rough cost over two years of providing a
range of services to roughly 350,000 illegal immigrants there.

California has also sued, though the only motion currently in Federal court
deals solely with the costs of jailing 17,000 illegal immigrants convicted of
felonies. Governor Wilson wants $377 million in Federal payments, plus another
$1.6 billion to build more prisons. He also has said the state will file
additional lawsuits dealing with education and health-care costs.

Arizona, with a smaller population of illegal immigrants, filed its own lawsuit
earlier this month, seeking $121 million.

In New York, which is generally believed to have the second largest population
of illegal immigrants after California, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has been seriously
considering a lawsuit to recover the costs of a broad range of social services
but has taken no action to file one, a spokesman said.

The various lawsuits' chances of success are unclear. Past attempts in court by
New York and California to get more Federal money for the costs of jailing
illegal immigrants failed. But they were not specifically based upon the legal
theory that such costs were incurred as a direct result of the Federal
Government's failure to enforce its own immigration laws.

Last month, President Clinton asked Congress for $350 million to help states pay
for imprisoning illegal immigrants, but governors of several states quickly said
that would be nowhere near enough money even if Congress agreed to appropriate
it.

Here in Texas, Republicans who have been calling for such lawsuits wasted no
time in condemning Governor Richards, a Democrat, for waiting so long and for
not acting with more determination.

Her Republican opponent this fall, George W. Bush, a son of the former
President, said in a statement issued today, "While other states have moved
forward aggressively to force the Federal Government to either control the
borders or pay the cost for their failure, Governor Richards has hung back and
failed to lead on the issue, leaving Texans no other explanation than her desire
to protect Bill Clinton from further criticism."

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 2, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

California Sues U.S. Over Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section D;  Page 22;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 222 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 1


The State of California is suing the Federal Government, seeking to recoup the
$370 million annual cost of providing health services to illegal immigrants,
Gov. Pete Wilson's office says.

The suit, filed on Tuesday in Federal District Court in Los Angeles, is similar
to a suit filed by the state against the Federal Government in April, seeking $2
billion for the cost of jailing felons who are illegal immigrants.

Sean Walsh, a spokesman for the Governor, said the state was planning to file a
third suit soon, seeking $1.7 billion for the costs of educating the children of
illegal immigrants.

California has an estimated 1.3 million illegal immigrants, the most of any
state.

Mr. Wilson, a Republican running for re-election this year, has focused on the
illegal immigration issue, saying it is unfair that California should foot the
bill for services to illegal immigrants that are mandated by the Federal
Government.

Arizona and Florida have filed similar suits against the Government, and
officials in Texas and New Jersey have said they intend to file, too.

The Governor plans to travel to Washington on June 22 to testify before the
Senate Appropriations Committee as part of his effort to seek $3.1 billion in
Federal funds to help balance the state budget for the next fiscal year, which
starts on July 1.

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 2, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Study Sees Illegal Aliens In New Light

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1083 words


Contrary to the images of Chinese boat people and Central American day laborers
that dominate the public perception of New York State's illegal immigrants, the
three major groups are from Ecuador, Italy and Poland.

The first complete analysis of undocumented immigrants, released yesterday by
the City Planning Department, estimates that the illegal population in New York
State is the second largest in the country, after California's.

The analysis, based on a complex formula that used data from border crossings,
airports and the census, found that among the 18 million residents of New York
are some 490,000 illegal immigrants, with more than 80 percent living in New
York City.

The report's profile of the illegal immigrants in New York differs strikingly
from the national picture. Whereas Mexicans -- the largest group nationally --
and other Central Americans dominate illegal populations in much of the country,
they barely show up in the state statistics. Illegal immigrants in New York are
much more diverse, coming predominantly from Europe, the Caribbean and Latin
America.

The illegal Ecuadorean, Italian and Polish populations are followed closely, and
less surprisingly, by Dominicans, Colombians, Haitians and Jamaicans, the
analysis found. But illegal Chinese immigrants do not even make the top 10, and
illegal Mexicans are not even in the top 20. In fact, contrary even to the
expectations of immigration experts, the typical illegal immigrant in New York
is twice as likely to be an Italian who overstayed a travel visa as a Chinese
migrant smuggled in by gangsters, the analysis concluded. The state is even home
to slightly more illegal Israelis, 13,492, than to illegal Chinese -- 12,655,
according to the report.

"The data show that much of the current debate over immigration is based on
myths and stereotypes rather than facts and figures," an immigration expert at
the American Civil Liberties Union, Lucas Guttentag, said. "I have to say --
Italy! -- now that's news to me."

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has struggled for years to amass
reliable estimates about illegal immigrants. This year the agency's
statisticians drew on more than 100 million records from 11 years. To estimate
how many immigrants slipped undetected across the border, they used the Census
and legalization and arrest statistics. To count those who overstayed travel
visas, they analyzed departure records from airports and ports.

The agency estimated that there were 3.2 million illegal residents in the United
States last fall and estimated that an additional 300,000 arrived in the last
year, with as many as 45,000 settling in New York.

Criticisms of Newcomers

At a time when illegal immigrants are under attack for draining the resources of
an economically troubled country, advocates for immigrants welcomed the new
statistics as fair, moderate appraisals of the illegal population. The figures
were released not by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
distributed them just internally, but by a New York City agency.

"This whole anti-immigrant hysteria is not borne out by the statistics," said
Patrick Young, director of the Central American Refugee Center in Hempstead,
L.I. "Only about 1.25 percent of the U.S. population is undocumented, and if all
the problems of your country are attributable to this minuscule population, then
your system's really in trouble."

A majority of illegal immigrants live in California, followed by New York,
Florida, Texas and Illinois, immigration officials said.

But the proportion of illegal immigrants in California has decreased in the last
six years, from 50 to 40 percent of the national total. Similarly, the
proportion in New York City has increased, to 15 percent from 10 percent. That
is a result of the legalization of illegal immigrants, mostly Mexicans, and
mostly California residents, under the Immigration and Reform Control Act of
1986.

Many experts expect illegal immigrants to follow their legal countrymen in
mirrored proportions. So, since very few Italians number among the legal
immigrants to New York City, the size of the illegal Italian population -- at an
estimated 27,425, the second largest -- caught most experts by surprise. But not
totally.

"It's hardly a shock that New York draws Italians, given the fact that Italians
are the largest ethnic group in the state," a city demographer, Joseph J. Salvo,
said. "And in retrospect it's not that surprising that they are coming
illegally, since the legal pathways for them have pretty much dried up."

Most legal immigrants are sponsored by their immediate family members. But most
Italians immigrated a few generations ago, and their family ties are too distant
for sponsorship.

In contrast, Dominicans, by far the largest legal immigrant population in the
city, more easily sponsor their families to join them. The illegal Dominicans,
however, may be undercounted in the statistics, as some enter the country
through Puerto Rico, posing as Puerto Ricans, Mr. Salvo said.

Poles Apparently Melted In

Presumably, the illegal Ecuadoreans have joined their legal compatriots in
Queens, where, as the seventh largest legal immigrant group in the 1980's, they
settled mostly in Jackson Heights and Corona.

The illegal Poles seem to have melted into the established Polish communities in
Brooklyn, especially Greenpoint, Williamsburg and Borough Park. Polish
immigrants were the seventh largest legal immigrant group to the city last year.

The number of illegal Chinese immigrants represents a small fraction of the
illegal population in New York City. But, strikingly, New York is home to more
than half the illegal Chinese in the country, Mr. Salvo said. In contrast, New
York draws just one-fifth of the legal Chinese immigrants. Similarly, New York
receives a greater proportion of Korean, Indian, Polish and Israeli illegal
immigrants than legal immigrants.

Although their numbers are high, New York receives a smaller proportion of
illegal than legal Dominican, Haitian, Honduran and El Salvadoran immigrants.

The statistics director of the I.N.S., Robert Warren, said it was possible that
illegal Mexicans in New York City were underrepresented in the numbers. The
statistical distribution of immigrants nationwide was based on their patterns of
settlement in 1986, as shown in their applications for legalization. Immigration
officials did not account for possible changes in migration patterns.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "ESTIMATES OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS: Surprise Ingredients in the
Melting Pot" shows estimates of illegal aliens in the United States in the
fiscal year that ended on Sept. 30, 1992. (Sources: Immigration and
Naturalization Service; New York City Department of City Planning) (pg. B8)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Can We Afford So Many Unskilled Immigrants?;
The Mood Turns Ugly

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 292 words


To the Editor:

"The Unfair Immigration Burden" (editorial, Jan. 11) states that Washington has
failed to send enough money to California and other states to offset the cost of
services for illegal immigrants. This situation is clearly unfair and needs to
be redressed.

But in describing the situation, you have borrowed the rhetoric of the
politicians and others who are fanning the flames of racial prejudice. States
have "been inundated," you say, by illegal immigrants. Even if the highest
estimate -- two million in California -- were correct, that would amount to .6
percent of California's population. Does that constitute a flood of human
beings? And who has compiled these figures? You use Gov. Pete Wilson's $2
billion figure uncritically. Where does that number come from? How is it
calculated?

You distinguish between "the taxpayers" and illegal immigrants, as if immigrants
are exempt from the tax when they buy a gallon of gas or any other taxable item.
"Taxpayer" is becoming a buzzword for "native-born citizen."

"California and Florida didn't invite illegal immigrants," you assert. Really?
The ranchers, hotel and restaurant owners, and Beverly Hills homeowners may not
have sent engraved invitations, but they may as well have. The cheap, docile and
intimidated labor force is too attractive to resist. We exploit them, and then
we call them, as you did, a "burden."

If Washington doesn't respond with funds, you say, the political mood will turn
ugly. Too late. It already has. We are on the verge of enacting police-state
legislation, in addition to withholding basic health and human services.

(Msgr.) E. JAMES PETERSEN
Executive Director
California Catholic Conference
Sacramento, Calif., Jan. 13, 1994

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plans Tougher Strategy To Combat Alien Smuggling

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1298 words


Shaken by the stranding of nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants aboard a tramp
steamer off New York last week, after a surge of similar smuggling attempts
along the coasts of Florida and California, Federal officials say they are
developing an arsenal of new counter-smuggling tactics.

Under a sweeping plan being devised by the National Security Council and several
Federal agencies, law-enforcement officials would be armed with some of the
powerful tools now widely used against organized crime but banned in immigration
cases: wiretaps, far-reaching conspiracy statutes and forfeiture laws to seize
money and property obtained through smuggling.

Penalties for smuggling immigrants would be stiffened, too, rising to perhaps a
maximum of 20 years in prison, up from five years now.

Federal officials say they are also urging that intelligence satellites and
other sophisticated monitoring devices that have been used in the fight against
international drug traffickers be brought to bear against immigrant smugglers.

The new strategy is being developed by a working group drawn from the State
Department, Justice Department, Immigration and Naturalization Service and the
Coast Guard and led by the National Security Council. Although the group had
been working on the problem of seaborne smuggling for several months, its
efforts gained new impetus with the grounding off the coast of Queens of the
Golden Venture, which resulted in the deaths of six Chinese immigrants.

A main thrust of the effort, the officials say, is to confront the vicious
Chinese and Vietnamese gangs that dominate the multimillion-dollar immigrant
smuggling business, often holding bewildered newcomers captive in near-slavery
conditions and recruiting some as drug-runners, prostitutes and enforcers.

The effort marks a significant departure in the nation's approach to immigration
enforcement. At least partly because of America's history as a nation of
immigrants, immigration violations have long been regarded as somewhat benign
and Washington officials have been reluctant to authorize harsh tactics against
them.

"The perception has been of somebody just throwing people in the trunk of a car
and driving across the Mexican border, not as organized crime where people were
being hurt," said William J. Kerins, acting director of the immigration
service's anti-smuggling branch. "But it's getting out of control now. We're
facing first-class criminal organizations and we need the proper tools to deal
with them."

Though attention is now focused on Chinese gangs because of the recent arrivals
of boatloads of illegal Chinese immigrants, Mr. Kerins said that equally violent
gangs from Jamaica, Colombia, the Dominican Republic and Nigeria have begun to
intertwine the smuggling of immigrants with drug trafficking, money laundering
and other crimes.

The anti-smuggling plan, to be made public by the Clinton Administration in the
next few days, also calls for a campaign to press foreign governments to try to
block crime syndicates from buying and outfitting smuggling boats as well as
from organizing smuggling operations.

Crackdown on Shipping

Countries that sell ship registrations for worldwide operation with minimal
regulation, sometimes called flags of convenience, will be urged to try to
screen out immigrant smugglers; countries along the ships' routes will be asked
to deny them fuel and provisions and to report them to United States
authorities.

With thousands of miles of open coastline, the United States is an easy place
for smugglers to land. And chastened by years of disappointing attempts to stop
drug smuggling, Federal officials are not entirely sanguine about their chances
of stemming the tide of desperate people streaming out of China's poverty.

"But I think we have to make the effort and see if we can do it," said an
Administration official involved in the planning. "I hope it's more susceptible
to a response than drug smuggling."

Because the surge in oceanbound immigrant smuggling is such a new phenomenon,
immigration enforcement has so far been piecemeal. The Coast Guard is the United
States' main hope of catching smuggling vessels. Each day dozens of patrol boats
and planes criss-cross the Atlantic and Pacific coasts, looking for drugs,
fishing violators, polluters and illegal immigrants.

Need for Intelligence

But patrolling is not the answer, said Rear Adm. Richard A. Appelbaum, chief of
the Coast Guard's law-enforcement and defense operations.

"Intelligence is the key to our ability to efficiently respond," he said.

But intelligence is sorely lacking. The nation's main sources, Federal officials
said, are informers in Taiwan, Hong Kong and Thailand, the principal staging
areas for the smugglers, and on the streets of New York's Chinatown, which
officials say is the final destination of most of the illegal Chinese
immigrants.

In developing the new strategy, immigration officials say, other agencies have
been supportive of a proposal to copy the practices of the Drug Enforcement
Administration and the Federal Bureau of Investigation in tracking cars, planes
and boats with a device known as a transponder. The device emits high-frequency
signals and can be used to plot the exact geographic coordinates of a vessel as
it moves across the ocean.

The use of satellites with cameras and other surveillance gear, in conjunction
with increased intelligence gathering by agents, is also under consideration,
Federal officials said.

Immigration officials have requested that the Central Intelligence Agency join
in the effort against immigrant smuggling. But opponents argue that the agency's
resources are already stretched thin.

Question of Priorities

"You have to ask, 'What are you not going to be doing if you are doing this?' "
an Administration official said.

As the United States plans measures to counter the smugglers, Chinese Government
officials say they have reinforced border patrols in Fujian Province, the region
of poor farmers and fishermen from which most of the illegal Chinese immigrants
have been coming.

But they accuse the United States of encouraging migration by adopting a liberal
policy of political asylum for Chinese citizens since the uprising at Tiananmen
Square in 1989. Many of the proposals will require Congressional action.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, the Brooklyn Democrat who heads the House
Subcommittee on Crime and Criminal Justice, said Congress was likely to endorse
them.

"Going after the gangs would indeed make a difference," he said. "It's not going
to end illegal immigration from China, but I think it's likely to do some real
good."

A Growing Problem

American officials first became aware of the phenomenon of Chinese men and women
being smuggled into the United States by sea 22 months ago, when a trawler with
the prosaic name of I-Mao #306 appeared off the coast of Los Angeles with 132
illegal immigrants packed in its holds.

But the problem did not begin to attract attention at the highest levels in
Washington until the last few weeks when six smuggling boats were seized, one
off Jacksonville, Fla., one off San Diego, three off San Francisco and finally
the 230-foot Golden Venture last Sunday.

In several cases, Vietnamese gang members have helped land Chinese immigrants on
American shores by sailing smaller boats to rendezvouswith mother ships, Mr.
Kerins said.  Federal officials working on the new strategy say that stiffer
sentences should not only make smugglers think twice about bringing in illegal
immigrants, but that they will provide an incentive for low-ranking members of
the criminal organizations to implicate superiors and an incentive for
prosecutors to invest time in complicated investigations.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK;
Fixing Immigration

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1143 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


The human cargo washes up on America's shores -- Chinese bodies, Haitian bodies.
Congress considers narrowing the gateway to liberty. Anti-immigration groups
argue passionately that there is no more room at the American inn.

Will the United States always remain a refuge for the tired, the poor and the
tempest-tossed? Or will the nation move, as Germany did last week, to restrict
its policies of political asylum -- "to shut this traffic down," in the words of
New York's top immigration official?

On the day after the Golden Venture spilled nearly 300 refugees into New York
City's waters, discussions of quick fixes took on an increased urgency in
Congress, the Justice Department and the White House. The Clinton Administration
has ordered a review of immigration policy aimed at figuring out how to repair a
broken system. In the National Security Council and Congress, those who want to
tighten the asylum laws are talking about detaining and expelling illegal aliens
upon arrival, and cracking the international cartels that smuggle thousands of
people into the United States.

History suggests these methods are no more likely to work than past efforts that
have run up against political and practical limits. The two most ambitious
recent efforts to control immigration -- a 1986 law aimed at undocumented
workers and a Bush Administration decision to intercept Haitian boat people --
were at best only partially successful.

Of Borders and Barricades

The United States cannot board and search every suspect ship on the open seas,
erect a police barricade on its borders, or shut down every sweatshop employing
illegal aliens.

And the legal fixes proposed against future Golden Ventures may run afoul of an
important psychological and political bedrock.

"It's been our tradition to protect these people," said Stephanie Marks, a
lawyer representing asylum seekers. "If you ever wanted to see a picture of
huddled masses yearning to breathe free, it was on the front page of today's New
York Times."

Does the United States really want to stop oppressed people from coming to
America, or return them to totalitarian China, or to Liberia with its murderous
civil war? In the case of the Chinese, the answer has been explicit: let them
come.

After the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, the Bush Administration and Congress
sought to make immigration from China easier. The Immigration and Naturalization
Service enforced regulations and administrative decisions intended to smooth the
passage of Chinese dissidents, students and ultimately anyone who felt repressed
by Chinese population-control policies.

"The Bush Administration encouraged this," a senior Immigration and
Naturalization Service official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said
of the Golden Venture situation. "They sent a signal: If you get to the U.S., no
matter in what manner, we'll accept your presence here."

After Tiananmen, the United States began smuggling political dissidents out of
China through underground networks, in some cases using the Central Intelligence
Agency's expertise. The pathways to freedom for dissidents fleeing repression
are still open, and are being used by people fleeing poverty as well.

The routes out of China are now used profitably by "snakeheads," as the Chinese
call the smuggling gangs that charge tens of thousands of dollars to bring an
immigrant into the United States, where the immigrant often works off the debt
in a sweatshop in a form of indentured servitude.

Now, the Golden Venture grounding has generated a new round of demands, often
couched in humanitarian terms, for a crackdown. But as a practical matter, this
would mean either spending vast sums of money to police the seas and skies or a
cold-hearted decision to send Chinese people seeking freedom back home.

"We might see accelerated exclusion hearings as well as automatic and prolonged
detention, the theory being if you mistreat these individuals you will send a
signal to others not to come," said Arthur Helton, director of the Refugee
Project at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York. "We should be
sure we do not extinguish the opportunity for genuine refugees to receive
asylum. We should work toward a system that balances immigration control and the
human rights of refugees."

Creating Exceptions

The Bush Administration also created important exceptions in immigration and
asylum law for Chinese citizens who want to have more than one child. As a
consequence, 85 percent of those seeking asylum in the United States from China
since 1989 have been granted it by immigration courts and hearing officers, and
those denied asylum have won new hearings, said Duke Austin, an I.N.S.
spokesman. Mr. Austin said 3,440 Chinese immigrants applied for political asylum
in 1992; 89 were deported, usually for crimes committed while in the United
States.

Today, thousands of provincial Chinese know that the United States opened a wide
loophole in its political asylum policies in 1989 by providing asylum to those
who say they are escaping Chinese population control efforts, which can impose
sterilization or abortion on couples to limit them to one child.

"What you have is an ideological decision made by the Bush and Reagan
Administrations based on their attitudes toward population control and
politics," said George High, executive director of the Center for Immigration
Studies, which supports restrictions on immigration.

The push to restrict immigration comes as the rigid, cold-war asylum policies of
the past have undergone an incomplete reform. From the 1950's until 1989, United
States asylum policy could be reduced to a simple maxim: Cuba, yes, Haiti, no.
People fleeing Communist dictatorships had an open door; people fleeing
right-wing regimes did not.

A Backlog of Claims

With the end of the cold war, the ideological glue that held that policy
together evaporated. Nothing coherent has replaced it except a backlog of claims
that have suffocated the immigration bureaucracy. Most asylum-seekers, with or
without legitimate claims, get on with their lives while the enforcement
machinery staggers along.

To send a signal to future passengers on Golden Ventures still at sea, the
immigration service sent the Chinese immigrants from the ill-fated ship to
detention centers far from New York, to areas of the country where detention
cells are more readily available and human-rights lawyers less so. There was a
practical aspect to this: Not only is every bed for detaining illegal aliens in
the New York area filled, the deportation system is next to unworkable.

"I have 62,000 people under deportation proceedings in this district," said
William Slattery, the ranking I.N.S. officer in New York. "I deport 750 a year.
At this rate it would take me 80 years to clear the system out."


LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 19, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

President Chooses an Expert To Halt Smuggling of Aliens

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


President Clinton moved today to put his stamp on immigration policy, appointing
an expert to head the Immigration and Naturalization Service and announcing new
initiatives intended to end the smuggling of illegal aliens.

Mr. Clinton nominated Doris M. Meissner, who was a Deputy Associate Attorney
General under President Jimmy Carter and an Acting Commissioner of Immigration
under President Ronald Reagan, to head the agency. The 51-year-old Ms. Meissner
has most recently been director of immigration policy at the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace.

In announcing her selection, Mr. Clinton said a chief goal for Ms. Meissner
would be to insure that the United States does not "lose control of our
borders."

The Administration also announced a streamlined policy aimed at reducing the
number of illegal aliens who are smuggled into the United States. The practice
drew international attention last week when a tramp steamer carrying about 300
illegal Chinese immigrants ran aground off the coast of Queens, stranding many
and resulting in the drowning death of six passengers who had attempted to swim
to shore.

Such schemes are "a shameful practice of unspeakable degradation and unspeakable
exploitation," Mr. Clinton said. He pledged to speed up the processing of
illegal aliens who are caught while being smuggled into the country and to
strengthen efforts to catch the organizers of smuggling rings.

Administration officials said legislation to meet these goals was expected to be
introduced in two weeks, after Ms. Meissner has had an opportunity to review the
recommendations, made by the White House, the I.N.S., the National Security
Council and other agencies.

Immigration policy experts praised Ms. Meissner's knowledge of the subject and
said her appointment represented a departure from the previous practice of
treating the commissioner's job as a political appointment.

"She's solid," said Rick Swartz, an immigration-policy expert in Washington.
"Doris is probably the most experienced choice that Clinton could have made."

Arthur Helton, an immigration expert for the Lawyers International Committee for
Human Rights, said: "There were many inside the agency who were worried that a
strong antagonist to their interests would be appointed. There were others
outside who were concerned that it would be someone whose principal
qualification was as a good fund-raiser in the course of an election. None of
these worries panned out with the choice of Doris Meissner."

The Administration has only recently begun to integrate its foreign policy
operation with immigration issues. Tim Wirth, the former Colorado Senator, was
recently appointed to a new position as an undersecretary of state in charge of
a grab bag of global issues, including drugs and immigration.

The Clinton Administration's new immigration policy, officials said, is expected
to include proposals to toughen penalties for smuggling to as much as 20 years
in prison, to allow racketeering laws to be applied to smuggling syndicates, to
expand the ability of the Government to seize the assets of immigration
smugglers and to expedite the admission or deportation of aliens seeking entry
into the United States.

Streamlining the Process

If such legislation is passed, officials said, the amount of time it takes for
aliens to have their cases considered will shrink from as long as 18 months to
as little as 30 days.

"With this plan, the United States signals its abhorrence of the trafficking in
human beings for profit and its determination to combat this illegal activity,"
Mr. Clinton said. "At the same time, we reaffirm our commitment to protect bona
fide refugees."

But Mr. Clinton would not specify the price tag for such a strategy, which would
require, at a minimum, a significant increase in immigration workers.

Mr. Clinton stressed today that the Administration review had begun some time
ago, when Government agencies had first become aware of a pattern of organized
smuggling that brought illegal aliens from China, El Salvador, Guatemala and
Haiti.

But it was clearly the most recent episodes of alien smuggling -- especially the
grounding of the Golden Venture steamer off Queens -- that prompted today's
announcement.

"Events in recent weeks have brought into focus the tremendous economic, human
and social impact immigration has on our country," said Attorney General Janet
Reno, who oversees the immigration agency. "We have much work to do in this area
to insure that those who truly deserve political asylum are granted it, but
those who break the laws of this country are given the strictest possible
penalties."

                             --------------------


House in Queens Is Raided

Immigration agents found 22 illegal Chinese aliens being held in Bayside,
Queens, in an early morning raid yesterday, and eight members of an Asian gang
were charged with smuggling them into the United States, law-enforcement
officials said.

The illegal aliens were part of a larger group that had traveled by ship from
Asia and landed near San Francisco on June 2. They had flown to Kennedy
International Airport from Los Angeles and were being held at 230-36 57th Road
in Bayside when they were apprehended, the officials said.

William S. Slattery, the district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in New York, said the timing of the raid, on the same day as President
Clinton's announcement of a crackdown on the smuggling of illegal aliens, was a
coincidence.

The 22 illegal immigrants, 14 men and 8 women, were apparently being held by
gang members until they could pay the $30,000 each had agreed to pay for
passage. They will be held by the I.N.S. or released to family members until
deportation proceedings begin.

The illegal aliens make up the third such group to be found in the New York area
in a month. On May 24, 57 undocumented immigrants were found in a Jersey City
warehouse; on June 8, 13 more were found in the basement of a house in Sunset
Park in Brooklyn.

The eight people arrrested yesterday were charged with smuggling illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Presideent Clinton and Vice President Al Gore with Doris M.
Meissner at the White House yesterday after she was nominated to be the next
Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 12, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Chinatown Gang Leader to Be Returned to U.S.

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 945 words


Guo Liang Chi, who authorities say was the leader of the Chinatown gang most
deeply involved in the smuggling of illegal immigrants from China, agreed in a
Hong Kong court yesterday to a request by the United States for his extradition.

Federal investigators acknowledge that they are less interested in prosecuting
Mr. Guo than in hearing what he has to say. Two law-enforcement officials,
speaking on condition of anonymity, said yesterday that Mr. Guo had agreed to an
arrangement under which he will provide information about Asian businessmen who
run alien-smuggling rings and other organized crime operations. In exchange,
prosecutors are expected to seek leniency for him in court, but the officials
said they did not know the details of the agreement.

Among other things, American officials believe that Mr. Guo, who is expected to
arrive in New York within days, may give them new information on links between
the smugglers and government officials in Taiwan and in mainland China.
Law-enforcement officials have long suspected that some corrupt officials in
those countries are involved in the illegal-alien trade, though it is not clear
whether American officials believe that such corruption involves any high-level
officials.

Widely known by his street name, Ah Kay, the 28-year-old Mr. Guo faces Federal
charges that he ordered or conspired in six murders, a series of kidnappings and
a scheme to smuggle immigrants as head of the Fuk Ching, an unusually violent
gang that he ran for several years before it was dismantled by a wave of arrests
last August.

Smuggling operations, Federal investigators say, are run by loose networks of
businessmen who rely on associates on both sides of the Pacific Ocean to help
recruit, transport and collect a $30,000 fee from each of the immigrants, who
often work at low-paying jobs for years to pay their debts. Among those
associates, investigators say, are businessmen and government officials in
Taiwan and local police in China's Fujian Province.

A spokesman for the Chinese Consulate in New York denied that his government
tolerated the smuggling of illegal immigrants. He cited an official Chinese news
release in February about the sentencing of 18 smugglers in Fujian Province,
where the vast majority of illegal Chinese immigrants come from. Efforts to
reach Taiwanese officials last night were unsuccessful.

Chauncey Parker, the Assistant United States Attorney prosecuting the Fuk Ching
case, declined to discuss whether any plea bargain agreement was reached with
Mr. Guo, whose name is sometimes spelled Kwok Ling-kay. But three other
officials said Mr. Parker traveled to Hong Kong in February to work out the
terms of an agreement with Mr. Guo. Robert S. Gelbard, Assistant Secretary of
State for International Narcotics, was in Hong Kong at the same time.

A law-enforcement official who spoke on condition of anonymity said yesterday
that while Mr. Guo could face a life sentence if convicted of the charges
against him, that is expected to be reduced to 10 to 15 years in prison if he
fully cooperates. Mr. Guo was also induced to cooperate, the official said, by
the suggestion that leniency might be shown toward his father, Guo Qi Wu, who
was charged with kidnapping and smuggling aliens in the Fuk Ching case.

Of the 19 gang members indicted in that case, 7 have apparently pleaded guilty.
Mr. Parker said terms of the arrangements with those defendants, including their
pleas, were not public.

The last Chinatown gang leader to be arrested in Hong Kong at the request of the
United States was Johnny Eng, accused of leading the Flying Dragons. After he
was caught in 1989, Mr. Eng fought extradition for nearly three years before his
appeals were exhausted. Finally returned to New York City, he was convicted of
drug smuggling charges in a Federal court in Brooklyn in December 1992.

Some Federal officials had expected similar resistance from Mr. Guo.

Experienced Defense Lawyer

"Ah Kay is a fighter," said one law-enforcement official. Referring to China's
impending resumption of control over Hong Kong, he added: "I even wondered if he
would wait until 1997 and hope the Chinese would refuse to turn him over."

Instead, seven months after he was arrested beside a street vendor's stall, Mr.
Guo signed a consent form at a Hong Kong magistrates court yesterday, nodding
briefly when an interpreter asked him if he agreed to return to the United
States, said Crown Counsel Roger McMeans. Li Xinghua, an associate who was
arrested with Mr. Guo last August, did the same.

A court-appointed Hong Kong lawyer for Mr. Guo said at an initial hearing last
fall that he was destitute, but he later hired an experienced defense lawyer. In
New York, officials said, Mr. Guo has hired Gerald L. Shargel, a well-known
defense lawyer. Mr. Shargel did not return a telephone call yesterday.

Law-enforcement officials had initially suspected that Mr. Guo might have helped
organize the smuggling voyage of the Golden Venture, which ran aground off
Queens last June. Ten passengers died trying to swim ashore.

But subsequent investigations have so far failed to tie him to the operation.
His extradition schedule was not related to Federal Judge Reena Raggi's decision
last Friday to reject the plea bargain agreements for eight so-called enforcers
on board the ship, agreements that she said were too lenient.

Officials will also presumably question Mr. Guo for any light he can shed on the
murder of his two brothers and two others at a house in Teaneck, N.J., last May.
The authorities believe the deaths were the result of fighting among factions in
Mr. Guo's gang.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Guo Liang Chi, said to be leader of a Chinatown gang deeply
involved in the smuggling of illegal immigrants from China, leaving a court in
Hong Kong yesterday after agreeing to a request for his extradition to the
United States. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 6, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Smuggling Ring's 'Mother Ship' Sought in Pacific

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 493 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 5


Although nearly 1,700 illegal immigrants from China have been picked up on the
West Coast this year, Coast Guard officials said this week that they had reached
only "the tip of the iceberg" of an organized human-smuggling ring.

Since Thursday, the Coast Guard has been searching the Pacific for a mother ship
that they believe carried 300 illegal immigrants from China to two small fishing
boats that tried to slip into California harbors.

The immigrants were arrested and boats were seized at two harbors south of San
Francisco on Wednesday. It was the latest effort to smuggle Chinese refugees
into the United States.

Tansfers Offshore

"There are many vessels out there, both in the Atlantic and the Pacific," said
David Ilchert, regional director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Authorities said they were sure that a larger ship had brought the immigrants
from Fujian province because the fishing boats were too small for the long ocean
voyage. They believe the transfers took place hundreds of miles offshore.

The Coast Guard says that the mother ship may be one of three believed to be in
international waters off the California coast waiting to ferry their human cargo
to shore. One ship was spotted about 200 miles off Monterey Bay on Wednesday.

"A lot of this is still being pieced together," Mr. Ilchert said.

But Mr. Ilchert described the smuggling operation as fairly large and well
organized. The Federal Bureau of Investigation and the local police were looking
into a possible link between an Asian gang and three of the cases.

"Clearly, there exists an organized structure, but the specific identification
remains is question and is being investigated," said Rick Smith, spokesman for
the F.B.I. in San Francisco.

The immigrants caught aboard the fishing boats are in custody awaiting
deportation hearings. It is not known if any had asked for political asylum, Mr.
Ilchert said.

The first fishing boat, the 65-foot Angel, was seized after it docked at its
home port of Moss Landing, about 90 miles south of San Francisco, early
Wednesday morning. About 180 people were onboard the battered, wood-hulled
former Navy vessel, he said.

Several hours later, the 46-foot Pelican, a steel trawler also based at Moss
Landing, was stopped as it tried to leave Pillar Point Harbor near Half Moon
Bay, about 30 miles south of San Francisco. About 120 people were on board.

Crew Members Arrested

Two crew members from the Pelican, one from the Angel and a fourth man waiting
onshore with a van were arrested. The authorities planned to charge each with
conspiracy and alien smuggling, said Assistant United States Attorney Steven
Gruel. If convicted, each faces up to 10 years in prison and a $500,000 fine.

The passengers, packed into the hulls of the boats, said that they had left
Fujian province 40 days ago and that food and water had run out when they were
still far offshore, officials said.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 10, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Quest for Freedom Falls Short;
Alien-Smuggling Suspect Eluded Immigration Net

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words


Deported as an illegal alien and a felon, a man who the authorities say is a
major smuggler of Chinese immigrants sneaked back into the United States, was
arrested and then used a common ploy to stay in the country: He applied for
political asylum.

The man, Guo Liang Chi, 27, is believed to have participated in the smuggling
attempt that ended early Sunday, when a rusty freighter ran aground off the
Queens shore with nearly 300 Chinese aboard. The authorities say Mr. Guo heads
the Fuk Ching gang, which has forced payments from thousands of Chinese
immigrants after they were brought illegally to the United States.

Mr. Guo's success in finding a back door into the United States illustrates the
helplessness of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in coping with the
wave of new arrivals under the Government's own complex and sometimes
contradictory regulations.

Plea for Asylum

In October 1991, only weeks before he was to be deported for a second time, Mr.
Guo, whose nickname is Ah Kay, asked for asylum and entered a long, drawn-out
process that prevented him from being expelled. His case remains on appeal,
although the police say Mr. Guo fled to China in January during a bloody gang
struggle.

"These people are all pleading for political asylum, and it is very difficult to
remove them," said Daniel Molerio, assistant district director of the I.N.S. in
New York. "We are unable to cope with all the new arrivals because of the way
the system is set up."

The problem of immigrant smuggling has prompted the establishment of a Federal
network to track the rusting freighters that carry human cargo. Immigration
officials say at least 20 ships are now being watched by the authorities,
including several ships in ports in Hong Kong and elsewhere.

Ship Was Monitored

The network had been watching the Golden Venture, the ship that ran aground,
since April, when it picked up reports of nearly 200 Chinese immigrants stranded
in Mombasa, Kenya. But officials lost track of the ship somewhere in the
Atlantic, where it twice failed to rendezvous with smaller ships to carry the
immigrants ashore.

Wayne R. McKenna, the coordinator of a Federal Chinese-smuggling task force,
declined to discuss the details of how the authorities tracked the Golden
Venture once it left Mombasa or where they lost track of it. But he acknowledged
that its course was unknown as it neared the United States.

The authorities say they have little chance of stopping the smuggling ships --
even if, as in the case of the Golden Venture, they know they are coming --
because of international law and the Government's system of granting asylum to
refugees.

"There are vessels on their way now," Mr. McKenna said. "But what can I do? What
can I do to possibly stop these vessels on the seas?"

Many of the difficulties for the authorities, and the loopholes for the
immigrants already onshore, can be seen in the case of Mr. Guo, the reputed
smuggling kingpin. And among the thousands of other immigrants finding
protection by pleas for political asylum is Sheik Omar Abdul Rahman, some of
whose followers were implicated in the World Trade Center bombing.

Immigration officials believe Mr. Guo entered the United States for the first
time on Sept. 1, 1980, shortly before his 15th birthday, although they can not
be certain because he has used more than a dozen aliases.

Sgt. Douglas Lee of the Major Case Squad in the New York City Police Department
said he first came across Mr. Guo in the mid-1980's, when the slight, hard-eyed
young man emerged as a rising force in the narcotics trade of the Fuk Ching,
then a relatively minor gang in Chinatown.

First Deportation

Mr. Guo was convicted of attempted grand larceny in March 1986, in what Sergeant
Lee said was probably an effort to extract protection money from a merchant, a
common activity of Chinatown gangs. Sentenced to 18 to 54 months in jail, Mr.
Guo served nearly two and a half years and was deported to China in 1988.

But it did not take him long to come back. Mr. Guo was caught sneaking over the
border from Mexico into Texas one night in early 1989, a route on which he has
since arranged passage for thousands of illegal aliens, according to immigration
officials. Stopped by immigration agents, he was released after 24 hours,
apparently because he was carrying false papers and the agents did not realize
that he had already been deported.

Back in New York, Mr. Guo quickly reconnected with his gang, the Fuk Ching,
Sergeant Lee said. When the gang became involved in a struggle with a rival
group, the Green Dragons, a tip led the police to Mr. Guo in an apartment in
Flushing, Queens, where he was arrested in mid-1989.

The police did not have enough evidence to convict him of any gang-related
crime, and Mr. Guo was turned over to the I.N.S. A Federal court in Brooklyn
found him guilty of criminal re-entry to the United States in September 1989.

But Mr. Guo was allowed to remain at large while his deportation proceedings
slowly ground forward. During that time, apparently using false papers, Mr. Guo
has left and re-entered the country several times and his role in the lucrative
trade of smuggling aliens grew steadily.

Case on Appeal

In October 1991, only weeks before he was to be deported a second time, Mr. Guo
played the card that thousands of other Chinese immigrants have been told to
use: he applied for political asylum. His application effectively suspended the
deportation, and his case is still on appeal.

Although Mr. Molerio, the I.N.S. official, said Mr. Guo was only one of several
known smuggling operators, the police have identified him as a gang leader who
is unafraid of ordering his lieutenants to use violence against rival gangs. The
killing of his two brothers in Teaneck, N.J. on May 24 -- apparently in
retaliation for the January killings -- has apparently weakened his position.

"It was like losing his right hand and his left hand," said one law-enforcement
official who closely follows Mr. Guo's activity.

Mr. Guo is now believed by the police to be in Fujian Province, where so many of
his compatriots set out on the long voyage for the United States. Sergeant Lee
said he is probably continuing his smuggling operations by fax and telephone,
and living with a slew of bodyguards to protect him from his enemies.

Meantime, Mr. Guo keeps several apartments in New York City, including one in
downtown Manhattan near the Holland Tunnel and another on Sands Street in
Brooklyn, law-enforcement officials said.

Police detectives who specialize in Asian gangs say they believe Mr. Guo has
been backed financially by the Fujian American Association, whose headquarters
are on East Broadway in Chinatown. Relatives of kidnapped hostages have been
asked to drop ramsom money at the association's headquarters, the detectives
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lin Jiantong is one of 45 passengers of the freighter Golden
Venture being held at a detention center in Winchester, Va. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

12 Indicted on Charges of Smuggling Aliens

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 487 words


The captain and the 10-member crew of the Golden Venture, the ship that ran
aground off Queens two weeks ago with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants
aboard, were indicted yesterday on conspiracy and smuggling charges.

A 12th man who the authorities said acted as an enforcer for the organizers of
the ill-fated voyage was also charged with trying to sneak the would-be
immigrants into the United States, according to the indictment brought by
Zachary W. Carter, United States Attorney in Brooklyn.

The ship's wreck, and the death of 10 of the immigrants who jumped overboard and
tried to swim ashore, has put a spotlight on immigration policy and the wave of
illegal immigrants from China. In the last year, tens of thousands of such
aliens have risked their lives aboard rusting freighters like the Golden
Venture, operated by organized-crime syndicates that exact up to $35,000 from
each would-be immigrant for the passage.

12 Held Without Bail

The men indicted yesterday included Amil Humuntal Lumban Tobing, the ship's
captain, 10 crew members, and Kin Sin Lee, a man who the authorities said was
paid to help transport the human cargo. The 12 men have been held without bail
since they were found aboard the ship on June 6, and are expected to be
arraigned within 10 days, said William Muller, executive assistant to the United
States Attorney.

According to the indictment, Mr. Lee argued with the captain and locked him
below deck when plans to transfer the passengers to smaller boats to ferry them
ashore failed in the final weeks of the four-and-a-half month voyage. Mr. Lee
then steered the ship toward New York himself, the indictment says.

But the court papers did not untangle much more of the mystery about exactly how
the voyage was organized, and who sponsored it. One investigator said yesterday
that Mr. Lee was probably only one of several enforcers aboard the ship, with
the rest either escaping or hiding among the other aliens who are being held in
detention centers by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

But the investigator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said he and his
colleagues were still unsure of how many organizers were involved in the
makeshift syndicate that organized the voyage. One of them was Guo Liang Chi,
the reputed head of the Fuk Ching gang, who is believed to have fled to China
several months ago, he said.

Yesterday, the 12 men were indicted for one count of conspiracy and five counts
of smuggling each. The smuggling charges are punishable by up to five years in
prison for each alien involved, and the conspiracy charge is also punishable by
up to five years in prison. However, as smuggling immigrants from China by plane
and by ship has grown in recent years, few have been sentenced to more than
three years in prison.

Mr. Muller said he could not elaborate on the investigation beyond the charges
listed in the indictment.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 30, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Group's Trade in Bodies Reaped Wealth and Power

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 875 words


Police raids in New York and Hong Kong over the weekend took aim at a Chinese
gang that has become New York City's most powerful Asian crime organization,
gaining wealth and influence through the smuggling of Chinese immigrants,
investigators say.

The gang, known as the Fuk Ching, has been operating in New York for several
years, but came under increased police scrutiny recently because of its role in
helping to organize the ill-fated voyage of a tramp steamer that ran aground off
Queens in June with nearly 300 Chinese men and women aboard.

The leader of the gang, Guo Liang Chi, 27, a convicted extortionist who is
widely known as Ah Kay, was among 14 members or associates of the gang taken
into custody. Mr. Guo was arrested in Hong Kong.

Mr. Guo, who first entered the United States as an illegal immigrant at the age
of 15, had left New York early this year as warfare broke out in the ranks of
the Fuk Ching (pronounced fook-ching) over control of the profits from the
smuggling of immigrants.

Federal investigators and New York Police detectives say the extent of Mr. Guo's
influence over the gang after he went abroad is unclear. But they believe he
remained an important figure in the financing and coordination of shipments of
illegal immigrants, both by sea and air. The gang itself may have become
somewhat fragmented, the authorities say, but its estimated 25 to 30 members and
dozens of associates remain deeply involved in human smuggling and other crimes.

The gang takes its name from Fujian Province in southern China, a coastal area
that has been the source of most of the illegal Chinese immigrants landing in
the United States in recent years. The name, Fuk Ching, translates as Young
People of Fujian.

Like other Asian gangs, the Fuk Ching are extremely secretive and operate in
small groups or cells, the police say. Perhaps their greatest asset is their
language, a dialect that is colorful and complex, unintelligible to most other
Chinese and, of course, to the police.

No one knows how many Chinese immigrants the Fuk Ching has helped spirit into
this country, but the police say the numbers run into the thousands, with each
immigrant paying $25,000 to $30,000 for passage. Initially, the Fuk Ching, like
some of the half dozen or so other Asian gangs in New York, worked as
contractors for the businessmen in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan who ran the human
smuggling operations, the authorities say. Now, they say, it takes shares in the
profitable syndicates that put the smuggling ventures together.

The main role of the gangs, the authorities say, remains the same. They take
charge of the immigrants on arrival and hold them in bare apartments, basements
and warehouses until friends or relatives pay the smuggling fees. But as
financiers of the smuggling operations, their cut is bigger.

Mistreatment of Immigrants

Many immigrants have been beaten and threatened with death when the money for
their trips has been slow in coming, the police say. Others have been roughed up
for no apparent reason.

In June, the police found eight Chinese immigrants being held in a house in
Sheepshead Bay after a 21-year-old Chinese woman escaped by climbing out a
window as her captors slept. Several men, she said, had forced her into a car
shortly after her arrival without documents at Kennedy International Airport,
taken her to the house in Sheepshead Bay and raped her repeatedly. Two men in
the group said they were beaten every day.

Like other Asian gangs in New York, the police say, the Fuk Ching also make
money by shaking down businesses in Chinatown for protection money, providing
guards for illegal gambling houses and brothels and by serving as couriers and
bodyguards for drug dealers.

"But they prefer smuggling people," said one Federal investigator who spoke on
condition of anonymity, "because it's very lucrative and the risk is much lower.
The worst they can get for an immigration violation is five years in jail. If
they get caught with a package of heroin, it's much worse. They could go away
for 20 years."

Pressure From the President

Until the tramp steamer, the Golden Venture, ran aground off Queens and 10
people died, the chances of a smuggler getting caught or even receiving a
five-year sentence were slim because investigators focused on crimes that
carried bigger penalties. But President Clinton has now ordered the Justice
Department to apply racketeering statutes, which provide for stiffer penalties,
to human cargo smugglers.

Law-enforcement officials said the Fuk Ching leader, Mr. Guo, would be charged
with ordering the murders of two subordinates, gunned down while they were
getting telephone beepers in an electronics shop on Allen Street in Chinatown in
early January, in the start of the battle for control of the human cargo
business.

In April, two of Mr. Guo's allies were wounded by gunmen as they sat in a parked
van on a darkened street in Bridgeport, Conn. A little more than a month later,
one of the men wounded in Bridgeport and two of Mr. Guo's brothers were shot to
death in what the police described as a gang "safe house" in Teaneck, N.J.
Another of Mr. Guo's supporters died in the Teaneck shooting and one other was
wounded.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Kidnappings Linked to Fall Of Big Gang

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 963 words


A series of violent kidnappings by Chinatown street criminals in recent weeks
appears to be a brutal side effect of turmoil within the Fuk Ching, the gang
most deeply involved in smuggling illegal immigrants from China, experts on
Asian organized crime and law-enforcement officials say.

After the arrests of the gang's leaders in a Federal crackdown in late August, a
leadership vacuum has allowed independent groups in the Fujianese community to
take over criminal activities once controlled by the Fuk Ching, the officials
say.

"It's frightening," said Peter Kwong, director of the Asian-American studies
program at Hunter College. "It's lower-level guys doing this stuff. You get the
feeling that they're sort of desperate and out of control."

In the last three weeks, at least six kidnappings involving Fujianese victims in
the New York metropolitan area have been reported to the police or the Federal
Bureau of Investigation. Each case has also involved Fujianese suspects who, the
police say, are not current members of the Fuk Ching gang, but operate in
unaligned groups that the police sometimes call posses.

In some cases, the suspects abducted illegal immigrants or their relatives to
collect for smugglers the balance of the $30,000 fee for passage to the United
States from China, the police said.

"With the Fuk Ching gone, the smugglers are hiring these guys to collect old
debts," said a detective who has investigated several kidnappings. "But
sometimes they're just going after people who look vulnerable."

Gang in Spotlight

After a ship crammed with Chinese immigrants ran aground off Queens in June, the
Fuk Ching gang's role in landing and collecting payments from illegal immigrants
came under increased scrutiny.

Internal feuding over the income from smuggling split the leadership of the gang
early this year, but investigators say the arrests in late August of 18 gang
members -- a significant portion of the membership -- has left the Fujianese
community in the New York region wide open.

Among those arrested was Guo Liang Chi, the Fuk Ching leader widely known as Ah
Kay. He was captured in Hong Kong and faces extradition from the United States.

Last Wednesday night, nearly 100 F.B.I. agents and police officers raided a
building on East Broadway in Chinatown where kidnappers were believed to be
holding a 52 year-old man who had been abducted a week earlier from a restaurant
in Massapequa, L.I., and held for $35,000 ransom. Investigators said the
kidnapping was related to a smuggling debt.

The victim, Zhou Tianhua, was repeatedly and severely beaten in captivity, once
attacked so ferociously that he was saved from death only by the intervention of
the kidnappers' leader, according to the complaint filed in Federal court.

The victim was found by F.B.I. agents and the police in what the court papers
described as a social club and gambling house, which the agents staked out while
the victim's brother went inside to deliver the $35,000 ransom.

The brother, Zhou Aiming, was told he would have to pay even more before the
victim would be released, and moments later, the agents and police moved in.
They found the victim in plain sight, apparently ordered by his kidnappers to
sit amid a crowd, perhaps because they knew it would be harder to press
kidnapping charges if he were discovered so.

Twenty-one suspects were arrested, 17 in Chinatown and 4 in Queens. However,
only 9 were charged in Federal District Court in Brooklyn on Thursday, and they
were charged with extortion, not kidnapping. The other suspects were released.

Prosecutors declined to discuss aspects of the case not included in the
complaint, adding that the investigation of the kidnapping was not over and
could lead to further charges. Two law-enforcement officials said that four more
kidnapping victims were also found, but prosecutors and an F.B.I. spokesman
insisted that Mr. Zhou was the sole victim.

In another case, on Sept. 18, the 19-year-old son of the owner of a Chinese
restaurant in Harlem was found dead on a beach in Brooklyn, stabbed more than 20
times. The young man, Chen Chonghui, had been kidnapped a week earlier from his
father's restaurant after a group of Fujianese youths had demanded $80,000, the
police said.

A detective who worked on the case said the kidnappers appeared to have been
hired by an immigrant smuggler to collect a debt from the restaurateur. "They
took all his cash, but that didn't cover it," said the detective, who insisted
on anonymity. "So they took his son, too."

The detective added that it was unclear what had gone wrong and resulted in the
killing of the young man.

After his family complained that the police had botched a ransom drop by scaring
off the kidnappers, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly ordered an
investigation into the handling of the case. Mr. Kelly said last week that,
initially, he did not see anything wrong in how the police handled the case.

In a third case, the 20-year-old daughter of another restaurant owner was
kidnapped in her father's restaurant in the East Village on Sept. 26 and held
for a $30,000 ransom. After the woman was released unharmed, the police arrested
eight suspects, one of whom was described by the police as a former member of
Fuk Ching.

The police acknowledge that many kidnapping cases are not reported to them.
Recent immigrants, in particular, are often reluctant to contact the authorities
when illegal immigrants are involved, and cases like Chen's may discourage other
families from reporting such incidents.

The kidnappings follow a pattern, law-enforcement officials and experts say,
that often occurs when a gang is torn apart by dissension, prosecution by the
authorities or both -- a surge in random violence.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 21, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

25 Arrested on Immigrant-Smuggling Charges

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 5;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 503 words


Federal agents arrested 25 Turkish and Chinese immigrants in New York City and
on Long Island yesterday and charged them with participating in an elaborate
scheme to smuggle immigrants, obtain fraudulent documents and import illegal
goods.

Nineteen of the immigrants were taken into custody at a Traveler's Lodge at
Kennedy International Airport where, a Federal agent said, they showed up with
completed immigration forms and expected to obtain permits for permanent
residence, commonly known as green cards. They were arrested instead.

Six were arrested elsewhere; all were arraigned at Federal District Court in
Uniondale, L.I. Seven more immigrants were sought last night.

The arrests grew out of a two-year undercover operation, a Federal prosecutor
said. It exposed a handful of smugglers, the prosecutor said, in what appeared
to be a typical immigrant-smuggling scheme in which United States officials are
bribed to help immigrants enter the country illegally at Kennedy Airport.

Bribes for 'Green Cards'

No officials were charged yesterday, and immigration authorities have said in
the past that they do not know the extent of corruption among airport officials.

The operation began in early 1992, when agents learned that Servet Kahraman, a
Turkish immigrant who lives in Wantagh, L.I., said he would offer bribes to
obtain green cards for illegal immigrants he employed at gas stations on Long
Island, according to a complaint filed yesterday.

After several meetings with an undercover agent for the United States Customs
Service, Mr. Kahraman met an agent at the Palace Diner in Queens in June 1993 to
work out a system in which a passport would be stamped with a permit for legal
residence in exchange for $2,500.

Two months later, Mr. Kahraman proposed expanding the arrangement to include the
direct smuggling of immigrants through Kennedy Airport, and paying various
officials $5,000 for each immigrant. Mr. Kahraman also introduced the agents to
a fellow Turk, Nazmiye Karamahmutoglu, and said she had previously smuggled more
than 150 Turkish immigrants into the United States.

Expanding to China

Ms. Karamahmutoglu soon proposed smuggling dozens of immigrants from Turkey, and
even suggested opening a storefront near her home in Hollis, Queens, to handle
the boom of business she expected. The undercover agents accepted cash from her
to meet immigrants at Kennedy and personally guide them through, the complaint
says.

It says the agents did the same for Lawrence Chan of Forest Hills, Queens, who
was also introduced by Mr. Kahraman, and who similarly paid them to escort
immigrants from China through Kennedy Airport.

In January 1994, the complaint says, Mr. Chan further offered to pay $250,000
each month that an agent could help him circumvent textile quotas by illegally
importing ship containers of T-shirts made in China.

All the immigrants who entered the country with help from the agents -- 14 from
Turkey and 6 from China -- were arrested yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 10, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Suspect Is Accused Of Smuggling Aliens

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 6;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 97 words


A man described as a major figure in the smuggling of illegal Chinese immigrants
into the United States has been arrested in New York, Federal officials said
yesterday.

They said that the arrest of the man, Chen Guo Ping, who was taken into custody
Friday, was a significant step in combating the problem of alien-smuggling from
China.

While there have been many arrests of lower-level smugglers and of gang members
who hold the smuggled aliens captive in the United States until they can pay
money they owe smugglers, arrests of high-level organizers have been rare.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 15, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Arrested Alien: Political Hero Or a Smuggler?

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 46;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 491 words


To Federal officials combating the widespread smuggling of aliens from China,
Chen Guo Ping is rare catch: a top "snakehead," they say, an organizer of such
illicit trafficking in human cargo. Those usually caught in connection with this
China trade are low-level participants, the officials say, making Mr. Chen's
recent arrest in Queens a significant step in the struggle to stem the
smuggling.

But where officials last week described Mr. Chen as a smuggler, able to live as
a legal alien in the United States through a marriage of convenience to an
American citizen, his lawyer painted a different picture. He said that Mr. Chen
was innocent of the smuggling charges and that he had been granted legal-alien
status in the United States because of his participation in the pro-democracy
demonstrations that Chinese troops crushed in Tiananmen Square in 1989.

"He was admitted on a political basis, having nothing to do with marriage," the
lawyer, Steven K. Frankel, said of his 33-year-old client, who was arrested on
May 6 and appeared in Federal District Court in Brooklyn last week at a
detention hearing. Mr. Chen is being held without bail, pending proceedings on
whether bail should be set.

Tied to 500 Aliens

Margaret M. Giordano, an assistant United States attorney in Brooklyn, said that
Mr. Chen was "a renowned snakehead in China."

"We can attribute close to 500 aliens to him," she said, adding that
investigators believed they could "connect him to others as well."

Those familiar with the smuggling of aliens from China say the immigrants agree
to pay the smugglers fees of up to $30,000.

Mr. Chen was arrested at a house in College Point, Queens, to which he was
traced after returning to the United States several weeks ago, Ms. Giordano
said.

Mr. Frankel said his client "has a family in New York and in China," and
suggested Mr. Chen has residences in both places. He said Mr. Chen was estranged
from his wife, whom he decribed as a Chinese-American woman.

Ms. Giordano said Mr. Chen had not been linked to the Golden Venture, the
freighter that ran aground off Queens last June with nearly 300 illegal Chinese
immigrants, 10 of whom died trying to reach shore.

One operation Mr. Chen and associates are accused of arranging involved about
300 aliens who were intercepted by Federal agents in June 1993 while trying to
land in two boats near San Francisco.

Held in 'Safe Houses'

He is also accused of being an organizer of an operation last year in which
nearly 200 aliens were shipped from China to Mexico, then smuggled into the
United States. Officials said many were then transported to New York City, where
they were held captive in "safe houses" by members of an Asian street gang, the
White Tigers, until they paid the balance of their smuggling fees.

Mr. Chen was arrested on an indictment charging him with alien smuggling,
punishable on conviction by up to five years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Behind Immigrants' Voyage, Long Reach of Chinese Gang

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1223 words


A Chinese gang that recently emerged as a major force in the smuggling of
illegal immigrants helped organize the voyage of the tramp steamer that ran
aground off Queens on Sunday with nearly 300 Chinese immigrants aboard,
law-enforcement officials believe.

Federal officials said they had evidence that one organizer of the smuggling
enterprise was Guo Liang Chi, also known as Ah Kay, the 28-year-old leader of
the Fuk Ching gang. Both Federal and New York officials, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity, believe that members of the gang were to have unloaded
the illegal immigrants and to have collected $30,000 from each of them for the
17,000-mile journey from the Far East.

The Federal officials said Mr. Guo was one of six Chinese crime figures who set
up the voyage of the 150-foot Golden Venture, which set sail from Bangkok in
January. Mr. Guo and the others are from Fujian Province in southern China and
from Taiwan, the officials said, but they mainly operate out of New York and
other American cities.

Yesterday, three members of Mr. Guo's gang, including a 17-year-old girl, were
arrested in Brooklyn and charged with holding captive 13 illegal immigrants from
China, some for several weeks, some for several months.

Bloody Feuding

After bloody feuding broke out within the gang in January, law-enforcement
officials say, Mr. Guo fled the country and is believed to be in China or
Southeast Asia. The officials say, however, that he still controls the largest
faction of the gang. They say it is not clear whether he helped set up the
operation involving the Golden Venture from the United States or abroad.

"We have an understanding of how this works," said an official of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "There are investors. There is gang
involvement. They hire muscle to collect the money. Fuk Ching comes in sometimes
as investors, but most often they provide the muscle."

The smuggling of illegal immigrants has become big business since the United
States has adopted a more liberal approach to granting political asylum to
Chinese citizens in the aftermath of the 1989 uprising at Tiananmen Square and
the imposition of forced abortions and sterilizations by Chinese authorities to
control population growth.

In the Brooklyn case, the police said, the immigrants were charged a total of
$35,000, $20,000 before departure and $15,000 after reaching New York. The
police said the immigrants were working in restaurants and laundries to pay off
the final $15,000 and win their freedom.

The police said they learned that the illegal immigrants were being held in a
two-story brick house at 672 51st Street in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn
from a caller who said two of the Chinese captives, who had been unable to find
work, were being threatened with execution for failing to pay the smugglers. The
three people arrested, all Brooklyn residents, were identified as Joe Chung, 20,
of 672 51st Street, Vinny Chau, 18, of 2071 68th Street, and Annie Young, 17,
471 57th Street.

Meanwhile, immigration officials said they had moved all but 50 of the 276
Chinese men and women who were rescued from the pounding surf off the Rockaway
Peninsula in Queens on Sunday to detention centers in Pennsylvania and Virginia.

Immigration authorities yesterday revised the death toll in the grounding,
saying that six people died in the desperate struggle to reach shore, rather
than eight as they had initially reported. Immigration officials said that in
the confusion, two of the victims were apparently counted twice.

Searching for Evidence

Throughout the day, investigators from the immigration service made their way
through the rusty freighter, searching for evidence that would help them piece
together a detailed picture of the harrowing voyage and strengthen their case
against the smugglers.

One of the passengers on the Golden Venture has told investigators that he had
been hired by an unidentified crime boss to provide food and set up sleeping
arrangements for the others in exchange for a discount on his passage,
law-enforcement officials said. That passenger, the captain and 10 crew members
have been charged in a Federal criminal complaint with conspiracy to smuggle the
immigrants into this country.

The passenger told investigators that, through the ship's radio, he had kept in
contact with the ship's owner, whom he identified only as a Mr. Wong. Federal
and New York law-enforcement officials said that one of the six organizers of
the voyage, along with Mr. Guo, was Wong Yu Gui, a reputed member of the Chinese
underworld.

Wayne McKenna, an Immigration and Naturalization Service official in charge of a
Federal task force on Chinese smuggling on the seas, said in interview that many
illegal Chinese immigrants had told immigration officials that they had been
taken to smugglers' boats by Chinese Government officials in Fujian Province.

In a news conference at the Chinese Consulate in New York, Wu Hong Qiao, the
vice consul, said he knew of no case in which Government officials had assisted
smugglers. But he said that the Chinese Government had stepped up coastal
patrols and other efforts to foil smugglers and that the allegations of official
involvement in the smuggling were being investigated.

Hope of a Better Life

The diplomat said that increasing numbers of Chinese were leaving their homeland
in search of a better life.

But, he said that "there are a lot of misunderstandings in China that it is very
easy to make a fortune here" in the United States.

"Criminal organizations," he said, "are taking advantage of this kind of
mentality."

Lieut. Joseph A. Pollini, the executive officer of the New York City Police
Department's Major Case Squad, which specializes in crimes by Chinese gangs,
said that profits from smuggling illegal aliens has made the Fuk Ching or Young
Fujianese the wealthiest and most powerful Chinese gang in New York. The
possible involvement of the gang was reported yesterday in The Daily News.

The gang, he said, is also involved in smuggling guns and heroin, prostitution,
gambling and runs a protection racket in which restaurant and shop owners are
forced to pay as much as $300 a week to avoid being harmed by members of Fuk
Ching.

Tensions Over Profits

The police and law-enforcement officials said that tensions over profits from
the smuggling of immigrants as well as other criminal activities had begun to
split the Fuk Ching gang late last year. Trying to re-establish unity,
law-enforcement officials said, Mr. Guo, who was convicted of grand larceny in
1986 and served 18 months, ordered the killing in January of two members of a
dissident faction.

But his tactics apparently backfired, for in May, two of Mr. Guo's brothers and
two allies were gunned down in Teaneck, N.J., by members of the rival faction
who burst into a house where illegal immigrants were being kept.

Federal law enforcement officials said it was not clear how much heroin was
being smuggled into the United States by the Fuk Ching gang. But Lieutenant
Pollini said that in the last year or so the gang had been concentrating more
effort on smuggling immigrants. Smuggling heroin offers great profits, but for
those who are caught, the penalties are much stiffer than for trafficking in
immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Annie Young, 17, at the 81st Precinct station in Brooklyn last
night where she and two others were charged with holding captive 13 illegal
Chinese immigrants. (Steve Hart for The New York Times) (pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Puzzle

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words


To the Editor:

For many who live and work productively in this country there is irony in your
June 10 front-page report on a Chinese gang leader, suspected of alien
smuggling, who twice entered this country illegally, who may have deposited
hundreds of other illegals here and now has our immigration system tied up in a
protracted request for asylum. I came to this country, legally, as a physician
on a student visa in 1964. I was required to report my whereabouts to the
Immigration and Naturalization Service each year, and when my time was up, I was
emphatically told to leave, which I did. In time I returned, again legally, as a
permanent resident.

Over the years numerous students of mine followed the same course, leaving this
country when their visas expired. In the mid-1980's a number of them asked me
why they were required to leave this country when illegal immigrants were being
offered -- indeed invited to apply under amnesty for -- immigrant status, for
which my students, as legal visitors, were ineligible. Is there a message here?

NICHOLAS J. GROSS, M.D.
Chicago, June 10, 1993

The writer is a professor of medicine and biochemistry, Loyola University.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 19, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Hong Kong Captures 143 People on Boats On Way From China

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 261 words

DATELINE: HONG KONG, July 18


Hong Kong intercepted 143 more boat people from China just after dawn today,
Government officials said.

The interception in Hong Kong waters of three vessels carrying the boat people
brought the total number of arrivals to more than 800 since a new wave started
earlier this month, the Government said. It added that the number exceded the
total for the last four years.

"It is worsening," a Government spokeswoman said. "Yesterday was 125, and this
morning was already 143."

The boat people are ethnic Chinese who fled into southern China from Vietnam in
the late 1970's and settled in the coastal town of Beihai. They say local
authorities are now demolishing their homes to make way for development.

Governor Chris Patten has urged China to take back new arrivals, who are being
treated as illegal immigrants.

                             --------------------


76 Sentenced as Smugglers



HONG KONG, July 18 (AP) -- The authorities in southern China have sent 76 people
to prison or labor camp for smuggling illegal immigrants out of the country, a
Government-run newspaper here reported today.

The smugglers were convicted on Thursday in Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian
Province, a center for immigrant trafficking to the United States and elsewhere,
said the newspaper Ta Kung Pao. It reported that 32 had been sentenced to terms
ranging from one to five years and that 44 had been sent "for re-education
through labor."

The smugglers were reported to have been caught in a monthlong crackdown on
immigrant trafficking in the province.

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

CRACKDOWN FAILS TO STEM SMUGGLING OF CHINESE TO U.S.

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1911 words


Undeterred by the fate of their countrymen who died trying to swim ashore from a
freighter stranded off the Rockaway Peninsula in June, or by a crackdown ordered
by President Clinton soon afterward, growing numbers of illegal Chinese
immigrants are being smuggled into the United States, immigration officials and
lawyers say.

As law-enforcement authorities have focused their attention on stopping more
boats from landing, many smugglers and their human cargo have turned to
commercial air flights as their favored means of passage, the officials and
lawyers say.

Smugglers are also using an unusual array of new tactics to camouflage the small
groups that arrive by plane each day. In one scheme, immigrants are hidden in a
group of genuine tourists from Hong Kong or Thailand, their forged passports
submitted to an airport inspector in a stack of real ones.

Immigrants' New Tactics

Although it is impossible to count the number of illegal immigrants from China
who use fake documents to pass through airports or who sneak over the Mexican
border after flying into Latin America, both numbers are clearly rising, experts
say.

Lawyers cite a surge in walk-in clients, new arrivals are plainly evident in
Chinatown in New York, and officials believe that smugglers have shifted tactics
rather than shut down their immensely profitable business.

"It's certainly on the rise, although it's hard to put a number on it," said
Wayne R. McKenna, who heads a Federal anti-smuggling task force at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service. "We are dealing with sophisticated
smuggling networks, ones that can adapt quickly."

The influx provides a stark challenge for the Clinton Adminstration. After the
grounding of the Golden Venture off the shore of Queens last June and the deaths
of 10 passengers who were trying to reach land, the Administration proposed
several measures to curb the smuggling of immigrants.

Mexico Persuaded to Help

Last month immigration officials prevented three boats with more than 650
Chinese immigrants from landing in California and persuaded Mexico to take all
but two of the immigrants and send them back home. One man was granted political
asylum; a woman was taken to Los Angeles during an attack of appendicitis and
has remained there.

Two months ago, officials said perhaps 20 immigrant-laden ships were en route to
the United States, but none are known to have landed.

But immigration officials concede that no matter how closely they watch the
shorelines, they remain ill-equipped to break the smuggling networks, which have
flourished over the past three years. "The smuggler always finds new ways to
operate," said Mr. McKenna.

Experts say the recent surge in Chinese immigration seems to be occurring
because smugglers, alarmed by the sudden attention drawn to their trade after
the grounding of the Golden Venture, are eager to transport the immigrants
already in their pipeline, and to show potential customers that their routes
still operate.

Immigrants, worried that years of saving for a planned trip may be wasted, are
also hurrying to make the voyage in case the authorities somehow succeed in
closing off the routes, the experts say.

"It's a combination of good salesmanship by the smugglers and gut fear among the
passengers," said Willard Myers 3d, an immigration lawyer based in Philadelphia
who closely follows immigration patterns. "After the Golden Venture came in and
attracted all that attention, the air route has been cranked into high gear."

Mr. Myers estimates that several thousand Chinese immigrants arrived in June and
in July, compared with about 1,000 a month earlier this year. Mr. Myers said he
based his estimate on a survey of other lawyers across the country and on
information received from people involved in smuggling operations.

In his own office, Mr. Myers said, the number of newly arrived Chinese seeking
legal help swelled by 50 percent in June and July compared with the number
earlier in the year. He estimates that roughly half of the new arrivals sneak
over the border from Mexico, and half fly directly to airports. Several other
immigration lawyers in the New York area said they had experienced increases.

Fujianese Immigrants

I.N.S. officials say they have no way of knowing how many illegal immigrants
sneak in undetected. The majority of those from China are from Fujian Province,
and most of those who land in airports in Los Angeles, Miami, and Seattle head
to New York City, where the growing Fujianese community provides work and
support.

In Chinatown, new arrivals can easily be found at employment centers along East
Broadway, looking for work.

Chen Xiuhua, a 31-year-old Fujianese who arrived on a flight to Los Angeles in
mid-July, said last week that he had traveled as one of four immigrants among
about 20 tourists that set out from Bangkok, Thailand. He carried a stolen
Malaysian passport provided by a smuggler, with his photo in place of the
original.

"The group leader handled all our passports together," said Mr. Chen, describing
his passage through Los Angeles airport. "They took a quick look at us, but
nobody asked me any questions. It was very convenient."

Mr. Chen said he paid $4,000 before setting out from China, and had his family
there pay $29,000 more after he arrived safely in New York. He expects to work
three or four years to repay the debt; he paid an employment agent $70 to
arrange a restaurant cook's job in Tennessee.

Mr. Myers said he recently spoke with a young Chinese immigrant who also flew
into Los Angeles with a tourist group that originated in Bangkok, but on that
trip only five members were genuine tourists and the other 32 were all illegal
immigrants.

A $30,000 Trip

Illegal Chinese immigrants have used the air route before. Officials say they
began to notice a growing number of Chinese arrivals in small groups in the
late-1980's, but the numbers were modest until 1990, when a Presidential
executive order made it easier for Chinese to plead for asylum at a time when it
was becoming easier for ordinary Chinese to leave their country.

As smugglers learned how profitable the trade could be, with people willing to
pay $30,000 or more for the trip, they developed complex air routes that often
took passengers through a series of cities in Southeast Asia and Latin America.
The paths often led passengers to a country like Bolivia or Brazil, where a
transit, tourist or business visa to the United States could be arranged.

Although few smugglers have ever been caught -- including those who arranged the
journey of the Golden Venture -- many are believed to be Taiwanese businessmen
with connections in China, Latin America and the United States. The businessmen
arrange each stage of a smuggling operation: finding passengers, arranging their
travel documents, guiding them across borders and extracting payment after
arrival. Most immigrants borrow from relatives or loan sharks to pay the full
amount almost immediately after they arrive, working for years to pay the debt.

Sea Change for Smugglers

By 1991, when Taiwan agreed to a United Nations ban on drift-net fishing that
left dozens of ocean-going fishing vessels obsolete and therefore inexpensive,
many smugglers realized that sending human cargo in large groups by sea was not
only possible, but far more profitable than by air. In the next two years, two
dozen ships were caught trying to deliver Chinese immigrants to the United
States and many more are believed to have delivered passengers undetected.

This year, boat smugglers became increasingly brazen, sending one ship into the
San Francisco harbor, and another to New York.

The recent shift from sea back to air has little to do with passengers' desires,
since virtually all would prefer to fly rather than spend months crammed in the
hold of a ship. The price for voyage by air is usually just over $30,000, and
the price by sea slightly under $30,000, but many immigrants choose whichever
route is accessible to them.

Smugglers also discovered a few years ago that an immigrant could enter the
country by plane without any documents at all -- using a passport at check-in,
handing the passport back to a smuggler in a boarding area or during the flight,
and asking for political asylum upon arrival. Because detention space at most
airports is limited to a few hundred beds, a passenger without documents is
usually released in a few hours, pending an immigration hearing.

Most Come Documented

Yet the number of Chinese arriving at Kennedy International Airport without
documents -- even as it grew from 111 in fiscal year 1991 to 1,411 last year,
and is expected to reach about 1,200 this year -- has remained relatively small.
Most of the illegal immigrants who come by air enter the country using forged
documents.

Officials concede that with more than 56 million people arriving at airports in
the United States each year, they are unable to prevent the entry of many
illegal immigrants carrying fake documents, or carrying legitimate documents
being used for false purposes.

"Airport inspectors get about 30 or 40 seconds to look at each person," said
another I.N.S. official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "Unless
something jumps out at you, you're not going to stop them."

If the number of Chinese caught at airports with forged documents has not risen
in recent months, the variety of new schemes has.

Phantom Training Course

Chris Martell, an I.N.S. inspector at Seattle-Tacoma Airport in Washington
State, described a scheme that he and other agents discovered in mid-June. A
group of eight Chinese passengers arrived with genuine passports and visas to
the United States, as well as a group invitation to attend a training session at
American University in Washington, D.C.

"It was very nice paperwork," said Mr. Martell. "But they were ticketed to New
York, not Washington. When we checked into the university where they said they
were going, we found out that there was no such training session, that it was
all made up."

After alerting I.N.S. officials at other airports, he said, five other people
with the same fake invitation were discovered in Portland, Ore., and still
others in Honolulu.

American officials say they are aware that many temporary visas they grant in
Beijing go to people who intend to remain in the United States. Often, they say,
Chinese obtain passports and other documents by bribing local officials.

Shortage of Screeners

A State Department cable sent to Washington on July 15 from the United States
Embassy in Beijing complained that there were not enough American officials in
China to carefully screen all the visa applications for business and government
trips.

"The embassy has experienced an explosive increase in the number of applications
for B-1 visas," said the cable, signed by Ambassador Stapleton Roy, referring to
visas for business visits. In June, the cable said, the volume doubled to 6,730,
compared with 3,353 visas in June 1992.

Critics of the Clinton Adminstration policy, like Mr. Myers, the immigration
lawyer, say that trying to stop human smuggling by guarding the border will not
stop organized smuggling rings from finding ways to deliver immigrants to the
United States.

"They haven't even made a ripple in the smuggling business," Mr. Myers said.
"I'm seeing people come in every day, and its not likely to stop."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 1, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Immigrants Avoid U.S. Services;
Smuggling Hysteria

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 328 words


To the Editor:

Policy analysis by anecdote is carried to new heights in "Crackdown Fails to
Stem Smuggling of Chinese to U.S." (front page, Aug. 23). After reading the
alarming headline, I studied the article to find the factual basis for the
assertion on smuggling of Chinese, only to discover to my astonishment that the
principal proponents of the position were private lawyers who had accepted more
cases for representation and Government officials charged with detecting
immigration smuggling.

Often there is little or no useful data available from the immigration
bureaucracy. The inability to generate adequate information for management and
policy uses has been repeatedly identified as an area needing improvement.
Still, policy need not always be relegated to guesswork by advocates or
bureaucrats with vested interests in the guesses made.

On smuggling Chinese, you assert: "Most of the illegal immigrants who come by
air enter the country using forged documents." But you suggest that the number
of Chinese caught at the airports with invalid documents has not risen in recent
months. Nor has officialdom been overwhelmed with filings for asylum, sometimes
identified by proponents of immigration restriction as a method used by smuggled
aliens to gain United States entry and work permission.

In the first nine months of this fiscal year, 8,633 asylum applications were
filed by Chinese with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Over this
period, 175 cases were granted, 120 were denied, and 485 were closed for other
reasons.

Smuggling is nasty business and appropriate law enforcement and diplomatic
initiatives should be undertaken immediately. But the life of our nation is not
at risk. Policy responses must be carefully conceived and well grounded in
reality so as not to jeopardize the rights of genuine refugees.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Refugee Project
Lawyers Committee for Human Rights
New York, Aug. 23, 1993

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 24, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrant-Smuggling Case To Include Murder Charges

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 876 words


Federal law-enforcement officials said yesterday that a grand jury has brought
murder charges in the case of the Golden Venture, the ship crammed full of
Chinese immigrants that ran aground off the Rockaway Peninsula in June.

The indictment, to be unsealed today, charges eight new defendants with
involvement in a conspiracy to smuggle the immigrants -- 10 of whom died trying
to swim ashore -- and for the first time employs homicide charges in the case,
the officials said.

With the new charges, prosecutors appear to be shifting their focus in the
Golden Venture case to those thought to be enforcers, or the men on the ship who
gave orders to the captain, crew and passengers during its four-month voyage
from southeastern Asia to Africa, and eventually to New York City. But those who
actually organized the smuggling operation appear to remain beyond reach.

Maintained Order Aboard Ship

On June 21, a Federal indictment charged the Indonesian captain, the mostly
Burmese crew of the ship and one Chinese enforcer, Kin Sin Lee, with conspiracy
to smuggle illegal immigrants. Lawyers for the defendants have been asked to
appear before Judge Reena Raggi in Federal Court in Brooklyn this morning for
the arraignment.

In the new indictment, Mr. Lee is charged with the more serious count of
criminally negligent homicide, said the officials, who insisted on anonymity.
The charge stems from his role in forcing many of the ship's passengers to leap
into the water several hundred yards off the beach in Queens during the
confusion after the ship ran aground.

Among the new defendants, seven were identified by other passengers now in
custody as enforcers who played a role in smuggling nearly 300 Chinese to the
United States aboard the ship, the officials said. An eighth defendant was a
Burmese crew member who acted as the ship's cook.

All the defendants have been in custody with other passengers from the ship, and
were moved to New York this week from detention centers in Pennsylvania and
Virginia.

"It was a long, drawn-out process, getting some of the passengers to tell us
what was needed to nail these guys," said one law-enforcement official who has
worked on the case. "We got enough for eight guys."

In interviews, several of the passengers aboard the ship have said that 10 to 12
Chinese acted as enforcers, brandishing knives and guns to keep the passengers
in line, and giving orders to the captain and crew. They often beat passengers
for resisting orders to return below deck, and some passengers said the
enforcers were involved in rapes of female passengers.

Disputes Among Enforcers

At one point, when the ship failed to make a rendezvous with another ship in
May, the enforcers staged what the crew members later described as a mutiny,
locking the captain in his cabin and directing other crew members to steer the
ship.

However, the crew members said, the enforcers did not act as a unified group and
often fought among themselves. There appeared to be a split, one crew member
said, between the enforcers who boarded the ship with about 100 passengers off
the coast of Thailand on Feb. 14 and those who came aboard with the 200 others
near Mombasa, Kenya, more than a month later.

William J. Muller, executive assistant to the United States Attorney in
Brooklyn, declined to comment on the indictment, but confirmed that the names of
20 defendants are listed in the court schedule to appear before Judge Raggi this
morning. He would not discuss the case, but eight of the names on the court
schedule were not included in the original indictment on June 21.

While expanding the Golden Venture case, officials concede, the new indictments
still involve only middle-level functionaries in the complex web of immigrant
smugglers, which investigators say stretches from the "snakeheads" who recruit
passengers in Fujian Province in China, to the main organizers who put up the
money for a ship and crew, to the Chinatown gang members who typically hold
passengers upon arrival until they pay the balance of a $30,000 fee.

Late last month, Federal investigators arrested more than a dozen members of the
Fuk Ching gang in New York City, accusing them of conspiring to smuggle
immigrants as well as extortion and kidnapping and other charges.

The leader of the gang, Guo Liang Chi, who is widely known by his nickname Ah
Kay, was also arrested in Hong Kong and charged in a double murder for a
Chinatown killing that law-enforcement officials say he ordered last January.
Federal and New York City officials have said since the week that the Golden
Venture crashed off Queens that they believed Mr. Guo was involved in that
smuggling operation.

Yet the new indictment is not expected to draw any link between Mr. Guo or the
Fuk Ching gang with the ship, which drew the nation's attention to the issue of
smuggling illegal immigrants from China, a lucrative business that officials say
has been growing for years.

Prosecutors needed to obtain indictments against the new defendants, all of whom
had applied for political asylum during their detention by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, before they were granted asylum and released or denied
it and sent back to China, officials said.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 25, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Single Defendant Is Focus In Smuggling of Immigrants

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 626 words


Federal prosecutors in the Golden Venture case have narrowed their focus to the
role of a single defendant, who was charged yesterday with manslaughter in the
deaths of six passengers.

The defendant, Kin Sin Lee, was also described by prosecutors for the first time
as being the owner of the ship. The rusty freighter had carried nearly 300
illegal Chinese immigrants on a treacherous four-month voyage across the Indian
and Atlantic Oceans to New York City. A handful perished trying to swim ashore
when the vessel wrecked off Rockaway Peninsula on June 6.

In an indictment that was announced in Brooklyn by United States Attorney
Zachary W. Carter, eight new defendants were named for complicity in a plot to
smuggle the immigrants into the United States, bringing the total number of
defendants to 20.

With 20 defense lawyers and several translators for the Chinese, Indonesian, and
Burmese defendants, the Federal prosecutors decided to focus on Mr. Lee, who had
already been charged with immigrant smuggling.

Pointed Out by Others

A stone-faced 23-year-old who sat silently through yesterday's proceedings,
nodding gently as a translator whispered in his ear, Mr. Lee has been described
in statements by both passengers and crew as the main agent of smugglers aboard
the ship. He gave orders throughout the journey, the crew said, replacing the
captain at one point, and negotiated frantically with smugglers on the shore by
telephone in the hours before the ship ran aground.

Mr. Lee's lawyer, Michael Hurwitz, asserted that prosecutors were blaming his
client unfairly because they had not caught those he called the real organizers
behind the smuggling operation, and because there was political pressure to find
culprits.

"When this case was splashed all over the newspapers, the government had to do
something," said Mr. Hurwitz. "Politics may have affected this case."

Because immigrant smuggling is a relatively weak charge, carrying a maximum
penalty of five years in prison, officials say, prosecutors have taken an
unconventional approach by applying the more serious charges of criminally
negligent homicide and second-degree manslaughter to Mr. Lee. He was charged
with six counts of each yesterday -- one for each of the six passengers found
dead on June 6. Four more bodies washed ashore up to two weeks later.

Catherine E. Palmer, the Assistant United States Attorney heading the
prosecution, said after the arraignment that she was confident she could
demonstrate Mr. Lee's responsibility for the deaths. But it is unclear whether
she intends to demonstrate Mr. Lee's guilt by his role in charge of a dangerous
operation or to say that he actually forced passengers to jump off the ship.

Ms. Palmer said she was not seeking charges in connection with the four other
bodies. "The six bodies were found that day," she said. "I don't want to have to
quibble over whether other bodies were actually from the ship."

Law-enforcement officials concede that Mr. Lee, although he may be registered as
the owner of the Golden Venture, was an employee rather than a boss in the loose
hierarchy of immigrant smugglers.

But the officials add that the serious charges facing Mr. Lee -- with a maximum
sentence of 15 years for each count of manslaughter -- might also persuade him
to start cooperating with law enforcement officials who hope to crack immigrant
smuggling networks.

Other defendants in the case may also put pressure on Mr. Lee. Lawyers for 11
defendants said they would plead guilty next week to lesser charges, in exchange
for agreeing to testify for the prosecution. Several crew members, in initial
statements, accused Mr. Lee of threatening to kill them if they did not obey his
orders.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 30, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

18 Are Indicted In Smuggling Of Immigrants

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 685 words


Eighteen members of the Fuk Ching gang were indicted yesterday by a Federal
grand jury in Manhattan on a battery of charges that include immigrant
smuggling, racketeering, conspiracy and murder.

But prosecutors said they have failed so far to find evidence to link the gang
with the Golden Venture, the ship crammed with immigrants that wrecked off the
Rockaway Peninsula early on June 6. Ten people died trying to swim ashore.

At the head of the indictment was Guo Liang Chi, the leader of the Fuk Ching,
who was arrested with an associate in Hong Kong late last month and now faces
extradition to the United States. The arrest precipitated a sweep by Federal
investigators in New York City that netted 16 more members of the gang.

The gang was identified by the police as the most powerful Asian gang in the
city until factional warfare eroded its position early this year. According to
the indictment, the gang was deeply involved in the smuggling of Chinese
immigrants to the United States, collecting payments from newly arrived
immigrants and using violence when payments were late.

No Golden Venture Charge

"This business led to the commission of numerous kidnappings and assaults
against illegal aliens," said the United States Attorney, Mary Jo White, in a
statement. "It also led to a factional split within the Fuk Ching gang
concerning the distribution of proceeds earned through criminal activity."

But the indictment includes no charges related to the Golden Venture case, which
faces a separate but parallel prosecution in Federal Court in Brooklyn. That
case, in turn, does not include any charges against members of the Fuk Ching.

Mr. Guo, the Fuk Ching leader widely known as Ah Kay, has been described by
Federal and local law-enforcement officials as one of several suspected
organizers of the Golden Venture. But prosecutors in Manhattan and Brooklyn each
said that they did not have the evidence to tie him to it.

Yesterday's indictment charges Mr. Guo and 11 other gang members with a pattern
of racketeering activity that began in 1984 and continued until the arrests last
month. Three murders, three attempted murders and numerous kidnappings and
extortions are among the criminal activities discovered in an investigation that
began more than two years ago, prosecutors say.

Guo's Father Indicted

The charges of immigrant smuggling in the indictment were brought against six
other people described in the indictment as gang members, including Mr. Guo's
father. But the charges stem largely from events that occurred after the Golden
Venture's arrival in June.

For example, the indictment cites evidence that two defendants, Chen Hui and
Tang Xuedan, spoke with people in China by telephone in late July about how much
money should be refunded to passengers who were returned to Fujian Province
after their boat was seized off the coast of Mexico earlier that month. The call
was monitored by a telephone tap authorized on July 20, according to a complaint
filed last month.

A second indictment, announced in Brooklyn yesterday by United States Attorney
Zachary W. Carter, charged eight members of a Queens-based gang called the
"Korean Fuk Ching" with conspiring to extort Korean businesses and with drug
trafficking. The two indictments came on the same day, a detective familiar with
the case said, because the investigations overlapped and not because the gangs
are closely linked.

At the same time, eight crew members of the Golden Venture pleaded guilty to
misdemeanor charges of alien-smuggling in an arrangement that allows them to be
sentenced to time already served.

The pleas, made in Federal District Court in Brooklyn by those considered least
culpable for the ill-fated voyage, requires them to cooperate with prosecutors
against the remaining 12 defendants and against any others who might be indicted
later in the case, defense lawyers said.

Those who pleaded guilty yesterday, citizens of Indonesia or Myanmar, formerly
Burma, ranged from the second officer to "oilers and greasers" in the engine
room, as one investigator put it.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

8 Charged in Crackdown on White Tigers Gang

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 597 words


In the third crackdown on an Asian gang in three months, Federal authorities
announced the indictment yesterday of eight members of the White Tigers gang, a
Queens-based group that law-enforcement officials say was deeply involved in
smuggling illegal immigrants from China.

Leading gang members, including David (Lobster) Lien and Edwin (Lumpy) Arroyo,
were not charged with immigrant smuggling, but with murder, arson and
racketeering activity over a five-year period. Law-enforcement officials said
the arrests effectively beheaded the gang, as did arrests of members of the Fuk
Ching gang in September and of the Tung On gang last week.

"Two is a pattern, three is a trend," said Elizabeth Glazer, chief of the
organized crime unit in the United States Attorney's office for the Southern
District. "I think that's what we have here."

The investigations of the three cases did not overlap, Ms. Glazer said. Although
she and other prosecutors seem to be mining a rich new source of information on
gang activity, Ms. Glazer attributed the timing of the indictments to effective
coordination between Federal prosecutors and New York City police detectives
familiar with patterns of gang activity.

Enforcers for Smugglers

Like the Fuk Ching gang, the White Tigers typically helped immigrant smugglers
by meeting immigrants as they arrived in the United States by air or by sea and
holding them captive until payment of a smuggling fee was arranged.

In June, less than two weeks after the arrival of the Golden Venture with nearly
300 passengers aboard, immigration agents raided a house in Bayside, Queens, and
found 22 Chinese immigrants being guarded by members of the White Tigers. The
immigrants had arrived on June 2 in California, and the gang's leader, Wei Hung
Lee, 32, was arrested there the same day.

Mr. Lee faces immigrant-smuggling charges in a Federal District Court in
Brooklyn, with a maximum penalty of five years in prison. But it is yesterday's
indictment -- with charges that could mean life imprisonment -- that has really
undercut the gang, officials said.

Ms. Glazer described the White Tigers as a relatively undisciplined gang of 35
to 40 members. She said they preyed mostly on shops and individuals in Flushing,
Queens, but in addition to smuggling-related activity, its members organized
relatively sophisticated criminal acts.

The indictment describes a carefully planned murder in April 1991, when gang
members ambushed three jewelers in the Park Avenue viaduct near Grand Central
Terminal, sprayed gunfire on their victims and made off with more than $250,000
in cash and an undetermined amount of jewelry.

Mr. Lien and Mr. Arroyo were also charged in the indictment with murdering Jian
Ping Liu in December 1988 and trying to kill Mr. Liu's wife and child. The two
were promised $7,000 for each body by an associate, the indictment said.

David (Lobster) Lien, whose nickname refers to one of his favorite dishes, was
arrested on Tuesday evening at a grocery store on Elizabeth Street in Chinatown
that is run by his family, the police said.

Edwin (Lumpy) Arroyo, named for a piece of flesh between two scars on his
forehead, was arrested early yesterday as he emerged from the Edgecombe
Correctional Facility on 163d Street in the Bronx, where he is on a work release
program.

A third gang member, Ruan Jian Wei, was arrested at his residence on Henry
Street in Chinatown. Mr. Lee and two others are already in captivity and two
gang members were not identified, listed in the indictment only as "John Doe."



LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 21, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Smugglers Prey on Immigrant Detainees, I.N.S. Critics Say

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 876 words


When the Immigration and Naturalization Service released a 16-year-old
undocumented Chinese immigrant from its Los Angeles detention center in
mid-September, the girl went directly into the hands of an accused smuggler.

Law-enforcement officials say the suspect, Lin Bao Lou, posted the teen-ager's
$800 bond, took her to New York and held her captive for the next two months in
a Brooklyn house, where he and seven other smugglers repeatedly raped and
sodomized her at gunpoint.

The girl, who escaped on Nov. 4, later told the authorities that she had been
captured because she owed money to the syndicate that had smuggled her into the
United States.

Officials at the I.N.S. confirmed this week that the teen-ager had been bailed
out by Mr. Lin, who was later arrested and charged with rape, sodomy, assault
and kidnapping. They said that although they have long suspected that smugglers
have intercepted immigrants released by the agency, this is the first time they
can prove it.

Criticizing the I.N.S.

That admission has prompted advocates for Chinese immigrants to harshly
criticize the I.N.S., accusing it of lax procedures that have led to the
violation of the human rights of immigrants in its care.

"These illegal immigrants are victimized twice, by the smugglers and by the
I.N.S.," said Stanley Mark, program director of the Asian American Legal Defense
and Education Fund.

But the I.N.S. defended its procedures, saying it conducts background checks of
all people claiming to be relatives who seek to bail out detainees.

Ken Elwood, assistant district director for detention and deportation with the
I.N.S. in Los Angeles, where the girl was released, said that because of a court
order, the I.N.S. is under pressure to reunite minors with relatives. People
posting the bail must, however, bring documents proving their relationship to
the detainees, Mr. Elwood said.

But Steven Wong, a former I.N.S. employee who has interviewed hundreds of
undocumented Chinese immigrants for the agency, said that I.N.S. agents eager to
close cases were often satisfied with superficial interviews with those seeking
to bail out detainees.

"The smugglers can simply go to bail hearings and take these people right into
their hands," said Mr. Wong, who is now a journalist for a Chinese-language
newspaper in New York.

No Space for Detainees

Duke Austin, an I.N.S. spokesman in Washington, said the safest way to keep
immigrants out of the hands of smugglers is to keep them in custody until a
deportation hearing. But he said the I.N.S must, by law, release immigrants who
pose no threat to society until their hearing.

Furthermore, he said, the number of undocumented immigrants entering the country
far exceeds the space the agency has to hold them. The I.N.S. has only 6,000
beds nationwide, he said, and it arrested more than 1 million undocumented
immigrants of all nationalities last year.

At the same time, the I.N.S. and lawyers representing undocumented Chinese
immigrants say the detainees, who are often desperate for release, are sometimes
willing participants in this dangerous game.

"Most people don't like being detained," said Cathy Tao, a lawyer who has worked
with such immigrants. She said they believe their chances of deportation are
greater if they remain in custody, and that children are often most eager to get
out.

"When a child has been in custody for a while, they want to go with anybody,"
she said. "They think if the person is willing to post bond for them, he must be
there to help them. They don't know what could happen once they go home with
these people."

But Mr. Mark of the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund said an
immigrant's willingness to be bailed out by strangers does not absolve the
I.N.S. of negligence. "Shouldn't the I.N.S. be suspicious if someone keeps
posting bonds for 'relatives'?" he asked. "Especially in the case of a minor?"

Flown to Captivity

The I.N.S. said the teen-ager taken by Mr. Lin had been arrested in California
in August as she and a 25-year-old man entered from Mexico. Law-enforcement
officials said that after Mr. Lin bailed them out, he flew them to New York and
promptly shackled them in houses around the city.

Patrick Clark, a spokesman for the Brooklyn District Attorney's Office, said the
victims said they had been forced to perform sex acts to entertain their
captors. The two captives also told investigators that Mr. Lin and his
accomplices forced both to make phone calls to China demanding money owed for
their passage and beat them when the money did not arrive. The girl sustained
three broken ribs from the beating, Mr. Clark said.

On Nov. 4, while their captors were away, the captives fled to a nearby bank,
where employees called the police, law-enforcement officials said.

A day later, the police arrested Lin Bao Lou and Chi Lin Leung, who they said
have ties to Fuk Ching, the gang that law-enforcement officials say has been
primarily responsible for smuggling immigrants from China.  Both men were
charged with rape, sodomy, assault and kidnapping, Mr. Clark said.

As Mr. Clark's office prepares for the trial, the girl, who is two months
pregnant after being raped, is preparing for an abortion.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A police officer arresting Chi Lin Leung, left, and Lin Bao Lou
earlier this month. Law-enforcement officials said that Mr. Lin posted the bond
of an undocumented Chinese immigrant girl, took the 16-year-old to New York and
held her captive in Brooklyn for two months. (Steven Wong)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

45 Illegal Aliens Found Locked in a House

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: PARAMOUNT, Calif., July 24


Forty-five undocumented immigrants were found locked inside a house on Friday,
after the Los Angeles County Sheriff's office received a call about two women
being held there, the authorities said today.

Immigration and Naturalization Service agents are detaining the immigrants until
a hearing can be held. One man was also arrested.

The authorities were alerted when a man named George Salazar reported that his
wife and 18-year-old daughter, who had been smuggled from El Salvador, were
being held in a house in this Los Angeles suburb. Angie McLaughlin, a
spokeswoman for the sheriff's office, said that Mr. Salazar "did not have the
additional money to give them -- the remaining fee -- and they wouldn't let him
have his wife and daughter."

The deputies found the house locked from the outside and heard people moving
around inside. The officers tore off bars from a living room window to get in,
Ms. McLaughlin said. While the deputies were at the house, a car with three men
inside pulled into the driveway, then sped away in reverse, she said. Deputies
chased the car and later arrested Alfredo Ascencio Perez, 24, who was turned
over to immigration officials.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 28, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton Seeks More Powers To Stem Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 27


President Clinton asked Congress today for more money and new laws to tighten
the borders against illegal immigrants, speed interviews of people seeking
political asylum and let the Government have the same tools it uses against
organized crime to fight foreign gangs promoting illegal immigration.

The President said his decision to push for this legislation was prompted in
part by the World Trade Center bombing, which showed how porous the American
immigration system is. But he said it was also an attempt to meet what is likely
to be one of the biggest domestic challenges the country will face in the
1990's: how to stem the increasing flow of illegal immigrants while maintaining
the fundamental American commitment to legal immigration and legitimate
political refugees.

"This has nothing to do with our support for keeping the rainbow and the melting
pot of America going and growing and enriching and strengthening this country,"
Mr. Clinton said after unveiling his proposal at the White House to an audience
of legislators, with heavy representation from immigrant-heavy states like New
York and California.

"But the kinds of practices that are manifest in who can get into this country
on an airplane, what kinds of illegal smuggling can go on, and the fact that our
borders leak like a sieve: those things cannot be permitted to continue in good
conscience.

"It's not good for the American immigrants who are here legally in this country,
for the American economy, for the cohesion of our society, or for the rule of
law worldwide," he added. "And we're going to try to do better."

Pattern of Abuse

The most controversial aspect of the Clinton plan involves new procedures for
on-the-spot administrative hearings to determine whether immigrants seeking
political asylum at a point of entry have legitimate claims. This is intended to
counter what Administration officials argue is a growing pattern of abuse of
American asylum laws by illegal immigrants who do not have credible claims for
political asylum but enter the country by air or sea, receive working papers and
stay for years while their claims are processed and appealed.

Under the proposed plan, if a traveler claims political asylum, his or her case
would be promptly heard at or near the port by a member of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service asylum corps, a specially trained group of officers with
expertise in interviewing technique and asylum law.

The asylum officer will determine whether an individual has a credible fear of
persecution, whether he or she would be likely to qualify for refugee status or
whether the person would be in danger if returned to the country of origin.

Under this plan for instant immigration justice, those determined to be bona
fide refugees will given protection. Those whose claims are found to be
fraudulent will be given the opportunity for a quick, limited appeal to Justice
Department officials, and if the immigration service decision is not reversed
they will be immediately deported.

Some immigration experts worry, though, that the provisions for quick justice in
dealing with applicants for political asylum will be little bit too quick. The
legislation limits court review to a technical habeas corpus proceeding, that
is, a proceeding that essentially looks only at whether the right person is
being deported, not whether the case has merit or whether the immigration
officials are following regulations.

Some Reservations

"Our concern is that this limitation would allow the immigration service to
operate behind a veil of secrecy by denying constitutional due process and
meaningful judicial review to legitimate asylum seekers," said Lucas Guttentag,
Director of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants Rights Project.

The proposed legislation was pulled together by Vice President Al Gore and was
expected to be introduced as a bill sponsored by Senator Edward M. Kennedy,
Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.
But Senator Simpson has decided not to be a co-sponsor for now because he was
not satisfied with the review arrangements for those denied political asylum.
The differences will have to be negotiated in committee.

The Clinton proposal also seeks to give the immigration authorities the same
powers law-enforcement officials have in the anti-racketeering laws that are
aimed at organized crime, including wiretaps.

The proposed bill says the Immigration and Naturalization Service "would be
authorized to intercept wire, electronic, and oral communications of persons
involved in alien smuggling."

The Clinton proposal also seeks an additional $172.5 million for next year's
proposed immigration budget to add up to 600 Border Patrol agents, and to give
them more high-technology equipment, like sensors and low-light-level
televisions. The immigration service budget is already $1.6 billion.

Also in the technology realm, the Clinton bill would promote greater cooperation
and communication between the various American Government agencies that deal
with immigration, so that people like Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, some of whose
supporters have been accused of involvement in the Feb. 26 World Trade Center
bombing, will not be able to slip through cracks in the immigration and consular
network.

It proposes to do this through a variety of means: upgrading the State
Department's ability to issue fraud proof, machine-readable visas; expanding
pre-inspection at foreign airports of American-bound passengers; upgrading the
consular communications lookout network so that Consular Officers at embassies
overseas can immediately share critical information about criminals and
suspected terrorists with the immigration service, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation and other agencies; making American passports more secure by
digitizing passport photos and installing on-line computer systems to insure
that multiple passports are not issued to the same person.


LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton listening as Attorney General Janet Reno spoke
yesterday after Mr. Clinton asked Congress for more money and new laws to stem
the increasing flow of illegal immigrants without upsetting the country's
commitment to providing asylum for legitimate refugees. (Jose R. Lopez/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 18, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Sue

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 125 words


Lawyers for the illegal Chinese immigrants who arrived aboard the Golden Venture
filed a class action suit yesterday in Federal Court in Harrisburg, Pa.,
charging that they have been denied a fair hearing on their requests for
political asylum.  The lawsuit, which names Attorney General Janet Reno and the
Immigration and Naturalization Service, contends that the immigrants' pleas for
asylum were denied unfairly because immigration judges refused to consider
China's one-child policy as a criteria for persecution. Virtually all the 250
Golden Venture passengers still detained have been denied asylum. The suit,
filed in Pennsylvania because most of the immigrants are detained there, could
cover thousands of other illegal Chinese immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 28, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Justice Lifts Barrier to Deportations of Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 526 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 27


A Supreme Court Justice has removed the only barrier preventing the Government
from deporting thousands of illegal aliens who were seeking legal status in a
dispute over an expired Federal amnesty program.

In a ruling on Friday, Justice Sandra Day O'Connor temporarily lifted a lower
court order preventing the deportations, saying the immigration rights groups
that had won the lower court order appeared to lack legal standing.

But immediate deportations appeared unlikely because Justice O'Connor also said
the aliens could sue on their own behalf if they had standing with the court.

Justice O'Connor noted that the question of which aliens had standing had been
decided in June when the full Court set aside a ruling that had given 300,000
other illegal aliens a new chance to seek legal status under the amnesty
program.

Rejected Applicants May Sue

In that case, the Court ruled that any alien who had applied to immigration
officials for amnesty under the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act, but had
been turned down, would have automatic standing to sue.

But the Court also ruled that those immigrants who never applied had no standing
unless they failed to apply because they knew someone who had applied and been
rejected, and they expected to be rejected, too. Aliens who met those conditions
might have standing, the Court said.

May 4, 1988, Deadline

Given that reasoning, the Justices said courts did not have enough information
to decide whether the aliens were eligible to contest their cases.

The Amnesty Act of 1986 offered legal residency to all illegal aliens who had
lived in the United States continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. The one-year period
for applying for amnesty expired on May 4, 1988.

The case Justice O'Connor acted on on Friday was I.N.S. v. Immigrant Assistance
Project of the Los Angeles County Federation of Labor, A-426, in which a Federal
judge in Seattle in 1989 gave some aliens a new chance to seek legal status
under the amnesty program.

20,000 to 50,000 Involved

About 20,000 to 50,000 aliens are involved, their lawyer said, adding that some
were denied legal status under the amnesty program, while others did not apply
because they expected to be rejected.

Last summer, Judge Barbara Rothstein of Federal District Court in Seattle barred
immigration officials from deporting those aliens while their cases were
pending. Judge Rothstein ordered the Immigration and Naturalization Service to
give the aliens work permits and either act on their cases within 90 days or
provide them notice.

The Government is appealing her order to the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco. Justice O'Connor, who hears emergency
matters from the Ninth Circuit, lifted Judge Rothstein's order until the appeal
is decided.

In seeking to have Judge Rothstein's order lifted, Solicitor General Drew S.
Days 3d argued that the order would create "widespread interference with the
administration of the immigration laws."

The Justice Department has asked the Supreme Court to set aside the ruling that
let the aliens renew their bids for legal status.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 498 words



NEW YORK CITY

GANG SUSPECTED IN IMMIGRANT SMUGGLING

Law-enforcement officials say they believe a Chinese gang, which has recently
emerged as a major force in the growing world of illegal-immigrant smuggling,
helped organize the ill-starred voyage of the tramp steamer that ran aground off
Queens on Sunday with nearly 300 Chinese men and women aboard. A1.

CONNECTICUT GUN BAN IS APPROVED

A bill banning assault-type weapons has been passed by the Connecticut General
Assembly after a series of close votes in Hartford and has been signed by the
Governor. A1.



WHITMAN WINS NEW JERSEY PRIMARY

Christine Todd Whitman, who nearly went to the United States Senate three years
ago on a tide of anger against New Jersey's Governor, Jim Florio, has won the
right to try to unseat Mr. Florio herself. She soundly defeated two vastly more
experienced rivals to win the Republican gubernatorial nomination. A1.

In her quest for the governor's office, Christine Todd Whitman has presented
herself as a political outsider. In truth, given her family background, it would
have been surprising if she did not go into politics. B4.

WHISPERS IN CHINATOWN

The elderly man, influential and well known in Chinatown, stood in the front
room of his office on Mott Street and hovered between the desire for full
disclosure and the need for discretion. He talked about illegal immigrants, like
those who came ashore from a grounded freighter off Queens on Sunday. B2.

TERM REDUCTION FOR HELMSLEY WEIGHED

A Federal judge has indicated that he is seriously considering a reduction in
the four-year prison term being served by Leona M. Helmsley, the hotel chain
owner, for tax fraud. Judge Thomas P. Griesa of Federal District Court in
Manhattan cited her age, 72, as one reason. B3.

FOR DINKINS, THE WRONG BUDGET

The election-year budget that Mayor Dinkins hoped would demonstrate his
managerial mettle came a year too soon. News Analysis. B3.

REGION

HAITIAN CAMP ORDERED CLOSED

A Federal judge has ordered that all Haitians held in a detention camp at
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base be released and that the camp -- opened two years ago
in an effort to stem a flood of Haitian immigrants -- be closed. B4.

SECRETLY TAPED CONFESSION VOIDED

New York State's highest court has ordered a new trial for a man convicted of
murder in a ruling that one judge warned could severely restrict the use of
police informants. B6.

A STORE OF QUESTIONS DOWNTOWN

In the eerie darkness, one can still make out the splendor of the former G. Fox
& Company, once the grande dame of Connecticut department stores. The question
for Hartford is what to do with all this grandeur. B6.

Princeton University conferred 1,075 undergraduate and 611 advanced degrees at
its 246th commencement. B4.

The two founders of the failed Colonial Realty Company have pleaded guilty in
New Haven to Federal fraud charges. B6.

About New York by Michael T. Kaufman B3

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Air Travel" shows the scheduled domestic and
international flights carrying passengers to and from local airports in March of
'92 and '93. (Source: Port Authority of New Jersey)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Young Toughs of Fuk Ching Gang Mourn 4

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 408 words


The four coffins lay open. Fifteen young men in loose-fitting double-breasted
black suits, black ties and wrap-around sunglasses walked past them in silence,
some bowing slightly.

The men in the coffins were young, too, and dressed identically in black suits,
except for one with a favorite Yankees baseball cap placed on his head. They
were all members of the Fuk Ching, law-enforcement officials said, a Chinatown
gang linked to the smuggling of illegal aliens, including those aboard the ship
that ran aground in Queens early Sunday.

The four -- two of them brothers of Guo Liang Chi, 27, the gang's reputed leader
-- were slain in a shootout in Teaneck, N.J., on May 24, which the authorities
say was part of a vicious struggle within the gang over the proceeds of
immigrant smuggling.

Yesterday's wake, at the Hong Kong Funeral Home at 41 Canal Street, was a rare,
public congregation of organized crime figures, especially the young, elusive
Chinese gang members who are believed to conduct many of their illegal
activities -- smuggling, extortion, gambling.

Law-enforcement officers paced the sidewalk and sat in unmarked cars across the
street, carefully noting who came and who left, just as they used to do at Mafia
funerals.

The 15 young men arrived on foot at 3 P.M., walking down Canal Street in a loose
single file. Some had crewcuts, others had used mousse to make their hair stand
a few inches taller.

Inside the funeral home, they took seats together, filling three rows on the
left side of the main hall, where the only sound was the soft wailing of a
middle-aged woman, apparently the mother of one of the deceased.

Only minutes later, another group of men began to arrive, dressed in
lighter-colored and more casual wear. One wore a white sweatsuit with the
maker's emblem on the breast. Another, in a white silk shirt, had a beeper on
his belt and a portable telephone in his pocket.

They sat together on the right side of the room, apart from the men in black.
Neither group looked at the other.

When the funeral home's manager stood and motioned to them, one group followed
the other into a side room where the coffins lay behind a table covered with
candles, incense and sacrificial chunks of cured pork.

Neither group seemed to express any emotion as they stepped softly past the
bodies.

Back in the hall, the men sat on the wooden seats for nearly two hours, their
gazes set forward. No one spoke.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 14, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Says Illegal Immigrants Cost $884 Million in Services

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 395 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., March 13


Florida's state and local governments spent $884 million last year on health
care, education, prisons and other public services for an estimated 345,000
illegal aliens, a new says.

The report, to be released Monday, will be used to support a lawsuit Gov. Lawton
Chiles plans to file against the Federal Government seeking reimbursement for
services provided to refugees and illegal immigrants.

"Immigration is the exclusive domain of the Federal Government," Mr. Chiles said
today in a statement. "But as this report documents, Washington's neglect has
left Florida's taxpayers with a multibillion-dollar tab."

Florida paid an estimated $2.5 billion in 1993 to provide services to asylum
seekers and legal and illegal immigrants, the report said. Of that, about $884
million is spent on illegal aliens, it said. Florida's entire state budget last
year was $35 billion.

"The actual cost of undocumented immigration is likely to be even higher, but it
is very difficult to calculate," the report said.

About 50,000 legal immigrants flock to Florida each year. With almost a million
foreign-born noncitizens, 7.3 percent of the population, Florida has the third
largest immigrant population behind California and New York.

Mr. Chiles has accused the Immigration and Naturalization Service of selectively
enforcing the law, turning Florida into a haven for immigrants.

"Florida has opened its arms to people seeking better lives," the Governor said.
"It's time the Federal Government opened its eyes to the problems caused by
unrealistic and unenforceable immigration laws."

A message left at I.N.S. offices in Washington was not returned on Sunday. But
The Miami Herald reported today that Duke Austin, an I.N.S. spokesman in
Washington, questioned the figures in the state report.

"One should be suspect about any data because I don't know of any serious effort
to collect data on illegal immigrants in the U.S.," Mr. Austin was quoted as
saying. "I don't know what they have done in the state of Florida, but I will
bet you that the data is extremely soft, because there has been no real
counting."

The report was prepared by the Governor's office and the Florida Advisory
Council on Intergovernmental Relations.

Mr. Chiles's lawsuit should be filed in two to three weeks in Federal District
Court in Miami, said Ron Sachs, the Governor's spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 24, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Nigerians Spared Deportation

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 19;   Column 4;   National Desk

LENGTH: 330 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., March 23


A Federal immigration judge ruled today that a Nigerian woman living illegally
in the United States would not be deported to her native country because her two
young daughters would probably face genital mutilation if they accompanied her.

The woman, Lydia Oluloro, 32, clutched her daughters and choked back tears when
Judge Kendall Warren, presiding in Seattle, ruled that a pending deportation
order be suspended. The ruling paved the way for Mrs. Oluloro to apply for an
extended work visa and remain indefinitely in the United States.

"I am grateful that the judge saw the truth," said Mrs. Oluloro, a janitor, who
has been living in Portland for seven and a half years. "I don't want my girls
to go through what I went through. They shed my blood for no reason."

At age 4, Mrs. Oluloro was forced to undergo the ritual, in which the hood of
her clitoris was removed with a knife. Variations of this type of genital
mutilation, also known as female circumcision, are common in Africa, Asia and
the Middle East. In Mrs. Oluloro's native village of Ilobu in southern Nigeria,
the procedure, frequently performed without an anesthetic, was considered a
traditional rite of passage.

It was a tradition that Mrs. Oluloro did not want imposed on her daughters,
Shade, 6, and Lara, 5, both of whom were born in the United States.

Mrs. Oluloro's fight with the Immigration and Naturalization Service began about
a year and a half ago when the agency got an anonymous tip that she was in this
country illegally.

After divorcing her husband, Emanuel, last year, she was left with only two
options: leave her daughters in the United States with their father, a man who
she said beat both her and the girls, or take them with her to Nigeria, where
they would most likely be forced to undergo female circumcision.

Mr. Oluloro, a Nigerian, was legally working here when he married. But he never
filed the paper work for his wife to gain legal standing in this country.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 7, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Decorated Sergeant In Marines Wants To Be a Citizen, Too

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 22;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 340 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 6


A decorated Marine sergeant has turned himself in to immigration authorities and
admitted that he is an illegal alien.

The sergeant, Danny Lightfoot, a native of the Bahamas and a marine for 11
years, turned himself in on Tuesday to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, saying he wanted to become a citizen for the sake of his family.

"I couldn't go on like this," he told reporters. "My back just got up against
the wall. I did it for myself and my family."

One of his three children is a United States citizen, but the others were born
outside the country and are not citizens. His wife, Raquel, also of the Bahamas,
is seeking legal residency as well.

"Should I have to make the ultimate sacrifice one day, I would willingly die
defending America," said Sergeant Lightfoot, wearing pressed khakis and service
ribbons. "My only regret would be that I would not die as an American."

'Friendly' Investigator

Sergeant Lightfoot, 29, met with an immigration officer and was allowed to
return to his station in Barstow to await a hearing on his request.

"The investigator could not have been more friendly," said Sergeant Lightfoot's
lawyer, Carl Shusterman. "He turned out to be an ex-marine."

Sergeant Lightfoot, who was described by the authorities as an outstanding
soldier, holds a Navy achievement medal, three good-conduct medals, two
certificates of commendation, seven letters of appreciation and a meritorious
unit commendation.

He carried with him to the I.N.S. office letters of support from superiors and a
Congressman.

"Sergeant Lightfoot is deserving of special consideration because he has
demonstrated his commitment to America by his willingness to defend it with his
life," said Lieut. Col. F. L. Kebelman 3d, executive officer at the Marine Corps
Logistics Base in Barstow, in one letter.

Representative Jerry Lewis, Republican of California, wrote that Sergeant
Lightfoot deserved to receive legal status because of his "dedication and
loyalty to the Marine Corps and the United States."


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 9, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Let 500 Aliens Be Deported

BYLINE: New York Times Regional Newspapers

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 7;  Column 6;  National Desk

LENGTH: 673 words

DATELINE: TALLAHASSEE, Fla., April 8


Federal immigration officials agreed today to let Florida deport 500 to 1,000
illegal aliens who are held in the state's crowded prisons.

The agreement between the state and the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
the first of its kind, calls for inmates to be released early from prison. The
inmates, who are in prison for nonviolent offenses like drug possession and
burglary, could begin being returned to their native countries by June 1.

The aliens come largely from Jamaica, Haiti and Colombia and several European
nations. No inmates will be returned to Cuba, said Harry Singletary, the Florida
Corrections Commissioner, because the United States does not maintain diplomatic
relations with Havana.

$60 Million to Keep Aliens

Officials in Florida, where inmates serve an average of 41 percent of their
sentences and where prison space is at a premium, welcomed the agreement. They
said Florida spends $60 million a year to keep illegal aliens in prison.

"This, we think, will allow us to open as many cells as we have in an entire
prison," Gov. Lawton Chiles said today. "That space will be used to lock up
additional violent criminals and save taxpayers' money."

The action by the immigration service comes as Florida prepares to sue the
Federal Government to try to recoup hundreds of millions of dollars it says it
spends annually on education, health care, welfare benefits and other social
services for illegal immigrants. The state contends that Federal immigration
policies allow aliens to enter the state unchecked and that the Government
should share the cost of providing services to them. Mr. Chiles said the lawsuit
will be filed despite the agreement on deportation.

U.S. Hails Cooperation

In a statement issued in Tallahassee, the Immigration Service Commissioner,
Doris Meissner, hailed the deportation agreement as a symbol of increased state
and Federal cooperation on immigration issues. "It will help make Florida
communities safer and send a message to foreign-born criminals that the United
States does not welcome immigrants who commit crimes," she said.

About 4,100 foreign citizens are among Florida's 54,000 prison inmates, state
officials said today.  About 1,400 of them were in the United States legally
when they were convicted of crimes and imprisoned, the immigration service has
determined.

The rest are illegal aliens, Mr. Singletary said, including an undetermined
number who committed violent crimes.

Deportation orders have already been drafted for 150 inmates, and the state
clemency board will be asked to start commuting their sentences when it meets in
June, said Mark Schlakman, a lawyer on the Governor's staff.

By the end of the year, officials said, as many as 1,000 inmates who are illegal
aliens may be deported.

State officials said they could not immediately determine the cost of the
deportations.

The inmates' names will be entered into national criminal-justice computers. If
they return to the United States and are detained by immigration officials, they
will be sent to Florida to complete their prison sentences. Federal officials
say half of the aliens who are deported try to return to the United States.

Florida will commute the sentences of only those inmates who give their consent
to deportation. But all inmates who are illegal aliens will be deported upon
their release from prison.

"The main thing, from their standpoint, is they're getting out of jail quicker
here if they accept this deportation," Mr. Chiles said.

The governments of the inmates' countries will not be notified in advance, Mr.
Chiles said.

The State Legislature will vote next week on a proposal to spend more than $300
million to build new prison space, an effort to reduce the hundreds of prisoners
released daily to prevent overcrowding.

"These are criminal aliens," Mr. Chiles said. "They're not Florida's problems to
start with. They're somebody else's problems who came to Florida through the
absence of a Federal policy and committed crimes here."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 15, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Of 4 Stowaways On Ship, 1 Survives

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 18;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 193 words

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, April 14


Immigration officials who opened a sealed container this morning aboard a ship
that left South America nine days ago found three dead Colombian stowaways and
one survivor.

Dock workers unloading the freighter Sea Wind before 3 A.M. heard pounding from
inside a container loaded with sacks of green coffee beans and notified shipping
officials. They in turn summoned the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
which opened the container at about 5:30 A.M.

Inside were the survivor and the bloated, decomposing bodies of three other
stowaways, said Curtis Lyles, a longshoreman who had noticed the noise and
stench.

The survivor, Luis Romero-Rincon, 26, was taken to Northeastern Hospital, where
a hospital spokeswoman said he was expected to be admitted. Henry J. Brattlie,
acting district director of the I.N.S. in Philadelphia, said Mr. Romero-Rincon
would be subject to deportation.

The identities of the stowaways who died were not immediately made public, but
officials gave their ages as 21, 25 and 28.

Mr. Brattlie said the authorities had also found a sock containing what they
believed was between a half-pound and a pound of cocaine.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

18 Stowaways Sent to Prison With U.S. Aid

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 897 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 20


Eighteen Romanian stowaways, who were being held in chains at a hotel here by a
shipping company, have been moved to a county prison in Pennsylvania, after the
Immigration and Naturalization Service intervened.

Immigration officials emphasized that their role in the case, which they termed
"extraordinary," did not represent a change in Federal policy. That policy
requires transportation companies to detain foreign stowaways, who arrive on
their ships and planes, until their legal proceedings are finished. The
Government does not monitor such detention, prompting concerns among advocates
for immigrants over the potential for abuse.

The officials said they decided to assist the Romanians -- most of whom came to
Boston last month by hiding themselves in huge metal cargo containers loaded
onto a 43,000-ton freighter in France -- because the ship's owner, Sea-Land
Service Inc., could not find a place for them.

Government Found Space

"All we did was act as the agent in locating the space and authorizing the
county facility to take the detainees," said Richard L. Kenney, a spokesman for
the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "It's a response to a
specific problem that Sea-Land wrote us about."

Some advocates for immigrants' rights maintain that all stowaways should be
handled in this way: the Government should take custody of them or arrange for
them to be sent to local jails, and the transportation company should be billed
for the cost. But Mr. Kenney said such a proposal was not feasible because the
nation's prisons were extremely overcrowded.

"It would create a tremendous logistic problem," he said. "We would have to be
identifying space all over the place for whoever comes in. This is an
extraordinary circumstance. Is it going to work equally well in other
circumstances? I don't know if you can say that."

He said that without revising the law, it would also be difficult for his agency
to write regulations governing how stowaways should be treated in custody. There
are no rules now, and the private companies are often so worried about incurring
fines and liability if stowaways escape that they guard them closely. Congress
may hold hearings on this issue this summer.

The Government forces shipping companies and airlines to take responsibility for
stowaways to insure that the companies do everything possible to prevent them.
The Romanians were kept in leg shackles in hotels near Newark International
Airport for more than a month, during which time they were rarely allowed to
leave their rooms. Three of them did escape through a bathroom window at one of
the hotels, and Sea-Land was fined $9,000.

Christopher L. Koch, senior vice president at Sea-Land, one the largest shipping
companies in the world, said the company was asked to remove the Romanians from
the Howard Johnson Plaza Hotel earlier this week because of news reports about
their detainment. No other hotels would take them, he said.

Prison Space Located

The Immigration and Naturalization Service then found room for them at the
Snyder County prison in Selinsgrove, Pa., where the United States Marshal
Service often rents space for its detainees. On Thursday, the Romanians -- 17
men and one woman -- were moved to the prison, where they will stay until their
requests for political asylum are completed, Mr. Koch said.

He said the prison will cost Sea-Land about $60 a day per person, or a total of
about $7,500 a week, far less than the $30,000 to $60,000 a week the company was
paying to detain the stowaways in hotels under the watch of a private security
service.

"There was so much attention and controversy about them," Mr. Koch said. "We
would prefer not to be in the business of being charged with the detention
responsibilities."

He said the transferring of the Romanians to the prison in central Pennsylvania
would not impede their legal proceedings. Of the 18 stowaways, 17 have had their
requests for political asylum rejected and are reportedly appealing. He said the
appeals process involves only a review of records, so the stowaways do not need
to be in Newark, where they were brought last month to be near Sea-Land's
headquarters.

Concerns for Safety

But Frank Schorn, a lawyer at the New York Association of New Americans, a
nonprofit agency for immigrants, said the move would hinder his ability to help
two of the stowaways. He added that while he was relieved that the Romanians
were no longer in shackles, he was still anxious about their safety.

"I don't know what the conditions are in the facility, but I am concerned that
anyone who has a legitimate application for asylum should be mixed in with the
criminal population," he said.

He said that even though the Romanians were out of the hotel, the legal basis
for holding them had not changed.

Sea-Land has not allowed reporters to interview the Romanians, but an
interpreter who talked to them earlier this week said they were unhappy and
scared that they would be in detention for many months.

"They have big hopes that their situation is going to be settled, that they will
be accepted," he said, speaking on condition of anonymity. "When they were in
their hotel room, they saw the Twin Towers, but they kept asking me where the
Statue of Liberty was. For every immigrant to this country, that is the sign
that they have arrived."

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 22, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Move in California to Bar Service to Aliens

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 18;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1096 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 21


A ballot initiative that would deny public education and non-emergency medical
care to illegal aliens in California is the latest and one of the most drastic
attempts to curb illegal immigration and its costs.

Backers of the petition drive, "Save Our State," say they have gathered 600,000
signatures, with those of 384,974 registered voters required to place the
proposal on the ballot. Voter registrars have until Tuesday to verify
signatures, and if the requirement is met, voters will consider the measure in
November.

In addition to cutting off free social services, the proposal would require
teachers, health care workers and the police to report the presence of any
"apparent illegal immigrants" they deal with.

Without these services, argued Harold Ezell, one of the initiative's authors and
a former Western regional chief of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
illegal aliens would "go back to where they came from."

Hurdles Even if Approved

Opponents of the proposal acknowledge that they will have a difficult time
defeating it.

Even if it is adopted, hurdles await. Civil rights groups say the authorities
will find it difficult to demand documents of "apparent illegal immigrants"
without engaging in racial discrimination.

In addition, the United States Supreme Court has ruled that public schools must
educate children regardless of their immigration status. The chairman of the
petition drive, Ron Prince, said the proposed measure would offer a promising
vehicle for the Court to reverse its position.

Mr. Prince said that the composition of the Court had changed since its ruling
on the issue in 1982 and that the ruling had been based on immigration
conditions that had changed.

Illegal aliens are already ineligible for welfare and most other public
assistance in California. The measure would not deny emergency care, including
that for childbirth.

Clash of Philosophies

Already, arguments over the Save Our State initiative have crystallized a clash
of philosophies over immigration that has been growing in the nation's border
states.

"It's obvious we cannot assimilate all of the illegals in the world," Mr. Ezell
said. "How many can we educate, medicate, incarcerate and compensate? Just
because they are here illegally doesn't mean they have a right to stay here and
a right to our tax dollars."

Mr. Prince placed the proposal in a purely economic context, saying, "The
initiative is needed because the state is going bankrupt."

But Arturo Vargas, a lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said the measure would require doctors, teachers and police
officers to be "agents of a Big Brother state" by making them verify the
immigration status of people they serve.

Despite the backers' assurances that the proposal is racially and ethnically
colorblind, Mr. Vargas said it would target Hispanic immigrants, who make up the
vast majority of illegal aliens in California.

Mr. Vargas also questioned the assertion that people would stop coming to the
United States illegally if the benefits were cut. "That's not why they come," he
said. "It would create an underground situation with people living in the
shadows of our society."

'Too Willing to Pander'

The political tide seems to be running against opponents of the measure. As the
state's economy recovers sluggishly from recession, the state's politicians,
Democrats and Republicans alike, remind Californians that the state has already
absorbed more than one-third of the country's legal immigrants and more than
half its international refugees.

California is also home to a huge proportion of the country's estimated 3.5
million illegal aliens. In San Diego County, which borders Mexico, an estimated
200,000 people, or 9 percent of the population, are in this country illegally.

"I blame the political leadership that has been all too willing to pander on
this issue and allow people to believe that if we would just deny education and
emergency health care to illegal aliens, all these lost aerospace and
manufacturing jobs would return," said Robert Rubin, a spokesman for the Lawyers
Committee for Civil Rights, based in San Francisco.

Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who faces a difficult re-election campaign this
fall, turned up the heat on this issue last August with a proposal to withhold
health care and schooling from illegal aliens and to deny citizenship to any
children who might be born to them in the United States. The citizenship
proposal would require a constitutional amendment.

A Los Angeles Times poll last September found that 86 percent of Californians
considered illegal immigration to be a problem of moderate-to-major proportion.
Seventy-six percent said they believed that illegal aliens cost more in social
services and health care than they contributed in taxes and productivity. Two
months ago, another Los Angeles Times poll found that 62 percent of respondents
favored the Save Our State initiative.

The state Republican Party helped to finance the petition drive, but neither it
nor Governor Wilson has taken an official position on the measure.

Most Democrats in the latest poll joined most Republicans in supporting the
initiative. But the State Democratic Party has not taken a position on it.
Opponents of the measure said the party was more likely to emphasize border
controls and sanctions on employers who hire undocumented workers.

The state's two United States Senators, both Democrats from the San Francisco
Bay area, have contributed strong language on the issue, but more modest
proposals. Senator Barbara Boxer urged the use of the National Guard to patrol
the border with Mexico, and Senator Dianne Feinstein called for a $1
border-crossing fee to pay for tougher policing of the border.

A Crucial Question

A crucial issue at the heart of the ballot initiative is how educators, health
care workers and the police would determine "apparent illegal immigrants"
without engaging in racial discrimination.

Mr. Vargas, the defense fund lawyer, said, "I could easily foresee a situation
where I myself -- I'm very Mexican-looking, yet I'm a second-generation United
States citizen -- where I myself could be subject to demonstrating that I am a
citizen of this country merely because I am brown-skinned, black-haired and have
a mustache."

But Mr. Ezell brushed aside such concerns. "All we're saying is, 'Ask,' " he
said. "It's O.K. to ask. We're not after any color skin. Just ask. It seems like
it ought to be O.K. to ask. So what's the big deal?"


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Mexico's Position on Aliens Contradicted by Past Deeds

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words


Despite its recent declarations that Mexico will never act as an agent of
American immigration policy, the Mexican Government has for years been quietly
deporting undocumented aliens heading to the United States.

For at least the last three years, Congress has appropriated $350,000 a year to
pay Mexico for its costs in deporting residents of third countries passing
through Mexico on the way to the United States.

In the past, most were from Central America.

But in April a boatload of about 300 Chinese bound for San Francisco made it to
an inlet near Ensenada, Mexico, where Mexican authorities found them locked in a
smuggler's safe house.

Delayed Flight Back Home

Using the money provided by the United States, Mexico chartered a plane to
repatriate all but six of the Chinese. A United Nations official determined that
the six had valid claims of political asylum.

The United States, however, refused to grant the plane landing rights to refuel
in Alaska because officials feared that the Chinese would claim political asylum
on American soil.

While the issue of landing rights was debated, about 100 of the Chinese escaped
from a crowded hangar at the airport in Mexicali, about 80 miles northeast of
Ensenada on the United States border. All but a few were caught by American
officials and detained. The remaining Chinese, about 200, were returned to their
homeland after the Mexican plane secured permission to refuel in Europe.

Rift in Diplomacy

The quiet but rocky arrangement between the United States and Mexico was noisily
thrust into the open in the last week. Mexican officials learned from American
newspapers, rather than through diplomatic overtures, that the United States
wanted them to accept and then deport 659 Chinese who had been intercepted at
sea by the United States Coast Guard and escorted to within 60 miles of
Ensenada.

It was a breach of protocol, and Mexican officials publicly took offense,
defending their country's sovereignty.

"Of all the countries to ask to do this, Mexico must be the least appropriate,"
a senior Mexican Foreign Ministry official said. "I don't think it is Mexico's
place, nor do I think anybody reasonably expects Mexico to become an arm of the
U.S. immigration service."

Victor Spencer, a spokesman for the Mexican Foreign Ministry, said yesterday
that the ministry had no immediate comment on its stance on accepting American
financing.

American immigration officials prefer to prevent boat people from landing in the
United States because once in this country they have the right to pursue claims
of political asylum that can take years to resolve. Federal law and an
international treaty to which the United States is a party prohibit the
deportation of aliens without a hearing on their claims.

Mexico has never signed the international treaty. And advocates for refugees
charge that the Mexican Government, which has historically prided itself on an
open-arms policy toward refugees, has recently treated many potential applicants
for asylum, particularly Central Americans, summarily, even abusively.

Moreover, these advocates have been alarmed by the agreement between the United
States and Mexico. "We have been paying -- and continue to pay -- for
deportations from a country that doesn't show any respect for the basic human
rights of refugees," said Bill Frelick, senior policy analyst with the United
States Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group based in Washington.

In addition to Mexico, the Clinton Administration has enlisted the cooperation
of other foreign governments in keeping potential applicants for political
asylum from reaching the United States.

In April, for instance, a boatload of Chinese bound for the United States was
intercepted by the Coast Guard 200 miles off Honduras. The boat, registered in
Honduras, was allowed to land in Honduras, and two lawyers from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service flew there to interview the Chinese. The lawyers
determined that five of them were political refugees, a former Government
official deeply involved in immigration matters said, and that about 40 others
had claims worth pursing.

But United Nations officials in Geneva, who had final say in the matter,
determined that none of the Chinese qualified as political refugees, and
Honduras returned them to China at American expense.

Crucial Court Ruling

Immigration experts expect that the United States will continue to seek other
countries' cooperation in helping to process and repatriate illegal aliens bound
for the United States. Indeed, a new Administration policy calls for the
interdiction and "redirection" of boats smuggling aliens.

The Supreme Court ruled recently that Federal and international laws prohibiting
the summary return of aliens do not apply to those stopped in international
waters or outside the United States. And immigration experts believe that ruling
has emboldened the Administration.

Some human-rights advocates are concerned that the Government is pushing the
limits of its powers in seizing and redirecting foreign vessels. The United
States, through a treaty with the Haitian Government, has permission to
interdict only Haitian boats.

In the latest case, a State Department official, Joseph Snyder, said one boat
captain gave the Coast Guard permission to take control. Because the other boats
were believed to be registered in Taiwan, the Government asked the Taiwan
Government for permission to board them. Taiwan officials said they could not
confirm that the boats were indeed were sailing under a Taiwanese flag "but that
they had no problems with the Coast Guard boarding and inspecting them," Mr.
Snyder said.

Lucas Guttentag, an immigration expert at the American Civil Liberties Union,
questioned the Government's actions of the past week. "Is the U.S. Government
obfuscating or blatantly violating the international law of the seas?" he asked.
"This would seem to come perilously close to piracy."


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 16, 1993, Friday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about other countries' repatriation of aliens bound for the
United States misstated the circumstances of the fatal shooting of a Chinese
alien in Honduras in some editions. According to a former American official, he
was killed at a detention center, not while boarding a plane for repatriation.


                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico's Position on Aliens Contradicted by Past Deeds

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1000 words


Despite its recent declarations that Mexico will never act as an agent of
American immigration policy, the Mexican Government has for years been quietly
deporting undocumented aliens heading to the United States.

For at least the last three years, Congress has appropriated $350,000 a year to
pay Mexico for its costs in deporting residents of third countries passing
through Mexico on the way to the United States.

In the past, most were from Central America.

But in April a boatload of about 300 Chinese bound for San Francisco made it to
an inlet near Ensenada, Mexico, where Mexican authorities found them locked in a
smuggler's safe house.

Delayed Flight Back Home

Using the money provided by the United States, Mexico chartered a plane to
repatriate all but six of the Chinese. A United Nations official determined that
the six had valid claims of political asylum.

The United States, however, refused to grant the plane landing rights to refuel
in Alaska because officials feared that the Chinese would claim political asylum
on American soil.

While the issue of landing rights was debated, about 100 of the Chinese escaped
from a crowded hangar at the airport in Mexicali, about 80 miles northeast of
Ensenada on the United States border. All but a few were caught by American
officials and detained. The remaining Chinese, about 200, were returned to their
homeland after the Mexican plane secured permission to refuel in Europe.

Rift in Diplomacy

The quiet but rocky arrangement between the United States and Mexico was noisily
thrust into the open in the last week. Mexican officials learned from American
newspapers, rather than through diplomatic overtures, that the United States
wanted them to accept and then deport 659 Chinese who had been intercepted at
sea by the United States Coast Guard and escorted to within 60 miles of
Ensenada.

It was a breach of protocol, and Mexican officials publicly took offense,
defending their country's sovereignty.

"Of all the countries to ask to do this, Mexico must be the least appropriate,"
a senior Mexican Foreign Ministry official said. "I don't think it is Mexico's
place, nor do I think anybody reasonably expects Mexico to become an arm of the
U.S. immigration service."

Victor Spencer, a spokesman for the Mexican Foreign Ministry, said yesterday
that the ministry had no immediate comment on its stance on accepting American
financing.

American immigration officials prefer to prevent boat people from landing in the
United States because once in this country they have the right to pursue claims
of political asylum that can take years to resolve. Federal law and an
international treaty to which the United States is a party prohibit the
deportation of aliens without a hearing on their claims.

Mexico has never signed the international treaty. And advocates for refugees
charge that the Mexican Government, which has historically prided itself on an
open-arms policy toward refugees, has recently treated many potential applicants
for asylum, particularly Central Americans, summarily, even abusively.

Moreover, these advocates have been alarmed by the agreement between the United
States and Mexico. "We have been paying -- and continue to pay -- for
deportations from a country that doesn't show any respect for the basic human
rights of refugees," said Bill Frelick, senior policy analyst with the United
States Committee for Refugees, an advocacy group based in Washington.

In addition to Mexico, the Clinton Administration has enlisted the cooperation
of other foreign governments in keeping potential applicants for political
asylum from reaching the United States.

In April, for instance, a boatload of Chinese bound for the United States was
intercepted by the Coast Guard 200 miles off Honduras. The boat, registered in
Honduras, was allowed to land in Honduras, and two lawyers from the Immigration
and Naturalization Service flew there to interview the Chinese. The lawyers
determined that five of them were political refugees, a former Government
official deeply involved in immigration matters said, and that about 40 others
had claims worth pursing.

But United Nations officials in Geneva, who had final say in the matter,
determined that none of the Chinese qualified as political refugees, and
Honduras returned them to China at American expense.

Crucial Court Ruling

Immigration experts expect that the United States will continue to seek other
countries' cooperation in helping to process and repatriate illegal aliens bound
for the United States. Indeed, a new Administration policy calls for the
interdiction and "redirection" of boats smuggling aliens.

The Supreme Court ruled recently that Federal and international laws prohibiting
the summary return of aliens do not apply to those stopped in international
waters or outside the United States. And immigration experts believe that ruling
has emboldened the Administration.

Some human-rights advocates are concerned that the Government is pushing the
limits of its powers in seizing and redirecting foreign vessels. The United
States, through a treaty with the Haitian Government, has permission to
interdict only Haitian boats.

In the latest case, a State Department official, Joseph Snyder, said one boat
captain gave the Coast Guard permission to take control. Because the other boats
were believed to be registered in Taiwan, the Government asked the Taiwan
Government for permission to board them. Taiwan officials said they could not
confirm that the boats were indeed were sailing under a Taiwanese flag "but that
they had no problems with the Coast Guard boarding and inspecting them," Mr.
Snyder said.

Lucas Guttentag, an immigration expert at the American Civil Liberties Union,
questioned the Government's actions of the past week. "Is the U.S. Government
obfuscating or blatantly violating the international law of the seas?" he asked.
"This would seem to come perilously close to piracy."


LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 22, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

On-the-Spot Hearings for Aliens Are Considered

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words


As part of its effort to crack down on illegal immigration, the Clinton
Administration is expected to announce a plan this week to create a kind of
night court for aliens, dispensing instant justice for those who arrive without
proper documents and request political asylum.

The plan calls for an on-the-spot administrative hearing -- and then a quick
appeal, if requested -- at all ports of entry. It also calls for the speedy
deportation of those who do not demonstrate a "credible fear" of persecution in
their home country. Major international airports, especially John F. Kennedy in
New York, would have a special staff, while other ports of entry would rely on
"circuit riders" who would go where needed.

The plan, drawn up in response to public outrage over the perceived abuse of the
political-asylum system, is expected to be introduced as a compromise bill by
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. Mr. Kennedy is chairman of the Judiciary
Committee's Immigration and Refugee Affairs Subcommittee, and Mr. Simpson is the
ranking Republican.

As word of the plan began circulating in Washington, advocates for refugees as
well as those who favor stricter immigration policies were equally skeptical of
the plan.

Among the advocates, Warren Leiden, executive director of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association, said the plan went too far, "creating an
unacceptable risk that bona fide refugees will be returned to persecution by
error."

But James Dorcy, senior lobbyist for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, said the plan, while "a step in the right direction," does not go far
enough, "leaving far too many loopholes and too much leniency for the alien."

Had the plan been in place when the Coast Guard intercepted three boats carrying
659 undocumented Chinese in the Pacific two weeks ago, the Clinton
Administration might have avoided embarrassment and diplomatic tensions with
Mexico, which was asked to deport the immigrants.

Instead of keeping the Chinese aboard the cramped ships while their fate was
negotiated with Mexico, the Administration could have brought them to San Diego
and processed their asylum claims in just days.

Wouldn't Help Backlog

But the bill does not address -- and could temporarily worsen -- the nemesis of
the political-asylum system: a growing backlog, now at 300,000 cases. Rather,
the bill focuses on what the public perceives to be the system's primary flaw:
exploitation of the asylum system as a way to enter the country by air or by
sea, receive working papers and stay for years while claims are processed and
appealed.

Following both the grounding off Queens of the Golden Venture freighter loaded
with Chinese asylum seekers and the disclosure that a suspect in the World Trade
Center bombing had fraudulently entered the country by claiming political
asylum, abuse of the asylum system has grown to symbolize a lack of American
control over its own borders -- although most undocumented migrants slip in
across the nation's land borders, where 1.1 million illegal aliens were caught
last year.

In addition, only a fraction of asylum seekers make their request when they are
caught at an airport or other port of entry; most enter legally and overstay
visas, or cross the borders undetected. Only 14,000 immigrants sought asylum at
airports last year; about 104,000 immigrants applied for asylum once they were
safely in the country.

"This bill gets at a sliver of the problem," said a senior Senate aide involved
in immigration. "To us, it's like a boil that needs lancing."

Cost Not Yet Estimated

While more asylum officers, appeals officers, interpreters and detention space
would inevitably be needed, the final draft of the bill so far includes no
authorization for financing the new system. It also appears to divert the more
experienced asylum officers from the 150-member asylum corps, which is already
overwhelmed, to the airports.

Advocates for immigrants believe that inefficient management and paltry
resources, not leniency or due process, are at fault for the program's weakness.
They insist that the humanitarian impulse behind the asylum program should not
be abandoned.

"The new proposal is distressing in its ungenerosity," said Arthur C. Helton,
immigration expert at the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights.

Drafted by Congressional staffs and a task force from the Justice Department,
the State Department, the Office of Management and Budget, and the White House,
the plan sets no time limit for the exclusion of undocumented or falsely
documented aliens. But the intention is to repatriate them within days.

The Administration-backed plan guarantees more legal protection for the asylum
seeker than an earlier bill introduced by Senator Simpson, although not enough
to satisfy some.

For instance, the plan calls for screening by asylum officers with a year's
experience, rather than by entry-level inspectors, as proposed by Mr. Simpson.
It also requires the aliens to demonstrate "credible fear" of persecution; the
asylum officers, based on impressions of the applicant and knowledge of the home
country, would judge the "substantial likelihood" that the applicants were
truthful. If denied asylum, the applicants could, unlike under Mr. Simpson's
proposal, request a second opinion from another Justice Department official.

But if the applicants, locked in detention quarters during their appeals, were
again denied asylum, they would not be permitted to seek further review of their
cases by a Federal judge. They would then be repatriated within about 10 days of
their arrival, if the plan worked.

Mr. Dorcy of the Federation for American Immigration Reform said he believed the
standard for being granted admission to the country was too soft, and the second
opinion unnecessary. "I think a properly coached individual could find as much
opportunity to linger as now," he said.

On the other hand, advocates for refugees said that the standard was too
stringent and that only frivolous, patently abusive claims should be weeded out.
They also found the lack of judicial review unconscionable.

The fate of Ho Guo Xiang, for instance, was completely altered when Federal
District Judge Edward B. Davis in Miami halted his deportation and ordered that
his appeal for asylum be reheard.

Mr. Ho, a Chinese fisherman held in a Miami detention center for a year, had
mistakenly been told by immigration officials the day before his political
asylum hearing that he was to be deported, according to court papers. Panicked,
Mr. Ho attempted suicide by slashing his wrists. He was bandaged, then given
maximum doses of two tranquilizers and kept in restraints until 45 minutes
before his hearing.

Mr. Ho's lawyer was not told that he had been drugged and did not question his
client's sluggish behavior. The lawyer did not provide evidence that the Chinese
government prosecuted people like Mr. Ho, who helped pro-democracy students flee
the country in his boat and was later forced to escape himself. Nor did the
lawyer provide a translation of a letter from Mr. Ho's mother testifying that
the police were after him.

Mr. Ho was denied asylum, denied appeal and ordered deported until a new lawyer,
Joan Friedland, took his case for judicial review before Judge Davis.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 26, 1993, Monday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about a Federal plan to
create night courts to handle illegal immigration cases referred incorrectly in
some editions to the site of the grounding of the Golden Venture, a freighter
loaded with Chinese asylum seekers. It was off Queens, not Brooklyn.


                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 26, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 52 words


Because of an editing error, an article on Thursday about a Federal plan to
create night courts to handle illegal immigration cases referred incorrectly in
some editions to the site of the grounding of the Golden Venture, a freighter
loaded with Chinese asylum seekers. It was off Queens, not Brooklyn.

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Hunger On the Farm

BYLINE: By Ray Marshall;  Ray Marshall, Secretary of Labor under President Jimmy
Carter, is professor of economics and public affairs at the University of Texas.

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 685 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.


Even at the height of the harvest season, around one-third of American farm
workers are unable to find jobs. Although the Federal Commission on Agricultural
Workers reported this spring that there were surpluses of farm workers all
across the nation, the Labor Department continues to allow growers to employ
about 19,000 temporary agricultural workers from Mexico and the Caribbean. These
jobs can and should be filled by domestic workers.

The "H-2A" visa program, which is part of the immigration law, allows
agricultural employers to temporarily hire resident foreign workers (although
not illegal aliens) when they can't find American citizens for the job. The law
also requires growers to offer the aliens wages and working conditions
comparable to those available to domestic workers.

During the Reagan-Bush era, however, the Labor Department consistently refused
to enforce these standards. Many growers began paying these workers
substantially less than they do citizens. And in 1987, the Reagan Administration
lowered the wages of aliens nationwide by about 20 percent. Farm wages dropped
nationwide and thousands of citizens lost jobs.

The H-2A program exempts growers from Social Security or unemployment tax
payments. It guarantees a strong, young work force that they can select without
regard to anti-discrimination laws. And they can rely on immigration officials
to deport workers who are fired for any reason.

Growers can also use any pretext to dismiss domestic farm workers who refuse to
work under squalid conditions or who don't meet unreasonable production quotas.

To make matters worse, growers and their lawyers have developed legal tactics to
evade the program's meager worker protections. In the East Coast apple areas,
the Reagan Labor Department permitted growers to switch from a per-apple pay
rate to an hourly wage in order to circumvent a Federal court order that
required increases in the piece rate.

In Florida, sugar cane workers are commonly paid up to $40 one day for cutting
eight tons of cane (a typical daily quota) and as little as $25 the next day for
cutting the same amount. Workers are not told how their wages are calculated,
and they have no way of knowing whether they are being cheated. The companies
claim the rate system can't be explained in objective terms because the pay
depends on conditions in the field that only a foreman can assess.

For the companies' purposes, however, the rate is remarkably predictable. Before
the season begins, the companies budget a fixed wage amount per ton of cane cut
and year after year they generally come within a few pennies of hitting their
target. Still, the Labor Department under Ronald Reagan and George Bush accepted
the companies' argument and refused to regulate payment at a per ton rate. The
Clinton Labor Department may well take a different stand. It has agreed to
decide whether this shell game comports with the law. If it decides against the
sugar companies, they may owe their workers tens of millions of dollars in back
pay.

The visa program is an object lesson in poor labor policy. As a captive work
force, the alien workers can't bargain for decent wages or go to a different
employer. To solve this, before resorting to foreign workers, employers should
be forced to make good-faith efforts at recruiting American citizens, at decent
wages and under civilized working conditions. Employers should not be allowed to
establish unreasonable production requirements that can only be met by young
foreign workers, who are forced to work scared and hard to avoid deportation.

It would be much better policy to have the Labor Department recruit U.S.
citizens for available work. If the Government can locate enough U.S. workers
for a given harvest, the grower should be prohibited from hiring aliens for the
job.

Unless the Labor Department curbs these abuses, it will contribute to the
poverty of thousands of American farm workers. And the problems will spread as
employers in other industries learn that they too can hire temporary foreign
workers at substandard wage rates.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Housekeeper Doesn't Matter at Pentagon

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 3; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 221 words


To the Editor:

The public outrage over Zoe Baird's failure to pay taxes for an illegal alien
housekeeper was relevant to the position for which Ms. Baird was nominated. As
Attorney General, she would have overseen immigration legislation. The average
American should be able to assume the person taking this office knows the
relevant laws. If Zoe Baird was unfamiliar with the legislation, we should
question her qualifications. If she knowingly broke this law, she should not
oversee immigration laws.

Enter Bobby Ray Inman, respected by the Defense Department, the Clinton
Administration and, says the press, everyone who knows him. No one doubts his
credentials or capacity to be Secretary of Defense. No act of his has given
ground to question his understanding of the post. Yes, he did not pay taxes on
his housekeeper after the Zoe Baird affair. He was looking to a coming
Congressional decision to see if he could pay less in back taxes. So he is
fallible. Do you honestly believe this should keep him from being appointed?

Stop using the she or he didn't pay taxes for the illegal alien housekeeper
routine for appointments where it has no relevance. If Mr. Inman smoked
marijuana, yet he was now to be in charge of drug interdiction, let us know
about it.

DEBBIE FRANK
Washington, Dec. 22, 1993

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 23, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Aid Sought For Jailing Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 8;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 390 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22


President Clinton asked Congress today to appropriate $350 million to help
states pay the costs of imprisoning illegal immigrants convicted of felonies.

For states with large numbers of illegal immigrants, particularly California,
New York, New Jersey, Florida, Texas, Illinois and Arizona, the costs of
incarcerating thousands of aliens as felons runs to hundreds of millions of
dollars a year.

Governors and members of Congress from those states say the Federal Government
should pay for those prison costs because it is responsible for policing the
nation's borders.

"When people enter this country illegally and commit crimes while they are here,
it is not fair to ask the states to bear the entire cost of their imprisonment,"
Mr. Clinton said in a prepared statement. "This new program will help them
considerably."

Suit Filed by Florida

The White House proposal, if adopted by Congress, might cover as little as half
the states' costs, according to some estimates. Leon E. Panetta, the director of
the Office of Management and Budget, said today that the $350 million was only
"a ballpark figure," and an aide to Mr. Panetta said that "$350 million seemed
at the very low end of what the cost is likely to be for the states."

The State of Florida has filed a Federal lawsuit against the Administration
seeking $1.5 billion to help pay for services provided to illegal immigrants,
including education and health services, as well as for the costs of prosecuting
and jailing those who commit crimes. California is considering a similar suit.

Mr. Panetta said today that the proposal had been under consideration for more
than a year and had not been devised and announced to fend off such lawsuits.

The White House portrayed the proposal as one of several "major steps" the
Administration was taking against illegal immigration, including increasing the
number of Border Patrol agents and stepping up enforcement of laws against
employers who hire illegal aliens.

The issue of paying for incarcerated aliens has been argued during the debate
over the new crime bill in Congress. The bill approved by the House this week
requires the Government to reimburse the states for the full cost of imprisoned
illegal immigrants beginning in 1999. The Senate budget resolution has similar,
but not identical, language.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Pushing Against Tide at Mexico Border

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS, Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1179 words

DATELINE: SAN YSIDRO, Calif., Feb. 13


Even the illegal immigrants who run through the gullies here to cross the border
from Mexico have noticed the flurry of activity. "They've been asking us, 'Hey,
what's going on?' " said Joe Ralph, one of the overworked Border Patrol agents
who spend the dark nights catching them, sending them back, then catching them
when they cross again.

Cameras, television crews, politicians. New lighting, new tactics, and a
10-foot-high steel wall begun in the Bush Administration and just completed runs
14 miles and extends across the beach and into the surf of the Pacific Ocean.
The strip of land along the border near San Diego has become the symbol of a
losing national battle against illegal immigration and the focus of new measures
to try to control it.

Illegal immigration has become a volatile issue in California, which continues
to struggle with a sagging economy. As he seeks re-election this fall, Gov. Pete
Wilson, a Republican, has taken the lead in citing illegal immigration as a
source of the state's problems, and he has proposed a crackdown that would deny
government benefits to undocumented immigrants.  The state's two Democratic
Senators have put forward their own proposals: Dianne Feinstein would charge a
$1 border toll to pay for more border control agents, and even the liberal
Barbara Boxer has proposed deploying the National Guard along the border.

This month, the Clinton Administration outlined new steps to bolster the Border
Patrol and tighten the porous frontier in the most energetic attempt to address
the problem since a 1986 law that prohibited the hiring of illegal aliens but
failed to turn the tide.

Sending Reinforcements

Reacting to the growing anti-immigrant passions in this politically crucial
state, the Administration plans to add 400 agents to the 1,000 now assigned to
the San Diego sector. This 14-mile stretch accounted for about half the one
million arrests last year along the 2,000-mile Mexican border.

Grateful as they are for the manpower and for badly needed new equipment that is
also promised, agents here take the sober view of front-line combat veterans.
"We'll do our best with whatever you give us," said Ann Summers, a Border Patrol
spokeswoman. "But as long as there are two countries sharing a border where one
is a major world power and the other is a third world nation, you are going to
continue to have this influx of people."

As Agent Ralph puts it, pausing out of breath in the moonlight as another group
of immigrants outruns him and crashes through the underbrush: "There's no end to
it. We call it the balloon effect. You squeeze it here, it just goes over
there."

'I'll Be Back'

Juan Miranda-Olvera, an 18-year-old resident of Tijuana was seized as he crossed
to visit his uncle. As he sat by a dusty trail wearing white plastic handcuffs,
he told Agent Ralph: "It doesn't matter how many times you catch me. I'll be
back."

In two long nights along the border, Agent Ralph and his colleagues described
their work as an exhilarating, exhausting and ultimately demoralizing exercise
shaped by the futility of trying to stem the flow of illegal immigrants. As if
playing a giant and remarkably organized game of capture the flag, the agents on
one side and the immigrant-smugglers on the other matched wits and tactics
without any major victories or losses.

"At first I used to get really frustrated," said another agent, John Anderson,
who like many recruits joined the Border Patrol fired with idealism as
protectors of the frontiers. "Now I just try to have as much fun as I can."

The "fun" begins at dusk, with hundreds of immigrants clustered on the Mexican
side of the border near gaps in the fencing at gullies like Smugglers Gulch, at
a giant sewage pipe and along the fetid banks of the Tijuana River, where women
sell plastic bags to protect the feet and legs of immigrants who choose to try
wading across.

Games in the Dark

A Border Patrol agent has driven his pale green van up a dirt trail to the top
of Goat Canyon to see how "the traffic" of immigrants is shaping up tonight.
And the smugglers, who charge about $200 to guide immigrants across the border,
are deploying their own spies.

"They'll send spotters up on top and they'll try to see where we're inserting,"
Agent Ralph said. "Then they'll go the other way. We'll send an agent up there
and run their spotters back."

As the cat-and-mouse game continues through the night, the agents tracking the
immigrants with an infrared scope, and the immigrants conceal themselves in
underbrush and along riverbanks. The agents set traps; the smugglers send out
decoys. The immigrants rush the fences when the agents are scheduled to change
shifts; the agents delay their shift change.

Over the years, said Supervisory Patrol Agent Steven P. Kean, attempts to
control the border have involved an unending series of new ploys, each of which
has been answered with new tactics by the smugglers: a six-mile ditch, a
chicken-wire fence, the new steel wall, the addition of an angled overhang to
the wall, the further addition of steel plating on the ground where tunnels were
being dug.

Sisyphean Task

New tactics can change the patterns of the crossings, he said, but have not
affected the overall numbers. Because of the natural terrain left gaps in the
new fencing, it has funneled the immigrants toward more open areas where they
are easier to catch, and more of the captures are being made closer to the
border. Increased aggressiveness in the San Diego area has put greater pressure
on El Paso.

But overall, he said, "The numbers of agents have not significantly affected
apprehension rates." Similarly, the 1986 Immigration Control and Reform Act,
which sanctioned employers for hiring undocumented workers and granted amnesty
to millions of immigrants, did depress the numbers of crossings at first, but
they have climbed again to their earlier levels.

The unending nature of the battle takes a toll on the agents, Agent Kean said,
with an annual attrition rate of 12 percent. "You're dealing with that idealism
and learning how to cope with it," he said. "You have to come to a realization
that there's a balance to be made. There's got to be limits. The economy would
break down if we just opened up our borders. If we weren't here, how many people
would cross? At least five times as many."

Agent Ralph, a six-year Border Patrol veteran at the age of 34, said he had his
moments of self-doubt. "A lot of times I've sat down and wondered, am I doing
the right thing?" he said. "I think, jeez, these are just poor people trying to
feed their families." There are times, he said, when immigrants, reading his
identification tag, address him by name and implore his mercy, and his heart is
tugged.

But at other times, he said: "There are days when you're just fed up and you
want to catch everyone you can.  You're exhausted. You've fallen down.  People
are swearing at you, spitting at you, and they're just out of reach. And you
just want to bag them all and send them back."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: With California's economy sagging, illegal immigration has
become a volatile issue. The Clinton Administration plans to deploy more
immigration agents along the Mexican border. Immigrants rested recently after
crossing the border near San Diego through a hole in a newly completed steel
wall. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

Map of California showing location of San Ysidro.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 8, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Politicians Discovering An Issue: Immigration

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 19;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1184 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, March 5


In the seven months since hundreds of Federal immigration agents were deployed
along the banks of the Rio Grande here, the traffic of illegal workers from
Mexico has all but stopped.

But the flow of politicians to the border here has surged: From across Texas,
Washington and California, Republicans and Democrats want to see, and be seen
at, a get-tough effort to control immigration.

"It's election time," Mayor Larry Francis of El Paso, an independent, said as he
took in the panoramic view of the border from his 10th-floor office, "and the
border is a hot topic."

Many Republicans have argued that both legal and illegal immigrants burden
American social services, while Democrats have played down the costs. But now,
even Democrats, who stayed clear of such debates as they relied on ethnic and
civil rights groups for support, are joining the chorus, albeit cautiously.

The politicians are prompted by polls showing that the issue is gaining in
importance among voters who, polls say, are increasingly worried about the
economic impact of immigrants and their effect on American culture.

Issue in Elections

The politics of immigration is getting even more attention because of big
elections this fall in New York, California, Florida, Illinois and Texas, which
get the greatest share of immigrants. Immigration is also taking a high profile
in Congress and the White House, where President Clinton, eager to appeal to
moderates, is calling the issue a priority.

But if many are calling for a more aggressive attitude toward immigrants, they
do not speak with one voice. Some politicians, particularly conservatives,
advocate not only intensified patrols of the borders but also curbing or
eliminating access to public services for illegal immigrants. Others, like
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, are also taking aim at legal
immigrants. Mr. Simpson introduced legislation this week to cut legal immigrants
into the United States to about 500,000 a year from 675,000.

Rather than emphasize legal immigration, the governors of New York, California,
Florida, Illinois and Texas -- all of whom are running for re-election this year
-- have focused on illegal immigrants. Asserting that their actions are driven
by budgetary, not political, considerations, the governors have threatened to
sue the Federal Government for help in providing federally mandated services to
undocumented immigrants.

Even Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, a son of immigrants who is known for
praising immigrants, was more sober in a recent radio interview, saying: "They
are part of our great strength. They will be a nourishment for our future,"
adding, "They are also expensive."

Perilous Issue for Democrats

Immigration is especially perilous for Democrats as they seek to turn it to
their advantage -- or, at least, prevent Republicans from keeping the issue as
their own -- without alienating core supporters. The exception, of course, is
organized labor and increasingly blacks, who look wearily upon immigrants as
competition.

In Texas, where Democrats have historically welcomed immigrants to integrate the
border towns, Gov. Ann W. Richards has been particularly cautious; she needs to
keep her stronghold among Hispanic voters in South Texas to win re-election. But
her decision to join in the suit against the Federal Government shows how
serious the issue has become.

Mark McKinnon, a Democratic strategist in Austin, Tex., said: "Immigration is a
potential powder keg kind of issue. It plays to the politics of fear, and the
politics of fear can be very persuasive. You're hearing the Governor saying some
things now that she wasn't saying three years ago."

There is reason for concern. Both legal and illegal immigrants cost Texans more
than $4 billion in 1992 for education, health care and other services beyond
what they paid in taxes, according to a study published this week by Donald
Huddle, an economist at Rice University.

Fierce Oratory in California

Federico F. Pena, the Secretary of Transportation, is scheduled to come here
next week, the latest in a string of Administration officials and other
politicians who have applauded the United States Border Patrol for lining the
border with agents. The holes that aliens had punched into the border fences are
now repaired, and the crackdown has been well received by many here.

But even the Border Patrol is well aware of the sensitivities involved. The
program, originally called "Operation Blockade," has had its name changed to the
less intimidating "Operation Hold the Line."

The oratory is fiercest in California, where an anti-immigrant mood seems to
reflect that state's dire economic situation. Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, is
espousing the toughest controls. He called for a constitutional amendment to
deny citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants, which is now guaranteed
by law.

Such proposals do not play as well in other states, as Jim Mattox, a Senate
candidate in Tuesday's Texas primary, discovered. Early in the campaign, Mr.
Mattox, a Democrat, advocated stationing United States troops on the border as
part of an effort to use unneeded military assets in crime-fighting at home.
Hispanic voters, whom Mr. Mattox had been close to for years and who are an
important voting bloc in Texas, were furious. Mr. Mattox's Democratic rivals
attacked as well, forcing him to play down the issue.

Vanna Slaughter, coordinator of the Texas Immigration and Refugee Coalition, a
new statewide advocacy group for immigrants, said, "We were really quite
appalled by it because Jim Mattox for most of us has been a pretty friendly
individual."

Mr. Mattox defended his proposal, but acknowledged that he had underestimated
the reaction.

"My opponents said there would be tanks running up and down the border with
rifles aimed at everyone," he said in an interview. "You've got activists on all
sides who are trying to defend our current immigration policies, which are
impossible to defend."

As the United States continues to admit a record number of legal immigrants and
refugees, and they settle largely in relatively few states, the issue will only
intensify.

The Gallup Poll reported last year that 65 percent of Americans believe the
number of legal immigrants to the United States should be decreased, twice the
number who felt that way 30 years ago.

Bill Ong Hing, a professor at Stanford Law School who specializes in
immigration, said he feared that the rush to tighten immigration had resulted in
hastily drafted measures that penalize migrants for domestic economic problems
that were not their fault. "It's opportunism on the backs of immigrants," he
said.

But Representative Lamar Smith of San Antonio, chairman of the House Republican
task force on illegal immigration, says it will be hard to fight that attitude.

"Individuals who want to protect illegal aliens are going to be seen as people
who are putting the interests of illegal aliens ahead of the interests of
taxpayers and workers," Mr. Smith said. "And that's a dangerous position to be
in."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 4, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Beijing, Faulting U.S., Vows to Curb Migrants

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 204 words

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 3


The Government said today that it was working to stem the flow of illegal
Chinese immigrants to the United States but added that Washington should stop
offering political asylum as a temptation.

"The Chinese Government has all along been opposed to illegal immigration and
has adopted a series of measures to stop it," Wu Jianmin, a Foreign Ministry
spokesman, said at a news briefing. "Some people who have fled to other
countries illegally have applied for the so-called political asylum, and certain
countries have even granted such asylum to them. This has actually encouraged
the illegal human smuggling. We hope that such moves should stop."

On Wednesday, United States immigration officials arrested 270 Chinese trying to
sneak into California by trawler. About 1,600 illegal Chinese immigrants have
been reported intercepted by the United States Coast Guard this year, a sharp
increase over previous years.

Mr. Wu also said that Beijing was tightening security on its borders; that
public security officials were stepping up patrols of coastal areas, and that
the police were looking to track down criminal organizations that are suspected
of being behind the illegal immigration as a source of money.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Poll Finds Tide of Immigration Brings Hostility

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 26


With both legal and illegal immigration into the United States approaching
historic highs, a public reaction against immigration is also growing, the
latest New York Times/CBS News Poll shows.

After decades of heavy immigration that has included large numbers of Hispanic
laborers and Southeast Asian refugees, and at a time when many Americans are out
of work, a large majority of Americans surveyed said they favored a decrease in
immigration. Many cited the economy as a factor in their opinion.

The poll shows that anti-immigrant feelings are also colored by a perception --
contrary to the facts -- that most immigrants are in the United States
illegally. But the survey also shows that people are much more willing to
welcome immigrants when the issue is couched in personal terms.

Anti-Immigrant Trend

When asked whether immigration into the United States should be "kept at its
present level, increased or decreased," 61 percent of those answering the
national telephone survey last week preferred a decrease. That preference is up
from a 1986 Times/CBS News poll, when 49 percent favored a decrease.

One of the poll respondents, Dorothy Lepping, a 33-year-old postal worker in
East Stroudsburg, Pa., said her opinions had been shaped by the way she had seen
immigrants treated in her hometown. "I saw the amount of aid that went out to
them and the way that was abused," she said in a telephone interview after the
poll. "I feel that our economy is in a bad state and we should take care of our
own."

Such sentiments have grown over the decades. When the Gallup Poll posed the same
question in 1977, just 42 percent favored a decrease in immigration; in 1965,
when a new law ended four decades of low immigration, just 33 percent called for
a decrease.

Shifts in public attitudes seem to parallel changes in economic conditions. In
1965, the nation's unemployment rate fell to just over 4 percent, as compared
with the 6.9 percent reported for last May, and the economic growth rate then
was 5.6 percent, as compared with this year's forecast of 3.1 percent, a
prediction that may be scaled back.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, 8.9 million people have
immigrated legally into the United States over the past decade, and an estimated
3 million more have slipped into the country illegally. Immigration experts say
the numbers approach those of the great wave of European immigration at the turn
of the century and are the highest since comprehensive immigration laws were
enacted in 1924.

"What people are reacting to now is the reality of the past 20 to 25 years,"
said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a lobbying group that seeks to reduce immigration. "There are
unprecedented levels of immigration and the numbers are growing, and the
American people are saying, 'Enough is enough.' "

Economy Affects Opinions

The tightening economy also seems to be a major reason for the increasing
anti-immigration sentiment in the new poll, which was conducted Monday through
Thursday and questioned 1,363 adults nationwide. The poll has a margin of
sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points. The participants in the
1986 poll and last week's poll were asked, "Do you think that, in general, the
United States should welcome immigrants who come here with very little to try to
make a success of their lives, or are conditions here today too hard for this to
be practical?"

In the new poll, only 32 percent said the country should welcome immigrants,
while 60 percent said this was not practical because of hard conditions.

In 1986, when the same question was asked at a time when economic conditions
were better, 43 percent said the country should welcome immigrants,
approximately equal to the 45 percent who said it was not practical because of
hard conditions.

"If we had a robust economy, even a sustained high level of immigration would
not create much controversy," said Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugee
Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "I think if you look at the
development of immigration policy, the impact on the work place would emerge as
a decisive factor."

But only 36 percent of respondents last week and 34 percent in 1986 said they
believed that most immigrants "take jobs away from American citizens." In
contrast, 55 percent in the new poll and 52 percent in 1986 said immigrants
"mostly take jobs Americans don't want."

Black Point of View

Black Americans were nine percentage points more likely than whites to see
immigrants taking jobs away, but blacks were nine points less likely to prefer a
decrease in immigration than whites.

Another reason for the growing sentiment against immigration seems to be the
perception that most recent immigrants are here illegally. In the new poll, 68
percent agreed that "most of the people who have moved to the United States in
the last few years are here illegally." In 1986, that number was just 49
percent.

"If you can picture the image of the Statue of Liberty dissolving," Mr. Helton
said, "and being replaced by the image of the World Trade Center after it was
bombed, you have the sense of the negative trends in the current debate."

Other images of immigrants -- some unflattering and some more positive -- have
remained relatively stable over time. While 44 percent of the people surveyed in
1986 and about half of those asked in the recent poll said that most new
immigrants "cause problems," nearly half of the respondents in both polls said
that "today's immigrants work harder than people born here."

Mr. Mehlman said he was concerned that a backlash against immigration could lead
to increased acts of violence against immigrants, like those that have swept
Germany. But the new poll shows that while many Americans may be ready to slam
the country's door on immigrants, they remain unwilling to be personally rude to
them.

Asked what would happen "if some of today's new immigrants moved into your
neighborhood," 67 percent of respondents in the poll said the newcomers "would
be welcomed." In 1968, 68 percent offered a similar welcome.

"You want to give them a fair shake," Mrs. Lepping said.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Grahp: "Views on Immigration," shows results of survey on question
whether immigration into the United States should be kept at its present level
or decreased?, June 1965, March 1977, June 1986 and June 1993. (Source: Gallup
Organization (1965 and 1977); The New York Times and CBS News (1986 and 1993))
(pg. 16)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 11, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

3 Ships Adrift in a Diplomatic Limbo

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 803 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 10


More than 650 undocumented Chinese men and women remained aboard three rusty
tramp steamers about 60 miles west of Mexico's Pacific coast today as the
Clinton Administration tried to figure out what to do with the aliens without
either abandoning its new get-tough immigration policy or antagonizing the
Mexican Government.

On Friday night Mexico turned down a request by the United States for assistance
in dealing with the 659 illegal immigrants aboard the three ships.

The three are believed to be part of a seven-ship flotilla containing an
estimated 1,400 aliens who were planning to illegally enter the United States,
probably through Mexico. All seven are sailing under the flag of Taiwan.

When one ship's engine failed, the crew radioed for help on Tuesday. The United
States Coast Guard towed it to a point in international waters about 60 miles
west of Ensenada, Mexico, which is about 60 miles south of the United
States-Mexico border.

The Coast Guard then escorted two other ships to the same point, where it is now
providing the aliens with food and medical care while awaiting a decision from
Washington about whether to turn the ships back or allow them to land. The other
four ships are farther out to sea and still heading east.

Governments Still Cooperating

On Friday, United States officials asked Mexico to allow the Chinese aliens to
be brought to a Mexican port, where they could be interviewed by United Nations
officials to determine whether they are political refugees, who could ask for
asylum, or economic refugees, who would be repatriated.

The United States offered to help Mexico pay for the repatriations.

But on Friday night the Mexican Foreign Ministry, believed to be concerned about
the issue of Mexican sovereignty, delicately rejected the request, saying it was
"not in a position" to comply.

State Department officials in the United States, and diplomats in Mexico, said
today that despite that response, the two governments had continued discussing
ways to deal with the aliens.

"When you have interests that touch both countries, you keep on working," said a
senior American diplomat involved in the discussions here. The official refused
to describe the alternatives being discussed.

Stemming Flow of Boat People

Mexican Government officials were not available today, and a spokeswoman at the
foreign ministry said there were no plans to make any statement beyond the one
issued Friday night, when Mexico announced it was turning down the United
States' request.

The challenge facing both governments is to find a way to handle the aliens
humanely while also abiding by Administration plans to try to stem the flow of
Chinese boat people.

Last month, at least eight Chinese aliens died when a ship ran aground off a New
York City beach. After the New York incident, President Clinton approved a plan
aimed at stopping the smuggling of refugees into the United States, and the
Administration stepped up its efforts to patrol international waters and seize
suspect ships. The effort is similar to that used in the Caribbean for Haitian
refugees.

But clearly there is a vast difference between sending leaky vessels a few
hundred miles back to Haiti and sending them thousands of miles back across the
Pacific to China, although that is an option that may not have been ruled out.

When asked whether the mechanical problems with one of the Chinese ships
virtually assured that its occupants would have to be brought ashore and put on
jets in order to be repatriated, the American diplomat in Mexico said "disabled
boats get fixed, too."

The three ships now being held off the coast of the Mexican state of Baja
California are not leaking, but Coast Guard mechanics have not been able to
repair the engine of the disabled craft. A Coast Guard spokeswoman at the Long
Beach, Calif., station described conditions on the ships as "fair," and said
there had been no need to evacuate any of the aliens to a hospital.

The spokeswoman, Petty Officer Elizabeth M. Brannan, said Coast Guard personnel
were cooking for the 236 people aboard the disabled vessel, the Sing Li No. 6,
and were supplying rice and military-issue meals to those aboard the other two
ships.

Petty Officer Brannan said the three ships would be held at the rendezvous point
until orders came from an interagency group in Washington consisting of
officials of the immigration service, the Justice and State Departments and the
National Security Council.

An employee at the Immigration and Naturalization Service office in Long Beach,
Calif., who would not give his name, said that contingency preparations were
being made there as well as in the San Diego and San Francisco offices to
accommodate the aliens should a decision be made to bring them ashore in the
United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Part of Immigrant Nightmare Goes on the Block

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 677 words


For Sale: Rusting 150-foot freighter. Name: Golden Venture. Last Voyage: To New
York City from Southeast Asia, with 300 illegal immigrants from China aboard.
Price: $17,500 or best bid. Prospects for future trips: Uncertain.

Interested buyers have been invited to take a look at the Golden Venture,
currently docked on Staten Island, where she is in the custody of Federal
Marshals who seized the vessel after it ran aground off Queens before dawn on
June 6.

The ship's spectacular arrival, and the death of 10 of her passengers in their
frantic effort to swim ashore, came to symbolize the plight of thousands of
other immigrants who risked their lives on similar ships, many of questionable
seaworthiness.

But now the Golden Venture is just another aging ship, and the United States
Marshals Service -- which sometimes make use of the cars and trucks they
confiscate -- would like to be rid of it. It has asked that bids be submitted in
writing by next Monday, and that prospective buyers be ready to deliver the full
amount of their offer by Aug. 20.

However, defense lawyers for the ship's captain and crew, who have been charged
with smuggling illegal aliens, have petitioned Judge Reena Raggi of Federal
District Court in Brooklyn to delay the sale until after their trial, currently
scheduled for October, arguing that the ship may be needed as evidence.

The judge decided last Friday that the ship must be held until she rules that it
can be released, said Assistant United States Attorney Steve Abrams.

But that has not stopped the Marshals Service from proceeding with plans for the
sale. It ran classified advertisements in newspapers on Sunday seeking bids, and
arranged viewings for this morning.

"It's for sale now," Deputy Marshal Craig Donlan said yesterday, "There may be a
delay, but it's definitely going forward."

Marshal Donlan said that several prospective bidders called to express interest
yesterday, but declined further comment. He also would not describe the present
condition of the ship, saying only that it would be up to prospective buyers to
decide whether she could be used for anything other than scrap.

The Golden Venture, used as a coastal freighter carrying dry goods along the
coast of Southeast Asia between Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam before she set
out on the five-month journey that would make it infamous, is apparently in poor
condition. In statements to investigators, crew members said that its engine
broke down repeatedly during the voyage, and that during one storm they wondered
if the ship would sink.

Lawyers for the captain and crew who visited the ship last month described its
conditions as appalling, with tiny, bunk-sized cabins for the crew, and an open
hold below deck where the 300 passengers were crammed, with a single toilet for
all of them.

One of the lawyers, Joel R. Weiss, said he planned to ask that the jury be taken
to see the conditions on the ship, which he said was the reason he petitioned
Judge Raggi to block its immediate release. Mr. Weiss, who represents the ship's
chief officer, San Lwin, said he thought seeing the ship with their own eyes
would help persuade jurors that the crew members did not expect to carry human
cargo when they set out.

The advertisement, which appeared in The New York Times and other newspapers,
said that the Marshals Service had already received an unsolicited offer of
$17,500 from a bidder, whom Marshal Donlan would not identify. Other bidders
were invited to offer bids of 10 percent higher -- $19,250 -- or more.

The advertisement specified that the ship's sale is on an "as is, where is,"
basis, meaning that the buyer will be expected to remove it in its current
condition.

The shipping agent who brokered the ship's sale a few weeks before its departure
said last month that he was surprised to hear that she had successfully made a
voyage across two oceans on its way to New York City. The ship was named the
Tong Sern before the words "Golden Venture" were painted on her hull at the
outset of its last voyage.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 11, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Seeking to Deny Citizenship to Some

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 570 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 10


Gov. Pete Wilson of California has urged the Federal Government to deny
citizenship to American-born children of illegal immigrants, prompting an outcry
by civil libertarians.

In a letter to President Clinton on Monday, Governor Wilson also proposed
creating a tamper-proof identification card for residents and called on Congress
to repeal Federal mandates that make illegal immigrants eligible for health,
education and other benefits. Mr. Wilson, a Republican, used political money to
reprint the letter in full-page advertisements today in West Coast editions of
The New York Times and USA Today as well as in The Washington Times. A spokesman
for the Governor said the advertisement was placed in those newspapers to
emphasize that the problem was one of national scale rather than confined to
California.

"It's time to amend the Constitution so that citizenship belongs only to the
children of legal residents of the United States, not to every child whose
mother can make it to an American hospital," Mr. Wilson said.

Most of the proposals Mr. Wilson made have been raised in Congress without
success. Denial of citizenship to newborns would require an amendment to the
Constitution.

The proposals were criticized today by the American Civil Liberties Union. "It
is an unconscionable effort on his behalf to target the most defenseless and
voiceless segment of our society, which are children," said Silvia Argueta, a
staff lawyer for the civil liberties group.

She said his suggestion "goes against the grain of what this country is founded
on and denies children the most basic right there is: citizenship."

'Nothing to Do With Race'

Robert Rubin, assistant director of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights in
San Francisco, said, "I think whenever the Governor speaks out, he should be
very careful to not even lend support to the demagogues who use this issue in a
racially divisive manner."

Mr. Wilson dismissed critics as partisan and denied that he was being racially
divisive. "This has nothing to do with race," he said. "This has to do with
facts."

Saying that there are nearly one million illegal immigrants in Los Angeles
alone, Mr. Wilson said that the state government was being drained of $2.3
billion each year for costs incurred by illegal immigrants.

"We're forced to cut aid for the needy, elderly, blind and disabled who legally
reside in California because Washington mandates that we spend more than
three-quarters of a billion dollars a year on emergency medical services for
illegal immigrants and more than a billion dollar a year to educate illegal
immigrants," he said.

Trade Lever Recommended

Earlier this year the Clinton Administration refused California's request for
$1.5 billion in Federal money to soften the financial impact of providing
services to immigrants. About $500 million was ultimately provided.

Mr. Wilson also suggested that the Administration could use trade incentives to
encourage Mexico to limit emigration to the United States.

Mr. Wilson's proposals were also condemned by Democrats like State Senator Art
Torres of Los Angeles as ignoring employers who illegally hire undocumented
immigrants.

"This Governor has failed to address the most important issue," Mr. Torres said.
"If there are jobs here, people will come. No matter if you have border tax, the
National Guard or the Seventh Fleet in the Sea of Cortez."

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Art Dollars for Me, $10 for You, $10 for You

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1353 words

DATELINE: ENCINITAS, Calif., Aug. 10


In the scrub-covered hills north of the Mexican border, three experimental
artists supported by a Federal arts grant are handing out crisp $10 bills to
illegal immigrants.

To David Avalos, one of the artists, the act of giving the money is a work of
art and a political statement about "the interaction of physical space with
intellectual space and civic space."

To Domingo Santiago, an illegal day laborer murmuring seriously with his
companions as the artists explained their project, "It's strange, because people
don't usually give us money."

'Outrageous' Giveaway

To Representative Randy (Duke) Cunningham, Republican of California, the
giveaway is "outrageous."

"I can scarcely imagine a more contemptuous use of taxpayers' hard-earned
dollars," the San Diego lawmaker wrote the National Endowment for the Arts,
which paid some of the costs of an exhibit that includes Mr. Avalos's work.

The befuddlement, the anger and the general hubbub that the handouts have
stirred here in the San Diego area are also apparently part of the project,
"Arte-Reembolso/Art Rebate," in which the artists are giving away most of a
$5,000 grant.

The artists say they are trying to demonstrate the illegal aliens' role in the
economy at a moment when public anger is rising over the cost to taxpayers of
government services for those immigrants.

The moment the aliens received the bills, each signed by all three artists, some
hurried to a nearby food truck, recycling their artworks into the economy by
exchanging them for tacos and soft drinks.

"I don't think it's an accident that the piece happened right now," said Kathryn
Kanjo, assistant curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art inSan Diego, which
sponsored the work.

A spokesman for the endowment, Josh Dare, said the agency had not known about
the project in advance or financed it specifically, and added, "These three
artists are very adept at pushing people's buttons."

Mr. Dare said he expected the giveaway to be an issue next month at confirmation
hearings for Jane Alexander, who was nominated last week to head the endowment.

Politicians' Response

Senator Jesse Helms, the North Carolina Republican who has led attacks on the
agency for financing such controversial projects as an exhibit of Robert
Mapplethorpe's homoerotic photographs depicting sadomasochism, did not reply to
a request for comment on the $10 handouts.

In recent days, Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, and Gov. Pete
Wilson, a Republican, responding to the mood of their constituents, have visited
the border and called for major steps to keep out illegal aliens. They slip
across the border by the thousands every day.

Saying the country is "under siege" from the illegal aliens, the Governor said
this week that the state should not provide them with such services as education
and health care. In a letter to President Clinton, Mr. Wilson called for a
constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to illegal aliens' children born in
this country.

The artists -- Mr. Avalos, Louis Hock and Elizabeth Sisco -- insist that the
aliens contribute to the economy through their work and the sales taxes they
pay.

"It's interesting that it is the politicians and policy makers who choose to be
irrational and that it's up to the artists to be rational," Mr. Avalos said.

Comedy in High Seriousness

That responsibility seems to be never far from the artists' minds. They go about
their business with the quiet seriousness of high comedy.

"We're going to do a little work here," Mr. Hock announced the other morning,
alighting from his car at the edge of a strawberry field and approaching a group
of illegal aliens who wait in the area to get work. As Mr. Hock shuffled through
a stack of neatly numbered envelopes, the aliens shrank back, uncertain whether
these were Federal immigration agents and the moment had come to run.

But the sight of the money held them.  And soon, ready to accept the
incomprehensible, they were gravely nodding as the artists handed them fliers
that explained, in English and Spanish: "This $10 bill is part of an art project
that intends to return tax dollars to taxpayers, particularly 'undocumented
taxpayers.' The art rebate acknowledges your role as a vital player in an
economic community indifferent to national borders."

As if to confuse the recipients still more as they kept a wary eye on the road
for immigration agents, the fliers explained that the handout was supported by
Federal and local government agencies.

The project received its grant from the San Diego museum as part of an
exhibition called "La Frontera/The Border." The artists say that $500 of the
grant is going into the costs of producing the fliers and photocopying the
individual bills for their records, and that the remainder is going directly
into aliens' pockets.

Part of $250,000 Project

"The Border" is, in turn, one in a series of exhibits in a four-year project at
the museum called "Dos Ciudades/ Two Cities," which received a $250,000 grant
from the National Endowment for the Arts. That amount is being matched 3 to 1 by
the museum, with donations coming from the State of California, the City of San
Diego and the Rockefeller Foundation. The museum is sponsoring "Two Cities" in
partnership with the Centro Cultural de la Raza, a Hispanic cultural
organization in San Diego.

Given the variety of sources and types of donations and the fact that
fund-raising for "Two Cities" is continuing, Hugh Davies, the museum's director,
said it was impossible to say what part of each $10 bill was from Washington.

In addition, he said, it was important to note that the national endowment
financed only the four-year umbrella project and had no specific knowledge of
the "Art Rebate" giveaway.

When the three artists were invited to participate, Mr. Davies said, "The N.E.A.
had no knowledge, nor did we for that matter, of the specifics of what their
commission might be."

Mr. Davies said the museum strongly endorsed the artists' freedom of expression.
"With respect to the content of the work and whether we think it is a good art
work or a bad art work," he said, "we really have no position on that."

Sharp Division

Opinions on that question have been sharply divided in the San Diego area, where
the project has been the subject of letters-to-the-editors' columns of
newspapers.

"I think it's horrific what they are doing," said Garuda Terra, the owner of La
Petite Boulangerie, where the artists decompressed over cups of coffee after a
morning's work. "Why not pass out $10 to just anybody who pays taxes?"

But then, perhaps realizing that by her own reaction she had become part of the
artwork's intellectual and civic space, and even possibly at her bakery, part of
its physical space, she added: "But that's what they want. That's what makes it
wonderful. If it hits enough nerves, it can make people respond."

At the endowment, Mr. Dare said that because of the recent controversy the
agency was expediting a routine examination of how its money had been spent in
the San Diego project.

The creators of "Art Rebate" are more than ready to be audited. Each new $10
bill, as crisp and vivid as a work of hyperrealism, is signed for by its
recipient, sometimes with an X.

An Alien's Story

At the edge of the strawberry field the other day, Mr. Santiago said he had been
working illegally in the United States for 12 years. His 17-year-old son Jose,
who has worked with him for three years, is in 11th grade at a local high
school. Even working only two to four days a week at odd jobs, and earning $4.25
an hour, Mr. Santiago said he can make double or triple what he could back home.
He tries to spend as little as he can on food and shelter and send the remainder
to his family in Mexico.

As the three artists packed away their documents, Mr. Santiago and his
companions had already gathered around two elderly women who had arrived to pass
out religious tracts.

The men looked up and waved as the artists drove away, and one called out: "Come
back soon. We'll be here."


LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Eager for $10 bills, illegal aliens form a line next to David
Avalos, second from right, and Louis Hock, who call the gifts art. (pg. A1);
Supported by a Federal arts grant, three artists are handing out $10 bills to
illegal immigrants as a project about "the interaction of physical space with
intellectual space and civic space." Elizabeth Sisco, right, in glasses, one of
the artists, found willing participants near Encinitas, Calif. (Robert Burroughs
for The New York Times) (pg. B11)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 22, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Refugee Has Rare Chance to Be in 'Heaven'

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1049 words

DATELINE: SAN PEDRO, Calif., Aug. 19


When 657 smuggled immigrants were sent back to China from three crowded ships
off Mexico last month without formal hearings, the United States authorities
brought just one man ashore to plead his case for asylum, a 22-year-old teacher
named Liu Jiang.

Mr. Liu, dressed in bright orange prison clothing, now waits in an immigration
detention center here, smiling and bewildered at his luck, a reminder of the
complexities of immigration issues and the difficulty of tightening border
controls without sacrificing human rights.

He looks amazed when he describes the helicopter that plucked him from his ship
and whirled him up from the torments of his three-month voyage. "I really feel
that coming to America is just like going to heaven," he said.

Claim of Persecution

Mr. Liu is a Christian, and it is his claim of religious persecution in China
that apparently set him apart from his fellow passengers during brief
questioning by American officials and gained him a chance to stay here.

Had they managed to land on American soil, the other immigrants would have had
the right to make their own formal pleas for political asylum. Under American
law, they would have had the right to remain for years while their claims were
adjudicated.

And, under procedures followed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
they probably would have been released during this period, many never to be
heard from again.

De Facto Admission Policy

It was in an effort to avoid such de facto admission of the hundreds of
passengers, and to act on President Clinton's stated intention of toughening
immigration procedures, that United States officials kept the three ships at sea
for 11 days last month, 60 miles off Mexico's Pacific coast, in a diplomatic
stalemate.

During the stalemate one woman was airlifted ashore for medical treatment,
assuring her, by her presence on American soil, of the chance to plead her case
and stay.

Finally, American officials persuaded Mexico, which does not have the liberal
asylum policies of the United States, to take the passengers ashore and promptly
return them to China.

Valid Case for Asylum

While the ships were at sea, United States officials boarded and made
preliminary evaluations of the passengers, passing out questionnaires to
determine if anyone might have a valid case for asylum. Of those on board, only
Mr. Liu was singled out.

And as Mr. Liu tells it, he was different from the rest.

He said the other immigrants were his tormentors, mocking and threatening him
because of his religion, and throwing his Bible into the ocean with the words,
"You and your things can go to heaven."

Speaking through an interpreter, he said: "They beat me up because I am a
Christian. There is no law on the ship, and they did whatever they wanted.
Sometimes I didn't eat for one or two days because they took my food away."

But he said he was already accustomed to this kind of harassment in his small
village in Fujian Province, a region that is the source of most of the smuggled
Chinese immigrants who have reached the shores of the United States by the
thousands over the last two years.

His Grandmother's Religion

With two years of high school, Mr. Liu was one of the better educated people in
his isolated farming village, and he taught Chinese literature to third graders.

He chose to adopt his grandmother's religion, effectively isolating himself from
many of his neighbors in China. Although he admits he has only a superficial
understanding of Christianity, Mr. Liu began to seek converts, both among his
fellow teachers and on treks to other villages in his province.

When the congregation in his one-room meeting place grew to 50 people, he said,
he began to receive warnings from government officials to stop his activities.
And when they threatened to arrest him, he said, he found passage on a ship to
America.

Claims of religious persecution are rare among the smuggled Chinese, said Mr.
Liu's lawyer, Helen Sklar. Of about 100 Chinese asylum cases she has handled,
she said, only two involved religious persecution.

Ms. Sklar said most claims were based on China's severe family planning policy,
which restricts the number of children allowed to each family, and which
Washington has defined in its asylum policies as a violation of human rights.

High Cost of Passage

Most of the Chinese immigrants who have been smuggled into the United States,
officials say, have paid $20,000 or more for their passage, and have then worked
in menial jobs in Chinatowns around the country to pay of their debt.

Mr. Liu said that his family in China promised to pay the smugglers $10,000 and
that he did not expect to have to work off his debt here. Instead, he said, he
hoped to find assistance from Christians here who would find him employment and
help him learn more about his religion.

He said he hoped some day to be able to return to China as an educated religious
man and teach other people about Christianity.

Mr. Liu also said he had little understanding of immigration procedures in the
United States and did not know what to expect when he arrived here.

But he has a simple explanation for the complexities of immigration law and the
legal niceties that led officials to pluck him from among his shipmates. "I
believe Jesus Christ told them to do it," he said.

                             --------------------


REFUGEES ON HUNGER STRIKE

YORK, Pa., Aug. 21 (AP) -- More than 100 Chinese refugees detained here since
their ship ran aground in New York are refusing food to draw public attention to
their plight, according to prison officials.

By Friday, 114 of the 117 refugees being detained at York County Prison were
shunning food.

The detainees began their hunger strike on Wednesday or Thursday because of
fears that they would face imprisonment or fines if they were sent back to
China, said Warden Thomas H. Hogan. The refugees were not protesting prison
conditions or treatment, Mr. Hogan said, but wanted to attract "an eye or ear
that can help them with the legal system."

The detainees are part of a group of nearly 300 Chinese refugees captured by
immigration officials when the ship Golden Venture ran aground off Queens on
June 6. Eight people died in that incident.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The claim of religious persecution has given Liu Jiang, a
22-year-old Christian teacher from China, a chance to stay in America. (Scott
Robinson for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Giving Aliens New $10 Bills Loses U.S. Subsidy as 'Art'

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 954 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 4


In the face of ridicule from its critics, the National Endowment for the Arts
has withdrawn its backing from a project in which three conceptual artists hand
out $10 bills to illegal immigrants near the Mexican border.

Noting that United States currency is neither supplies nor materials as
specified in the grant to the sponsoring museum in San Diego, the endowment
announced late Friday that the $4,500 in cash handouts was an "unallowable
expense."

One of the artists, Elizabeth Sisco, was quick to respond today, saying the
decision was politically motivated and accusing the endowment of creating a
fictional list of artistic materials that excludes cash.

"The $10 bills are the materials of the project," Ms. Sisco said. "The
conceptual network we have created showing the link between all taxpayers relies
upon those $10 bills. They are like the bucket of paint that a muralist would go
out and purchase, like the slab of bronze a sculptor would use."

Josh Dare, a spokesman for the endowment, responded, "We don't have a listing of
supplies and/or materials; nor do we have a definition of supplies and/or
materials." But, he added, "We do not consider United States currency a supply
or material."

He also said, "This decision was made outside of the political climate and does
not have anything to do with the controversial nature of the project."

Crisp New $10 Bills

The project, called "Arte-Reembolso/Art Rebate," is being carried out by Ms.
Sisco, Louis Hock and David Avalos and involves handouts of crisp new $10 bills
to illegal aliens, generally day laborers, just north of the Mexican border.

The artists say it is intended to demonstrate that these immigrants, who are
coming under political attack as a burden on the economy, do, in fact,
contribute through their labor and through sales taxes. The project also shows,
the artists say, that the immigrants are linked through a chain of dollars with
the rest of the economy.

The project received a $5,000 grant this year from the Museum of Contemporary
Art in San Diego, as part of an exhibition called "La Frontera/The Border." The
artists spent $500 of that on supplies including formal receipts signed by the
immigrants, an expense that the endowment did not challenge.

"The Border" is, in turn, part of a four-year project called "Dos Ciudades/Two
Cities," which received a $250,000 grant from the Federal endowment. That grant
was to be matched by $750,000 from other donors including the State of
California, the city of San Diego and the Rockefeller Foundation.

Thus, in principle, just one-fourth of the artists' giveaways come from Federal
money. Mr. Dare noted that nevertheless it was only the endowment, a
longstanding lightning rod for conservative critics, that had drawn criticism.

Hugh Davies, director of the museum, said today that he stood by the artists and
would not ask for any money back or interfere with the one remaining handout of
money that they plan.

"We just can't use N.E.A. money for that part of the project," he said. "It
means we'll have to do some budget shifting."

Scrutiny for the Endowment

He said he regretted that the dispute arose at a politically sensitive time,
diverting attention from the project's focus on immigration issues to questions
about the endowment itself.

"It was never our intention of jamming the N.E.A.," he said. "It's regrettable
that the N.E.A. is under such microscopic scrutiny. I know of no other agency
that is under such scrutiny."

Confirmation hearings are scheduled this month for President Clinton's nominee
to head the endowment, the actress Jane Alexander. And Art Rebate is looming as
a focus for Congressional critics.

Mr. Dare said that although the agency's review of the financing for the project
was routine, it had been accelerated by criticism raised in recent weeks.

A chief critic was Representative Randy (Duke) Cunningham, a Republican from San
Diego, who taunted the agency in a series of letters, calling the handouts a
"contemptuous use of taxpayers' hard-earned dollars."

In a letter last month to Ana M. Steele, the acting chairwoman of the endowment,
he wrote, "Americans will not long support Government funding for the arts if
those funds are known to be converted to cash, then handed out to illegal
aliens."

Mr. Davies, the museum's director, said: "We believe we have done nothing wrong.
We do not intend to back away from that position."

He said he believed that the endowment's decision "could have been politically
motivated by people who want to destroy the N.E.A." He added, "It is unfortunate
that people like Duke Cunningham can intimidate artists' freedom of expression."


'Looked for a Technicality'

Ms. Sisco did not appear to be intimidated today.

She said the artists planned to hand out the last of their $10 bills and then
begin a series of exhibits of the receipts and other documents from their
project.

"The N.E.A. is operating on a tactic of political expediency to get through the
confirmation, reauthorization and reappropriation," she said. "They looked for a
technicality to get that money returned. Their decision throws into question
their ability to provide leadership for the arts at the turn of the century."

Mr. Dare made a point of praising the museum and called the overall enterprise
paid for by the endowment "an exemplary project."

Speaking in what he said was his personal capacity, he also gave a nod of
admiration to Ms. Sisco and her two colleagues.

"Those three artists are very good at, and I give them credit for, choosing art
to create public dialogues," he said.  "If art is supposed to create discussion
and dialogue about the issues of the day, then touche."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 16, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Underground Economy

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

Re "Immigrants: A Cost or Benefit?" (Op-Ed, Sept. 3): The young Mexicans who
toil long hours in corner fruit stands, the operators who sew clothes ("Made in
U.S.A.") in Chinatown sweatshops and the Senegalese who hawk accessories on the
streets all contribute to making our dollars go further. If you eat in a
restaurant, stay in a motel or have the cleaner press your clothes, you may
contribute to the underground economy and benefit from it.

For those whose children are cared for by undocumented babysitters, it may be
the only thing that permits them to be in the work force. This massive subsidy
to consumers and legal wage earners isn't taken into account in most efforts to
quantify the costs and benefits of recent illegal immigration.

MARC EDELMAN
New Haven, Sept. 3, 1993

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 February 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Los Angeles Debates Quake Aid for Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 850 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 5


As the city struggles to pull itself together after last month's earthquake, its
social fissures have re-emerged in an angry debate over whether relief aid
should be provided to illegal immigrants.

Coming on the heels of a proposal by Gov. Pete Wilson to deny health and
education benefits to undocumented aliens as one way to cope with the state's
lingering economic slump, advocates for immigrants are complaining that these
residents are again being made scapegoats for widespread hardships in a time of
trouble.

But such restrictions are receiving considerable public and political support in
a time of economic distress and tight budgets. In Washington, the House
Appropriations Committee passed a measure that would permit emergency relief to
illegal immigrants, but would also deny them 18-month housing vouchers being
issued by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and other long-term
aid.

Conflicting Feelings

"My heart goes out to them, and I'm not in any way trying to bash them," said
Representative Ron Packard, Republican of California, who sponsored the
amendment. "But when it comes to the spending of taxpayers' dollars, I cannot
turn my head and treat undocumented aliens like citizens."

The Census Bureau has estimated that there are about 1.3 million illegal
immigrants in California, most of them from Mexico, and in recent months
Democrats and Republicans have spoken out for curbs on their continued entry.
The two Democratic Senators, Diane Feinstein and Barbara Boxer, have offered
proposals to tighten controls on the porous, 2,000-mile border.

Supporting the thrust of the amendment to the aid bill, Senator Feinstein said,
"I'm one who believes that emergency help such as food and clothing should be
provided to all victims, but that Section 8 vouchers, with a rent subsidy for 18
months, and small-business loans and grants, should be reserved for legal
residents."

Opponents of such restrictions say they may be largely symbolic, since illegal
immigrants are not eligible for Small Business Administration loans and
considerable documentation is already needed for the housing vouchers. They say
there is no straightforward way to check on legal residence and that efforts to
do so will create a bureaucratic bottleneck.

An Ugly Symbol

And as a symbolic act, they say, the message of the restrictions is ugly,
painting a nation that has been generous with disaster aid around the world as
petty and miserly when people within its own borders are in need.

"What kind of message does it send when we're trying to segregate earthquake
victims?" asked City Councilman Richard Alarcon, a Democrat.  Charles Wheeler,
the directing attorney of the National Immigration Law Center, said the notion
of imposing controls in the midst of a disaster was fraught with technical
problems.

For one, there is the question of how to treat the many undocumented residents
whose American-born children are citizens. Mr. Wheeler said immigration
requirements might frighten many illegal aliens away from applying for emergency
assistance.

Even Republican city officials, who are dealing with the day-to-day hardships
wrought by the earthquake, oppose the requirements because of the added problems
they would create.

'Bureaucratic Nightmare'

Noting the nation's continuing difficulties with trying to control illegal
immigration, Mayor Richard J. Riordan, a Republican, said in a letter opposing
earthquake-aid restrictions that the restrictions would create a "bureaucratic
nightmare" for Federal, state and local agencies, as well as for the Immigration
and Naturalization Service.

Laura Chick, a Republican City Councilwoman from one of the hardest-hit areas in
the San Fernando Valley, said that while she favored controls on immigration
there was "no system in place today to allow for people to be identified as
legal citizens."

"It's a process that has to be put in place, but a disaster is not the time to
do it," she said.

Debate in the Lines

The debate over assistance was similarly lively in the long lines awaiting
disaster relief.

"We all work hard, but now they don't want to give us anything," said Maria
Elena Sauledo, a 22-year-old illegal immigrant from Mexico who shared a
government shelter with 19 other relatives. The men of the family work in
gardening and landscaping, while the women sew clothing part-time for garment
factories. "We are all human beings," she said, as her mother-in-law cradled
Mrs. Sauledo's infant, an American citizen. "We all have rights. Everybody needs
help."

Laura Bahena, an illegal immigrant who said she had moved here after a 1985
earthquake that devastated parts of Mexico City, called the talk of restrictions
racist. "The earthquake did not ask for paperwork," she said.

But Phyllis Holliman, 23, who is unemployed and now homeless after the
earthquake, voiced what seemed to be the prevailing sentiment as she waited for
food. "L.A. is just too overcrowded," she said. "I know it's hard where they
come from, but they're making it hard for us. We can't get jobs."


LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 1994, Saturday

CORRECTION:

An article on Sunday about aid to illegal immigrants affected by the Los Angeles
earthquake misstated the party affiliation of Laura Chick, a City Council member
from the San Fernando Valley. She is a Democrat.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Battles have begun in Los Angeles over whether to provide
earthquake relief to the city's illegal aliens. The House passed an amendment
last week that would permit emergency relief but not long-term benefits. People
lined up for food at a relief center in the Van Nuys section of the city. (Scott
Robinson for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 11, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Opens New Front in Fight on Immigrant Policy

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,    Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;   Page 14;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 1318 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 10


Arguing that the Federal Government should bear the costs of illegal
immigration, the State of Florida has begun denying foster care to immigrant
children who are in the state illegally.

Since the Mariel boatlift of 1980, Florida, recently joined by California, Texas
and New York, has been fighting with the Government over the cost of welfare,
education, health care, housing and prison for immigrants. Estimating that
Florida spends at least $739 million a year on such services to immigrants and
political refugees, Gov. Lawton Chiles announced in late December that he was
suing the Government to recoup those costs and reduce the flow of illegal
immigrants.

But the state's decision to deny foster care to undocumented immigrant children
opens a new front in that battle with Washington. Legal and immigration experts
say this move, made with little fanfare late last year, symbolizes a new
aggressiveness on the part of state officials faced with tight budgets and an
issue that seems to have broad political appeal.

The state basically argues that it has no legal obligation to children who have
been abandoned in a foreign country and wind up here. In the past, policies
about providing social services to illegal immigrants have widely varied among
the states.

Mr. Chiles, a populist Democrat who is running this year for a second four-year
term, and other state officials argue that the Federal Government's refusal to
shoulder its responsibility has penalized the 13.5 million residents of the
fourth-most populous state.

Two Recent Cases

As a result of the new policy, a shelter here for abandoned children recently
sent a Guatemalan teen-ager to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
then began deportation proceedings. A second teen-ager, who fled Haiti after his
father was killed in political violence there, was refused admittance to the
same state-supported shelter last month until a court intervened and ordered he
be granted temporary protection.

"I'm administering a state program for 9,000 foster kids, and we can barely
provide a standard of living for children who are citizens," said Jim Towey,
Secretary of the Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services, the state's
principal social welfare agency. "We don't like to say no to anybody, because
that's not why you go into social work, but I'm not going to lie to the people
of Florida and say we can keep on watering down the soup."

In the past, the Federal Government has limited access to some of its social
programs to immigrants who are able to prove that they have legal status in the
United States, though it is often impossible to exclude illegal immigrants from
services like emergency medical care. Immigration and child welfare specialists
said it was highly unusual for a state to impose so restrictive and sweeping an
eligibility test on social services.

Trend Developing

"This is emerging as a critical issue over the last several months, and Florida
is first out of the gate and out in front on this one," said Dag Ryen, executive
editor of State Government News, a publication of the Council of State
Governments, a nonpartisan research group based in Lexington, Ky.

Among actions by other states, a new California law that goes into effect on
Mar. 1 will require drivers applying for their first license in the state to
show proof of lawful status.

The State of New York requires immigrants to present evidence of legal status
when they apply for programs like welfare, day care and home health care, said
Terrence McGrath, a spokesman for the Department of Social Services. But in New
York City, where the vast majority of the state's illegal immigrants reside, an
executive order in effect since 1989 has the practical effect, state officials
say, of allowing city social workers simply not to ask questions about legal
status.

Legal Services of Greater Miami Inc., a nonprofit organization here that
provides legal assistance to the poor, filed suit last month seeking to overturn
the state's policy. Lawyers representing the Haitian and Guatemalan teen-agers
said that the state was acting illegally and that the youths had a
Constitutional right to receive foster care and other social services.

Christina Zawisza, director of the Children First project at Legal Services of
Greater Miami, said that since 1990 her organization handled, without incident
until recently, the cases of more than 100 immigrant children in state custody
who were seeking permanent legal residency through special juvenile visas. "Now,
all of a sudden we get these cases, and they are balking," she said.

But lawyers for the Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services contend in
papers filed at state Circuit Court here that it is the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, not the state of Florida, which "is required to assume
full and complete responsibility for the care and custody of this child or any
minor undocumented alien until or unless he is returned to his home country."
They are also arguing that state courts have no jurisdiction over the issue; a
hearing on the case is scheduled for Friday.

Groups like the National Association of Social Workers and the Child Welfare
League quickly condemned it. "It's totally outrageous and does no good for
anyone, neither the children involved nor the greater community," said Luisa
Lopez, who handles immigration issues for the National Association of Social
Workers.

Mixed Motives

Mr. Towey, however, said the tough new approach was motivated by concerns as
much humanitarian as economic. He said he had deep misgivings about the
potential magnet effect in the Caribbean and Latin America of a court ruling
that would force Florida to provide foster care to all youthful immigrants who
arrive here illegally.

"This would send a signal to parents in Cuba, Haiti, Guatemala and elsewhere
that there exists a new right to foster care and a better life for their kids,"
he said. "If these kids are assured foster care as well as the right to an
education, I'm worried about what lives will be risked at sea."

Since the late 1980's, thousands of Cubans and Haitians have arrived here after
dangerous sea journeys aboard makeshift rafts or rickety wooden boats. Most
young people who have made that trip did so in the company of their parents, but
cases of unaccompanied minors are not unusual.

The Haitian teen-ager in the case here, who turned 16 on Jan. 29, was put on a
boat to Florida by his mother in October 1992 after a year of hiding from the
Government forces that killed his father and spent time with other refugee
families in motels and on the streets before seeking refuge at the shelter last
month.

The Guatemalan youth, who is believed to be 17, has an even more difficult past,
according to papers filed by his lawyers. He never knew his father, and after
his mother was killed in a guerrilla attack when he was 7, he fled to El
Salvador and then Mexico, relying on the charity of sympathetic adults until
entering the United States around 1989.

"I don't want to see these kids out on the streets," Mr. Towey said. "But I'm
not going to have one or two compelling cases define our policy. We can only
care as much as the money we are given."

                             --------------------


California May Sue U.S.

SACRAMENTO, Calif., Feb. 10 (AP) -- Gov. Pete Wilson said today that he would
sue if the Federal Government failed to give California $3.1 billion for
services for illegal immigrants.

In an interview taped for CNN's "Moneyline," Mr. Wilson, a Republican, said he
was bitterly disappointed that President Clinton's budget did not contain the
money.

Without Federal help, Mr. Wilson said, California will be forced to cut services
to legal residents to pay for education, emergency medical care and other
services required under Federal law for illegal immigrants.


LOAD-DATE: February 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 22, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Asian Gang Members Arrested in Kidnapping

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 741 words


After secretly observing a $20,000 ransom payment on a Lower East Side street
corner, Federal agents arrested 10 Asian gang members who they said had
kidnapped and tortured four illegal immigrants from China over the weekend.

One of the victims told law-enforcement officials that on each of the three days
he was in captivity, the kidnappers pistol-whipped him, gagged him with his own
shirt, kicked him and punched him. At one point, the victim was also burned with
a hot metal rod on his back and chest.

Ten suspects were charged with kidnapping, robbery and gun offenses. An 11th man
was charged with a gun offense only.

Smuggling of Immigrants

The kidnapping appears to have been the work of the Fuk Ching, the Chinatown
gang most deeply involved in smuggling illegal immigrants from China, although
the authorities declined to say so publicly. The trade reached a tragic climax
last June when a ship called the Golden Venture ran aground off Queens and 10
passengers died trying to swim ashore.

Following the arrests of 18 members of the Fuk Ching in New York and Hong Kong
last August, including the reputed gang leader Guo Liang Chi, a leadership
vacuum spawned a series of violent kidnappings in the subsequent months. Federal
authorities have said they began investigating the Fuk Ching in 1991.

Asked about the significance of this weekend's arrests, an Assistant United
States Attorney prosecuting the case, James E. Johnson, said, "The arrests are
awfully important to the four victims who were being tortured." He declined to
say whether the arrests were expected to lead investigators to higher-ranking
smugglers in the Asian organized-crime network.

At their arraignment in Federal court yesterday, the suspects appeared to be in
their 20's and 30's. One of them, Kiong Fiu Lee, has a serpent tattooed on each
forearm. A second, Xiao Fei Fang, wore a sweatshirt with the words "American
Tradition" emblazoned on the front.

Threat Over the Phone

According to the criminal complaint filed in Federal court, agents were alerted
to the kidnapping by a relative of two of the victims. He received a telephone
call from a kidnapper at 4 A.M. Friday and was informed that his relatives had
been abducted from their apartment on Rivington Street a short time before. The
kidnapper warned that if he were not paid $30,800 agents were alerted to the
kidnapping by a relative of two of the victims. He received a telephone call at
4 A.M. Friday and was informed that his relatives had been abducted from their
apartment on Rivington Street. The kidnapper warned that if he were not paid
$30,800 for each victim, they would be killed.

The kidnapper then held the telephone so that a female victim could speak into
it, and she said it was likely that she would be raped if the payment was not
made. The relative "then overheard screaming and the sound of a person being
beaten in the background," the complaint said. The kidnapper left his beeper
number.

The relative went to the Rivington Street apartment and spoke with an elderly
couple who live there.

"They were in the apartment when six masked men broke into the apartment, held
the couple at gunpoint, tied them up, and took the four victims," the complaint
said. "At least one of the gunmen informed the couple that the kidnappers would
be in contact with them."

The relative arranged to drop off a ransom on Sunday afternoon. Cooperating with
the authorities, a second relative carried $20,000 in bills -- chemically
treated to leave a residue on the hands of anyone who touched them -- to the
corner of Allen and Broome Streets in lower Manhattan.

Victims Found in Brooklyn

After watching the cash reach the hands of one suspect, and following him as he
went to join three others in a parked car a block away, Federal agents arrested
four suspects at Delancey and Orchard Streets. Three had chemical residue on
their hands, the complaint said.

At about the same time, agents burst into a house on 53d Street in Sunset Park,
Brooklyn, where the four victims were found in a rear bedroom on the floor,
backs to the wall. The victims were identified only as two men and two women,
and Mr. Johnson declined to comment on the extent of their injuries.

Four suspects were arrested in the apartment. Two other suspects were arrested
in an apartment on Broome Street. At least three of the suspects, according to
the complaint, are illegal immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 7, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Officials Fear Ship Is New Smuggling Wave

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 846 words


A freighter unloaded more than 100 illegal immigrants from China off the coast
of Virginia last month, and Federal officials said yesterday that they fear its
arrival may be the first in a spring and summer wave of ships laden with
immigrants headed for New York City.

After a splash of attention to immigrant smuggling when the Golden Venture ran
aground off Queens last June, some immigration officials said yesterday that
they worried that Federal efforts were falling short of what was needed to
protect the coastlines during the coming warm season.

"It's a very real threat," said Jack Shaw, assistant commissioner of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington. "If this was the first of
several boats, we're going to have to readjust our approach."

Mr. Shaw and other Federal officials stressed that their information was
incomplete, with interviews of the immigrants still at an early stage.  Even the
number of passengers on board the ship was uncertain: an I.N.S. official said it
was more than 165, but a Federal complaint put it at about 110. One immigrant
said that the ship's voyage was only the last leg of a year-long journey, part
of it by plane, that took the immigrants through Moscow and the Caribbean, an
immigration agent said.

5 Charged in Kidnapping

The incident came to light yesterday after Federal agents found 63 illegal
immigrants in a house in Maryland, and five more in an apartment in Flushing,
Queens, who had traveled aboard the ship and were being held until a fee for
their passage was paid by relatives. Agents also raided three Chinese
restaurants in Maryland but found no one who had been aboard the ship, officials
said.  Other passengers presumably had paid their fees and were released.

Five men found guarding the immigrants in the Queens apartment were charged
yesterday in Federal District Court in Manhattan with harboring illegal aliens.
A sixth man, found in the Maryland house, was expected to be charged as well.
Investigators declined to tie the kidnappers to any established Chinatown gang,
but the complaint filed in Federal Court specified that they spoke a dialect
from Fujian Province, the area of China where the vast majority of illegal
immigrants originate.

After the Golden Venture's arrival, and the death of 10 passengers as they tried
to swim ashore, President Clinton announced steps intended to deter smugglers.
It included tougher penalties for alien smuggling and authority for the I.N.S.
to conduct electronic eavesdropping.

But some immigration officials complained yesterday that as smugglers reverted
to a previous method of sneaking immigrants into the country by air with false
documents, and the issue of immigrant smuggling receded from public view,
political support for the measures dropped off. Proposed legislative changes
languished in Congress, they said, and money originally intended for
anti-smuggling efforts went instead to the border patrol section of the I.N.S.

"We've gotten no new resources to fight any of this," said Daniel Molerio,
assistant district director for investigations of the I.N.S. in New York.
Another I.N.S. official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that the
Chinese boat-smuggling task force had been largely dismantled.

Informant Told of Ship

Federal authorities first learned about the Virginia ship in late March, after
hearing from an informant that a ship unloaded about 110 illegal immigrants off
the coast of Virginia, who were apparently taken ashore by several fishing boats
that escaped the attention of the Coast Guard.

They were also helped, a law-enforcement official said, when the Maryland State
police stopped a driver for speeding and found him carrying $10,000 in cash. A
Vietnamese-American who operated a fishing trawler, the driver apparently
transferred about 40 immigrants ashore from the freighter.

Most of the immigrants were held in a house in Mitchellville, Md., where fees
for passage were expected to be paid by relatives, and taken inside a 20-foot
U-Haul trailer to New York only once the fees were paid.

When agents burst into the house at 7:45 P.M. Tuesday, some guards tried to
blend in with the captives to escape punishment. "They were all pointing fingers
at each other," said Andrew Manning, an F.B.I. spokesman in Baltimore.

Cash and Phones Found

At an apartment in 39-15 Janet Place in Queens, Federal agents found four
victims huddled in a small locked room with no furniture, and a fifth victim
lying on the floor, according to the complaint. Five suspects were also found,
with $11,000 in cash, cellular telephones, but no weapons.

A law-enforcement official said there was no evidence of physical abuse to the
victims, but the complaint states that relatives were told that the victims were
beaten, and would continue to be hurt until a ransom of $30,800 was paid. Recent
fees for passage from China to the United States vary from $25,000 to $35,000,
and the belief that eight is a lucky number apparently spurs kidnappers to add
it to a ransom total.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 9, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Judge Rejects A Plea Bargain For Defendants In Ship Deaths

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 637 words


The Federal judge in the case against seven men the prosecution calls enforcers
on the Golden Venture, the freighter that ran aground off the Rockaway peninsula
last June with 300 illegal Chinese aliens aboard, surprised the defense and
prosecution yesterday by rejecting the plea bargain they had arranged.

Ten passengers drowned after the illegal immigrants jumped from the ship and
tried to make it to shore.

On Jan. 10 the seven defendants each pleaded guilty to conspiring to smuggle
illegal aliens, a felony for which they could have received five years in
prison. According to the plea bargain worked out between their lawyers and the
United States Attorney's office, the defendants would have received sentences
from 12 to 30 months.

"The sentences agreed to do not adequately do justice," Judge Reena Raggi of
Federal District Court in Brooklyn said yesterday morning. "I just don't think
they adequately deal with the seriousness of the crimes."

Finding the Smugglers

Judge Raggi's decision is expected to complicate efforts by investigators to
track down the smugglers behind the Golden Venture. Prosecutors will now have to
renegotiate elements of any plea agreement that involved the seven defendants
providing information about the smugglers or included a willingness to testify
if any are ever caught.

The enforcers, prosecutors say, were hired by the organizers of the smuggling
scheme to control the passengers, and some were said to have ordered the
passengers overboard when the Golden Venture ran up on a sandbar on June 6,
during the last moments of a harrowing four-month voyage from Southeast Asia.
They had agreed to pay about $30,000 each for their passage to America.

But yesterday Judge Raggi, saying that some some defendants may have ordered
people into the water, said, "There's a risk of trivializing the conduct here."

Richard Levitt, the lawyer for one man, Weng Zhen Huan, told the judge it was
his "understanding that it is likely that many people were yelling, 'Jump, jump,
jump.' It wasn't forcing people to walk the plank."

Her voice rising, Judge Raggi countered: "This boat did not just run aground. It
was deliberately run aground."

Susan Kellman, the lawyer for another defendant, Huang Shao Ming, said her
client was merely a passenger who took on some administrative duties. Judge
Raggi said that "if he was more of a passenger who agreed to some administrative
duties for an extra ration or rice a day," she would take that into account.
Judge Raggi ordered the lawyers to return to court on April 22 with a "joint
submission" on a new plea bargain.

The other five men charged are Zhang You Hau, Zheng Zhi, Zheng Zhou, Zu You Yau
and San Lwin.

A Guilty Plea

The man who prosecutors said was the chief enforcer aboard the ship, Kin Sin
Lee, has pleaded guilty to misconduct of a ship officer, a felony, for inducing
passengers to jump, and is awaiting sentencing.

The supervising prosecutor on the case, Leslie Caldwell, said she was surprised
by Judge Raggi's action, "because there was no prior indication she was having
problems with the sentences."

The president of the Brooklyn Bar Association, Barry Kamins, said it was fairly
unusual for a plea bargain to be rejected in Federal court. "It's an indication
that Federal judges take a more aggressive stance in this area," Mr. Kamins
said.

In the state system, judges go on the record as accepting a plea-bargained
sentence at the time the defendant pleads guilty. "In the Federal system, there
is no specific promise," Mr. Kamins said. "Still, it's unusual."

In a counterpoint to yesterday's sentencing procedure, 350 immigrants stood in a
courtroom across the hall, with paintings from Ellis Island hanging on the wall,
and took the oath as naturalized United States citizens.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 12, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is Sued Over Aliens

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A;  Page 13;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, April 11


Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida sued the Federal Government today, seeking more
than $1 billion in reimbursement for services it has been required to give
illegal aliens.

The lawsuit, in Federal District Court here, charges that the Government's
failure to protect the nation's borders encourages the influx of illegal aliens
into Florida.

"The people of Florida are saying, 'Enough,' to paying an unfair share of
providing services to illegal immigrants," Mr. Chiles, a Democrat, said. "We
refuse to pick up Washington's tab any longer."

The Governor estimated that there were 350,000 illegal aliens in Florida, a
state of 13 million people. The suit said Florida spent nearly $1 billion a year
on services like education, medical care and welfare for illegal aliens and on
jailing illegal aliens who committed crimes in the state.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 14, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Major Suspect Charged in Immigrants' Fatal Voyage

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 921 words


A new suspect was arrested yesterday in the Golden Venture case, and
law-enforcement officials described him as the highest-ranking suspect taken
into custody so far.

Prosecutors said the suspect, Weng Yuhui, was in charge of shore-to-ship radio
communications in the weeks before the freighter, carrying nearly 300 illegal
immigrants from China, was beached off the Rockaway Peninsula last June. Ten
passengers died trying to swim ashore.

An indictment that was unsealed yesterday in Federal District Court in Brooklyn
linked Mr. Weng with those who plotted the Golden Venture operation. The 21st
defendant in the case, he is the first to be arrested who did not actually make
the voyage but who instead was tied to the initial planning in the summer of
1992.

The indictment, which charges Mr. Weng with five counts of immigrant smuggling,
does not name the other conspirators. A law-enforcement official said
investigators hoped that Mr. Weng would lead them to other smugglers but would
not say whether other indictments were pending.

Some Plea Bargains Rejected

The previous defendants in the case, all of them crew members or so-called
enforcers aboard the ship, have each pleaded guilty. Six of the plea agreements
were rejected last week by Judge Reena Raggi, who said they were too lenient.

Judith Lieb, the assistant United States attorney in the case, said at Mr.
Weng's arraignment before Judge Raggi that he was arrested early yesterday in
New York City by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He
pleaded not guilty and was held without bail.

According to statements in court yesterday, Mr. Weng, 40, is a native of Fujian
Province, China, with two residences in New York, one on the Lower East Side and
the other in Elmhurst, Queens, where his wife and three children live. He
described himself as a self-employed house painter.

A senior law-enforcement official declined to say what led to the arrest of Mr.
Weng, which occurred roughly the same time that Guo Liang Chi, accused of
leading the gang most deeply involved in alien smuggling, arrived in New York
City.

Associate of Financiers

But the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that Mr. Weng
appeared to be an associate of those who bankrolled and organized the smuggling,
and not part of the gang, which was hired by the smugglers to hold the
immigrants until a $30,000 fee was paid for each passage.

Mr. Guo, whose street name is Ah Kay, agreed on Monday to be extradited from
Hong Kong, where he was arrested in August. He and an associate, Li Xinghua,
were arraigned yesterday in Federal court in Manhattan. Each pleaded not guilty.

The law-enforcement official said that Mr. Guo agreed to be extradited after a
written agreement was negotiated with the United States Attorney's office in
which he will cooperate in a number of organized crime prosecutions and
investigations.

Mr. Guo's lawyer, Gerald L. Shargel, declined to comment on his client's defense
strategy.

Leniency for Father

The law-enforcement official said he expected Mr. Guo to plead guilty at a later
date to some murder, kidnapping and alien-smuggling charges against him in
exchange for leniency. He may also demand leniency for his father, Guo Qi Wu,
who was charged with alien smuggling in the same case, the official said.

But the question that investigators are most eager to answer is whether Mr. Guo
will provide any information about the Golden Venture.

When the ship arrived, Mr. Guo was immediately a suspect because of his gang's
pre-eminent role in holding new immigrants until their fees are paid. Yet
investigators say they have been unable to tie Mr. Guo to the Golden Venture,
and it is unclear whether he knew Mr. Weng.

Since Mr. Weng was said to have used a radio powerful enough to communicate with
a ship more than 1,000 miles away, one official said yesterday, he is likely to
know what went wrong. The Golden Venture's crew deliberately ran it aground off
Queens, the official said, after smaller boats expected to ferry the passengers
ashore failed to appear.

Mystery of Missing Boats

In many smuggling operations, like one that brought more than 100 illegal
immigrants to Virginia last month, a freighter is met 100 miles or so off the
coast by fishing boats that take the passengers, because fishing boats can often
enter a port without inspection by immigration officials.

Investigators are unable to explain why the smaller boats intended to meet the
Golden Venture did not appear when the crew expected. But some investigators
theorize that a dispute among the organizers led to a breakdown among those
hired to transfer and hold the passengers.

Initial statements by crew members last June related their frantic attempts, in
the hours before they beached the ship, to arrange alternative landing plans
with smugglers by radio, but it is unclear whether they spoke with Mr. Weng.

On the day the Golden Venture arrived last June, Lee Kin Sin, described by
prosecutors as the chief enforcer on board the ship, made a statement to a
Federal agent that he had been in radio contact with "Mr. Wong," who he said at
one point was the owner of the ship. It was not clear yesterday whether the
newest defendant, Mr. Weng, was that man.

Mr. Lee himself was listed as the official owner of the ship, since he signed
papers in Singapore when it was sold in January 1993, but investigators say they
believe that he was simply acting as a front man for more senior smugglers.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Asian-American Lawsuit Tries to Make a Point: Police Caution

BYLINE: By By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 56;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 529 words


John Ng looked up from behind the counter in his ground-floor sewing shop in
Brooklyn one day last June to see a dozen police officers, several carrying
rifles.

As Mr. Ng described it in a lawsuit filed last week, one officer barked orders
at Mr. Ng to sit still, while others searched the store and his home upstairs,
apparently looking for illegal aliens. Mr. Ng says the police broke through two
locked doorways upstairs where his family and neighbors live, cracking several
walls as they looked for hiding places.

"They came in very fast," said Mr. Ng (pronounced UNG), who was born in China.
"We had no chance to say anything."

No illegal immigrants were found, no arrests were made and no one was hurt. The
damage to Mr. Ng's building was slight.

But a lawsuit filed last week on behalf of Mr. Ng and a neighboring family in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn charges that the police acted illegally,
forcing entry to his store and home without a search warrant or enough evidence
to merit one.

It further alleges that the families' civil rights were violated because the
police treated them -- all American citizens -- differently because they are
Asian-American.

The incident occurred last June 28, amid publicity about illegal immigrants from
China that followed the arrival of the Golden Venture, a ship carrying nearly
300 aliens, earlier that month. The police raided several other houses in
Brooklyn and Queens in those weeks, finding dozens of illegal immigrants being
held until they could pay a fee for their passage, typically $30,000 each.

The lawsuit says that when Kiki Ng, Mr. Ng's wife, went to the 72d Precinct
station house to complain about the police visit, Lieut. Steven DeFranco told
her that the police conducted the raid because an anonymous 911 caller reported
that an illegal immigrant was being held in the sewing shop building on Eighth
Avenue in Sunset Park. The police arrived one hour later.

Without more evidence, the lawsuit alleges, the police should not have entered
and searched a home. But because of the publicity about illegal Chinese
immigrants, the lawsuit says, the police responded to a tip without taking other
steps to confirm the information.

Lieutenant DeFranco declined to discuss the incident, as did a police spokesman.


Typical Violation Seen

Elizabeth OuYang, a staff lawyer for the Asian American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, said her organization filed the suit on behalf of Mr. Ng and his
neighbors because they felt the incident represented a typical case of
discrimination against Asian-Americans.

"We want to force the police to act with more caution when they approach a
situation like this so that people's rights are not trampled over," Ms. OuYang
said. She noted that the families are not seeking a specific amount of damages.

The lawsuit comes as anti-immigrant sentiment is growing, Ms. OuYang said.

Mr. Ng and his neighbors filed the lawsuit, Ms. OuYang said, after they became
frustrated because a complaint to the Police Department's Civilian Complaint
Review Board had failed to evoke a response. No one from the Police Department
ever apologized, she said.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

California Sues U.S. Government Over Costs Tied to Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 24;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 276 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, April 30


California says the United States Government has not done enough to control its
borders, and the state is paying the price. So, following Florida's lead,
California is suing to get nearly $2 billion in Federal money to cover the cost
of jailing illegal immigrants.

The lawsuit, filed on Friday in Federal District Court, seeks $377 million to
cover the state prison costs this year for about 16,700 illegal aliens who have
committed crimes.

In court papers, California officials also argue that the state should be
compensated for the prisons already built to hold illegal aliens. Gov. Pete
Wilson's administration estimated that the prisons cost $1.6 billion.

"California has had enough, and it's time to stop illegal immigration," said Mr.
Wilson, a Republican up for re-election this year. His Democratic critics say he
failed to pursue Federal immigration financing for California aggressively under
the Bush Administration and is now seizing upon the issue for political
purposes.

Last week, President Clinton proposed spending $350 million to help ease the
burden on states with large numbers of illegal aliens. That money would be
divided among several states, and Mr. Wilson said it would not be enough.

California's lawsuit is similar to one that Florida filed on April 12, seeking
$1.5 billion. New York officials say they plan a similar suit; Arizona, New
Jersey and Texas are considering joining Florida's suit.

Mr. Wilson is expected to file additional lawsuits later to make California's
challenge as broad as Florida's. He contends that California is owed about $3.6
billion in Federal money for immigration-related programs.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 26, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrants Kept Padlocked in Warehouse

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: NEWARK, May 25


Fifty-seven undocumented immigrants from China were kept padlocked in a Jersey
City warehouse for more than a month, apparently as prisoners of a smuggling
ring demanding up to $30,000 from their families for their release, the police
said.

The immigrants, all male and from the Fujian province who ranged in age from 14
to 43, had been confined in a former auto body shop, where they slept side by
side on bamboo mats on the second floor. They were discovered Monday morning by
police officers investigating a telephone company complaint that no one had paid
for about $3,000 worth of calls made to China from the warehouse since April.

When the police approached the site, they found it tightly locked with metal
curtain doors, said Lieut. Dennis O'Connell of the Jersey City Police
Department. The building had no rear exit and only two small windows with thick
iron bars.

"We told the phone company the place was locked up and they said, 'It can't be;
somebody's making a call from there as we speak,' " Lieutenant O'Connell said.
He said police officers then looked in the second-floor window and saw the
prisoners sitting calmly on their mats.

'Very Obedient'

"They were very obedient," the lieutenant said. "They didn't understand English,
but when we showed them where to put their hands, they did it."

Sixty-one immigrants were found in the warehouse, four of them were apparently
guards who were part of the smuggling ring, Lieutenant O'Connell said. The
police found two .38-caliber pistols and two beepers in the two-story building.

Immigration officials said the discovery was not especially shocking at a time
when more and more Chinese immigrants are being smuggled into the country,
usually on ships. "We have heard of this before," said Chip Bogdanski, a
spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Newark.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service in Washington, said
interviewers were also trying to find out if the detained men were working off
their passage fee. He said that in similar cases, fees have ranged from $20,000
to $30,000 and are sometimes covered by the immigrants' relatives.

Could Face Prosecution

Immigration officials in Jersey City spent Monday night and all day today
interviewing the men and have made no determination whether to deport, detain or
release them, Mr. Bogdanski said. He added that the four men who acted as
"enforcers" could face prosecution.

Neighbors in this family neighborhood of three- and four-story houses and
brownstones told the police that they had noticed a windowless red van pull up
to the garage every afternoon about 5:30, but the van did not show up Monday
night, Lieutenant O'Connell said.

He said that at first it was believed that the immigrants were bused to a work
site but that investigators found the van arrived to bring food to the site. "We
think one or two of them, maybe at a time, were in the van, maybe because their
families had come up with some money," the lieutenant said.

The owner of the building, Lawrence Perlacki, said that he had leased the
building on April 15 to a man identifying himself as Chao Young of 123-K Marina
Drive in Edison. He said the man gave him $1,500 as a security deposit, $500 for
a half month's rent for April and $1,000 for May's rent, all in cash, and that
he had checked a form that allowed Mr. Perlacki to check his credit report.

Mr. Perlacki added that the man told him he worked at the Cooker Bei-jing
restaurant in New Brunswick and would be using the building as a warehouse and
distribution center for restaurant supplies and food.

"Every time I came here, it was closed, and I figured that's what he was doing,"
Mr. Perlacki said.

There were no listings in local telephone directories for a restaurant of that
name or for Mr. Young's home.

Signs of Cooking

The men apparently cooked in the warehouse. Vats of chicken and rice sat on the
floor, Lieutenant O'Connell said. The building had a bathroom, and a shower had
been installed, with a partition for privacy. The men's belongings were kept in
sleeping bags and sacks. Bottles of medicine and a refrigerated container for
food were also found.

"To tell you the truth, I've been to a lot of houses in Jersey City that were a
lot worse than this," the lieutenant said.

On the quiet block where the warehouse is situated at 239 Barrow Street, most
neighbors said they never suspected the building held prisoners.

But Helen Johnson of nearby Grand Street said she was surprised early one
morning to see about six men and women running after a garbage truck they had
missed. She had not seen people there before.

Other neighbors, including Raymond Semienick, who lives a block from the
warehouse, said the gates of the warehouse opened and closed at odd hours,
either early in the morning or late at night.

"I thought it was bizarre," Mr. Semienick said. "I would hear the gates open and
close, but I never went down to investigate."

Lieutenant O'Connell said the police had heard some word that some of the men
had been beaten. But no bruises or signs of assault were visible on any of the
men when they were found, he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 6, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Young Stowaway Gets Temporary U.S. Home

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 5


A 13-year-old boy who stowed away early Friday in the wheel well of a Colombian
cargo jet and survived subzero temperatures on a three-hour, 1,000-mile flight
across the Caribbean, has been given temporary refuge by a Colombian immigrant
here.

The stowaway, Guillermo Rosales, was unconscious when he tumbled out of the DC-8
in Miami after the flight from Bogota at 35,000 feet. He was in a ball and
covered in frost, according to Miami employees of the cargo company, Arca
Airlines.

"He definitely should have died," said a mechanic, Richard Ungerer. "The wheel
coming up could have crushed him, there's lack of oxygen at that altitude, and
it had to be 20 or 30 degrees below zero."

Guillermo was in good condition after a short visit to the Pan American
Hospital, said George Waldroup, a spokesman for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which took custody of the boy.

"The plane apparently has a pressurized wheel well, and that's why he survived,"
Mr. Waldroup said. "He's a very lucky young man."

The boy was taken temporarily into custody by Jairo Lozano, the brother of
William Lozano, the suspended Miami policeman who was acquitted May 28 of
manslaughter charges in the deaths of two blacks.

"I don't know him," said Jairo Lozano, also a native of Colombia. "I just want
to keep him for a couple of days until immigration contacts his family. We have
received a lot of support from the community in reference to my brother's trial,
so I think this is something I should give."

A Colombian stowaway who made a similar effort several years ago was found dead,
Mr. Waldroup said.

Stowaways are usually sent home immediately, but the immigration service made an
exception in Guillermo's case. I.N.S. officials say the boy may have family
members in the United States, and they are trying to find them. There were
reports that the boy was eating out of garbage cans at the Bogota airport before
hitching the plane ride, Mr. Waldroup said.

"He may be an orphan who has an aunt in the United States, here in Miami, and
there are some humanitarian concerns," Mr. Waldroup said, "plus the fact that
he's only 13 years old."

The Colombian-born boy has Venezuelan residency papers and the I.N.S. was trying
to find out if he could have relatives in that country, Mr. Waldroup said.

The Arca plane was carrying flowers from Bogota, said Mark Anderson, a spokesman
for the Miami International Airport.

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Both Renew and Unsettle Chinatown

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1423 words


The elderly man, influential and well known in Chinatown, stood in the front
room of his office on Mott Street and hovered between the desire for full
disclosure and the need for discretion.

He talked about illegal immigrants, like the ones who came ashore in Queens on
Sunday morning. He worried that they faced years of misery and hardship here,
that they would contribute to a loss of control in the community, a lessening of
the influence of the old guard. Some of them, he said, would inevitably be
tempted by gang membership, already a growing problem in Chinatown.

It was his mention of gangs that made him not want to talk anymore.

"People are scared," he said.

"Who knows who's behind this, what kind of international gang?" he continued,
alluding to the smugglers of the latest illegal immigrants from Fujian Province
who are now in the custody of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "I get
my name in the newspaper. Is the Government going to protect me? Tomorrow I'm
not here. For what?"

A Web of Emotions

The mood in Chinatown after a ship carrying nearly 300 illegal immigrants went
aground off Queens on Sunday was mixed and complicated, just as Chinatown itself
has become in the last several years.

Unease was easy to detect. There was sorrow too, especially for the six people
who died trying to swim ashore from the grounded freighter.  They were, after
all, only trying to do what many thousands who now live in Chinatown have done
before them -- start a new life in America.

Above all, perhaps, there was a tip-of-the-iceberg feeling, a pervasive belief
that the spectacularly failed arrival of nearly 300 illegal immigrants on Sunday
was only a small part of a broader pattern. It was a reflection of the fact that
this colorful part of New York has been going through rapid and sometimes
unsettling change.

"The history of Chinatown in less than 25 words?" said David S. Chen, the
executive director of the Chinatown Planning Council, a state-financed agency
that provides social services to many new immigrants.  "Growth, complexity, more
complexity and diversity."

On the Surface

To the average outsider who comes for the occasional meal, Chinatown has an
entirely deceptive simplicity as the place of Chinese culture in New York, the
home to thousands of little shops with exotic signs and restaurants. Chinatown
is the place of storefront Buddhist Temples, martial arts parlors and dozens of
associations -- often grouped by surnames like the Li Family Association and the
Eng Family Association -- that typify the extended welfare systems of
traditional Chinese life.

But beneath the surface, Chinatown is, and always has been, a place in constant
flux. More than anything else, Chinatown has long been a kind of transit center,
the place where Chinese immigrants -- especially those with little money, no
English and not much formal education -- come first, before making some money
and moving away, to be replaced by new arrivals.

"Nobody wants to stay in Chinatown," said Simon Wong, a reporter for The United
Daily News, a Chinese language daily. "But even though people leave, Chinatown
continues to expand because the numbers of new immigrants, both legal and not,
are so high."

Before American immigration laws were changed in 1965, total immigration may
have been a hundred or so people a year. Now, China and Taiwan each have quotas
of 20,000 legal immigrants a year. Hong Kong is allowed to send 5,000. Many of
these immigrants come first to New York with a result that the overall Chinese
population in New York, perhaps 70,000 or so in the mid-1960's, has soared to
more than 500,000 today. And that is just legal immigration. "The numbers are
astonishing," said Mr. Chen of the Planning Council.

Emerging Chinatowns

Given that growth, it is not surprising that several Chinatowns have emerged in
lower Manhattan and several others in Queens and Brooklyn.

One of the several Chinatowns is the older, more established place, the original
Chinatown of before World War II, which was largely settled by people from a
single Chinese county, Tay Shan, in southern Guangdong Province. This is the
Chinatown west of the Bowery and south of Canal Street, relatively posh and
glittery, the tourist attraction and gourmet center, where venerable
institutions like the Chinese Benevolent Association, an umbrella group for some
70 social services agencies and family associations, still wield influence.

"Of course we feel sorry for the ones who died," said Victor Loui, the secretary
of the association, speaking of the events over the weekend. But, Mr. Loui
allowed, there were some feelings of resentment mingling with the sorrow among
the older Chinatown residents. The new arrivals, he said, are reputed to work
for such low wages that they drive down the wages of others.

"And then, they have to pay off big debts," Mr. Loui said. "And when the
smugglers who brought them here want their money, some of them are forced into
something illegal, women as prostitutes for example. Some of the men maybe will
be forced to rob or whatever. Because if they don't get enough money to pay the
smugglers, they can be beaten or even killed."

Another Chinatown is farther to the east, a spill-over Chinatown on the other
side of the Bowery, a bit rougher, more unkempt, more Wild West than the older
quarter of Mott Street.

Places for New Arrivals

There in the shadow of the Manhattan Bridge are a few dingy storefronts with
names like Hong Kong Employment Agency and Asia Employment Agency, which
everybody in Chinatown knows as the gathering places for new arrivals.

Every day, the men stand three or four deep in airless rooms beneath strips of
fluorescent light bulbs trying to push to the counter where female agents have
job openings at $3 an hour in the back rooms of restaurants and in garment
factories.

It is widely believed in Chinatown that Fujian, a coastal province across a
narrow strait from Taiwan, is probably the source of more Chinese immigrants,
especially illegal ones, than any other region. Nobody seems to know how many
there are in New York, or how many came legally, but among other residents of
Chinatown the Fujianese have a reputation.

"They are very tough and they work very hard," said Mr. Wong of The United Daily
News. What he did not say, but what is commonly believed is that there are whole
new networks of Fujianese associations that operate parallel to the older
Cantonese establishment of Chinatown. The Fujianese are also seen as the most
likely recruits for underground groups.

The Fujianese are in a sense at the bottom of the complicated social and
economic ladder of Chinatown. At the top are earlier immigrants who have made
fortunes or who are highly educated professionals who came to the United States
from Taiwan and Hong Kong to earn degrees from Harvard and Yale and who do not
so much live in Chinatown as visit the district for the marriage of a daughter
or to shop or to see their lawyers.

"There are the ones who come by plane," said Mr. Chen of the Chinatown Planning
Council, "and those who wade ashore."

No Single Pattern

There is no single pattern, no easy generalization about the lives they lead
after they come to this country, Mr. Wong said. A number of them, unable to pay
their debts, end up in the criminal underground. Some end up murdered. More
commonly, they work very hard for several years, living several to a room,
spending very little money, saving what they can, until they can start a small
business of their own, sometimes in Chinatown, often in the suburbs or out of
state.

Directly beneath the Manhattan Bridge on East Broadway is the Rong Cheng
(Glorious City) Flower Shop, whose owner is said to represent a success story
among recent immigrants from Fujian, supplying bouquets for wedding parties and
other celebrations. One assistant inside the tiny, narrow shop, gave his name
simply as Lin and said he regretted coming to the United States, which he did
about one year ago from Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian Province.

"Life is hard here," he said, speaking in Mandarin Chinese. "America is not a
good place."

But a visitor to the shop, who gave his name as Tony, seemed to be a success
story. Tony, who was dressed in Banana Republic khaki, said he came from Fujian
10 years ago and at first worked in a garment factory.  Now he has interests in
a restaurant and a factory.

"I'm happy," he said. "I got a business. I made some money."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The mood in Chinatown has been mixed and complicated since a
ship carrying nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants ran ashore. Thriving beneath
the Manhattan Bridge is the Hong Kong Employment Agency, a place people in
Chinatown know as a gathering place for new arrivals. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 11, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

After Son Dies, Woman Faces Deportation

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 203 words

DATELINE: ALBANY, July 10


A woman who came to the attention of the authorities when her severely
handicapped son died in the care of a young couple now faces deportation as an
illegal alien.

The woman, Marcia Simmons, 26, overstayed her six-month's visitor's permit, said
Gary Hale, officer in charge of the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Albany. He said she arrived in New York from Trinidad on Feb. 13,
1988, with two children.

Ms. Simmons, who was living in Oneonta, about 75 miles southwest of Albany, and
planning to move there from Brooklyn, was released by immigration agents Friday
and will be advised of her hearing date "in a few months," Mr. Hale said.

The couple she was temporarily staying with, Sharon Augustine, 19, and Noel E.
Goddard, 22, were charged with criminally negligent homicide this week in the
death of her 4-year-old son, Akeim Davis.

They are accused of failing to provide Akeim, who was blind, diabetic and unable
to walk or talk, with enough liquids and proper ventilation.

The police also allege that Akeim did not receive his insulin injections Sunday
or Monday.

Ms. Simmons, who left her son and 6-year-old daughter with the couple over the
weekend, was not charged.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 16, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Health Card Would Bar Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 265 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 15


An Administration idea of issuing "health security cards" to all citizens and
legal residents would prevent illegal immigrants from receiving benefits under
the proposed health care overhaul, a senior White House official said today.

But the official added that the Justice Department must first study the
Constitutional implications of such a move before a final decision is made and
it is introduced to Congress.

Civil liberties groups have long argued that such cards would infringe on the
privacy of citizens and facilitate greater Government surveillance of
individuals.

Administration officials expressed great reticence about discussing national
identification cards because of their concern that the cards could become an
diversionary issue that could rankle liberal lawmakers who otherwise favor an
overhaul of the nation's health care system.

In an interview published Friday in The Los Angeles Times, President Clinton
said the idea of creating a tamper-proof national identification card "ought to
be examined." But in the same interview, he also noted that "a lot of the
immigration groups and advocates have said that any kind of identification card
like that sort of smacks of Big Brotherism."

In Vail, Colo., a White House spokesman said today that Mr. Clinton intended to
include a national identification card as part of his health care plan.

"I know he's going to address the issue, and I know that's what he wants to do,
but exactly how it's going to be implemented I don't know," said the spokesman,
Arthur Jones, a deputy White House press secretary.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Welcome for Immigrants Turns to Resentment

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2868 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 24


Rich and poor, legally or not, they came to Southern California by the millions
over the last decade, foreigners in search of a better life or political refuge.
The immigrants were mostly welcome at first, filling unwanted jobs in a robust
economy, opening businesses and sweetening the good life in sunny California by
working cheaply as maids, gardeners and dishwashers.

But today the welcome has worn out.

Immigrants are now widely perceived as an economic drag on taxpayers, sucking up
health, school, police and other services while spreading crime, dirt and
disease. With its economy struggling through the worst slump since the Great
Depression, its cities battered, its government services breaking down,
California, and particularly Southern California, has begun to say "no" to more
immigrants.

"Illegal immigration is the hottest issue in the state," said Assemblyman Bill
Morrow, who represents an affluent district stretching through Orange and San
Diego Counties. "We've got to say to the Federal Government, 'If you don't close
the border, we will.' "

Politicians ranging from conservative Republicans like Mr. Morrow to Democrats
like California's two Senators, Barbara Boxer and Dianne Feinstein, have been
tripping over each other to offer new ideas for controlling immigration. On Aug.
17, the two Senators toured the border near San Diego with Attorney General
Janet Reno and saw the capture of would-be illegal immigrants. "We've got to
close our borders," said Ms. Boxer in a recent interview.

Some days earlier, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican facing a tough battle for
re-election next year, made a three-day tour of Southern California, demanding
that Washington reverse what he called "the rewards" for illegal immigrants by
ending their medical and education benefits and calling for a constitutional
amendment to deny citizenship to their American-born children. Because
immigration is a Federal responsibility, Governor Wilson says there is little
the state can do to stem the tide.

The complaints are based mostly on the assumption that immigrants are lured here
by generous public services. In fact, immigration experts and the immigrants
themselves say, the main reason they come is that they need jobs and Americans
are willing to hire them. And few of the remedies offered so far propose to
intensify penalties on Americans who employ illegal aliens.

Land of Immigrants

Nowhere are the complaints more pointed than here in California, which absorbed
more than a third of the country's legal immigrants over the last decade, more
than half of the refugees, and now has half of the estimated 1.3 million illegal
immigrants, mostly in Los Angeles, Orange and San Diego counties.

How Southern California absorbs this wave of immigrants, mostly brown or
yellow-skinned, and whether the huge flow prompts the kind of anti-immigrant
violence seen recently in Germany, France and Japan, are crucial questions. The
answers could presage the experience elsewhere as the United States becomes a
land of ethnic diversity.

But for now, the argument by many experts that illegal immigrants do work
Americans are unwilling to do, contribute more than they receive, and add to the
cultural mosaic is heard less frequently as the economy here continues its
slump.

Anti-immigrant fever has also taken root in the state legislature. Twenty-one
bills aimed at immigrants, some patently unconstitutional, were introduced this
year, mostly by conservatives who once favored immigration as good for the
economy and a deterrent to unionized labor.

Many of the bills were meant to deny public housing, health care, welfare,
education and drivers licenses to illegal aliens, and most either failed or have
stalled for now. Hispanic lawmakers and other opponents of such legislation say
that while immigrants do use health and welfare services, they come to
California for one reason only: jobs. To deny them services, they argue, could
cause public health problems that would lead to even greater public expense.

Some of the debate has been tinged with racism. In May, Assemblyman William J.
Knight, a Republican from Palmdale, a Los Angeles suburb, caused an uproar in
the legislature by circulating a piece of doggerel from a constituent mocking
Hispanic immigrants. It read, in part:

Everything is mucho good.

Soon we own the neighborhood.

We have a hobby -- it's called breeding.

Welfare pay for baby feeding.

The Economy
A Smaller Part Of a Smaller Pie



As recently as 1985, an Urban Institute study concluded that Mexican immigration
was a great boon to the California economy, meaning lower prices for goods and
services, low inflation and low unemployment. But today, fewer and fewer
Californians agree with that assessment.

"The economy has created the reality and perception of a zero-sum game in which
citizens see themselves as pitted against immigrants," said Wayne A. Cornelius,
director of the Center for U.S.-Mexican Studies at the University of California
at San Diego. "They see the quality of life declining, the state government
going bankrupt. They assume it is because too many people are flooding into the
state."

The pressures and stress are no less pointed for the immigrants themselves, who
find themselves caught between an increasingly hostile host country and a cruel
economy in their homelands.

On a recent morning in Santa Ana, the seat of Orange County, immigrants gathered
on the corners and the littered parking lotsalong Euclid Avenue, waiting for
work, any work -- painting houses, clearing brush, carrying lumber.

"The government is closing around," said one 29-year-old man, who would give
only his first name, Francisco. He added that it had become more difficult to
obtain real or counterfeit drivers licenses and Social Security cards needed to
get work and state medical coverage for his wife and three children.

Still, he said, life is better for him here than it was three years ago when he
gave up selling T-shirts to tourists in Acapulco at $7 a day to compete for
casual jobs paying $5 an hour in Santa Ana. "There are no jobs in Mexico," he
said. "I need a job for living."

Another man, like others along the street, said that there was so little work
now that he had been forced to send his wife and children back home to Mexico.

A Shift in Thinking

The huge flow of low-skilled immigrants into a depressed economy has begun to
change the thinking among some economists. Among those who has changed his mind
is George J. Borjas of the University of California, San Diego. His 1990 book,
"Friends or Strangers: The Impact of Immigrants on the U.S. Economy" (Basic
Books), concluded that immigrants had not undermined Americans' income or job
opportunities. Now, he says there is indeed an effect.

"If we have a huge influx of unskilled immigrants, it's almost unavoidable that
the unskilled labor market will be affected," he said in a recent interview.

Even as illegal immigrants are reviled, Southern Californians hire them by the
thousands to mow lawns, trim trees and clean and paint their homes, as well as
wash dishes and dice vegetables in restaurants. Employers often prefer them to
Americans because they work hard and seldom complain.

Indeed, immigrant advocates contend that they are both exploited and blamed.
"Immigrants take jobs Americans don't want," said John Palacio of the Mexican
American Legal Defense and Educational Fund office in Santa Ana. "They are not
only blamed for economic ills, but exploited for cheap labor. But they
contribute much more than they receive."

The Numbers
Immigrant Influx Alters a Region

Over the last dozen years, Southern California has been swept by immigration of
a magnitude not seen since New York at the turn of the century. Much of it was
legal, a result of the Immigration Control and Reform Act of 1986, which
conferred amnesty on illegal immigrants resident here since before 1982.

The act also imposed penalties on employers who hire illegal immigrants with the
expectation that this would limit job opportunities and eventually slow the flow
over the border. But lax enforcement and easily obtained false documents have
defeated this barrier.

The immigrants have transformed the region: Russians moved to Hollywood, wealthy
Iranians to the West Side of Los Angeles, Armenians to Glendale. There were also
Israelis, Ethiopians, Iraqis, Egyptians, Lebanese, Ukrainians, Palestinians.

But mostly the immigrants have been Mexicans and Central Americans, and in
smaller numbers, Asians -- Koreans, Chinese, Vietnamese, Thais, Filipinos,
Cambodians, Laotians, Hmong. And so a Little Phnom Penh sprung up in Long Beach,
a Little Saigon in Westminster and an affluent, suburban Chinatown in Monterey
Park. Two-thirds of the Salvadorans and Guatemalans in the United States are in
California, mostly Southern California.

Fewer Natives

In all, the population of California grew by a staggering 6.1 million during the
1980's, and census experts attributed 37 percent of the growth to foreign
immigration. Though the state's growth has slowed since the 1990 Census,
immigration has not; in 1991-92, the state gained an estimated 303,000
immigrants from other countries even as it experienced a net loss of 41,000
Americans to other states.

Of the 8.9 million legal immigrants admitted to the United States since 1989,
3.2 million -- or more than a third -- came to California. That was more than to
New York, Texas, Florida and Illinois combined. More than half the 3 million
illegal aliens who claimed the amnesty offered in the 1986 act settled here in
California; three quarters were Mexican. And there are about 655,000 political
refugees, many from Southeast Asia, nearly half those who have come to the
United States since 1986.

And there are the illegal aliens, an estimated 200,000 in San Diego County
alone, 9 percent of the population. The Hispanic population of Orange County has
doubled in a decade, to nearly 600,000, a quarter of the population. Two-thirds
are not citizens, perhaps half of them here illegally.

The foreign-born account for one of every three residents of the Los
Angeles-Long Beach metropolitan area and one in five in the Anaheim-Santa Ana
area in Orange County. Only the Miami area, with 45 percent, has a higher
proportion of foreign-born residents; New York's population is 27 percent
foreign born.

The influx is unlikely to abate soon. Without tougher controls, an additional 10
million immigrants can be expected to come to the United States during this
decade, said George Vernez, an immigration analyst at the Rand Corporation in
Santa Monica.

The Backlash
'They Are Taking Jobs Away'

Probably nowhere has the backlash against immigrants been sharper than in Orange
County, where they are widely seen as having corroded a once-pleasant
middle-class way of life. There have been bitter disputes over street vendors,
overcrowded apartments and bilingual teaching in the public schools. Santa Ana
is more than two-thirds Hispanic.

On a recent afternoon, several members of an anti-immigration group, Citizens
for Action Now, gathered in Barbara A. Coe's dining room in Huntington Beach.
The group claims 412 members and is one of 15 groups in the California Coalition
for Immigration Reform.

"They violate our laws and demand we feed them, clothe them and educate them in
their own language," Ms. Coe said. "They are taking jobs away from American
citizens." She recalled telephoning seven landscapers for gardening work; most
hung up, she said, when she demanded that no illegal immigrants work on her
property.

An Anaheim resident named John Cosak, an inspector at a military plant, recalled
a recent Sunday visit to downtown Los Angeles. "It was another country," he
said. "Hispanic immigrants were having a paseo, walking on the sidewalk, eyeing
each other, playing loud music. I felt displaced and alienated. They are on the
attack."

To this group, the immigrants are here not just to make a living but to
"reconquer" Southern California for Mexico. "The recent migrants are not
immigrants," said Richard Alard, an engineer from Fountain Valley. "They are
Mexicans living in America."

Hispanic advocates see racist and elitist overtones to all this. "When they say
immigrants, they mean Latinos," said Harry P. Pachon, executive director of the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials.

"They are not talking about middle-class Asian engineers, but day laborers and
gardeners who make life easier for Southern Californians. They are not competing
for aerospace jobs. When Hughes and Lockheed move away, those were not
undocumented workers. We are looking for scapegoats."

The Costs
Seeing a Strain On Services

As long as California's economy was booming and tax revenues kept pace, little
public attention focused on the fiscal burden of immigration. Indeed, his
Democratic detractors note that Governor Wilson, as a Senator, sponsored a
amendment to the 1986 immigration act that gave permanent residency to nearly a
million Mexican farm workers.

Now Mr. Wilson is asking the Federal Government for $1.4 billion that he says is
owed to the state for services to refugees and immigrants demanded by Federal
immigration laws and policies.

The fastest growing state expense for Aid to Families with Dependent Children,
the main welfare program, is for the American-born children of illegal aliens,
and spending for them has nearly quintupled over the last five years. "This is a
major demographic problem California has to face at some point," said Professor
Borjas of San Diego.

During the 1992-1993 fiscal year, refugees, amnesty applicants, and their
citizen children and children of illegal immigrants ate up 18 percent of
California's welfare budget, up from 10 percent in 1987-1988. The cost was $1
billion, nearly triple five years earlier.

Under law, illegal immigrants are generally ineligible for public services, but
there are many exceptions. They are entitled to "restricted benefits" under
Medi-Cal, the state health program for the indigent, for emergencies and
pregnancy-related problems. And a 1982 ruling by the United States Supreme Court
requires local schools to educate all children, regardless of legal status. A
long-standing complaint of local governments is that what taxes illegal
immigrants do pay mostly go to the Federal government, leaving local agencies to
carry the burden of providing services.

In a study conducted last year, the Auditor General of California put the net
annual burden to the state and local governments for the 200,000 illegal aliens
in San Diego County at $145.9 million. A similar study by Los Angeles County,
where recent legal and illegal immigrants and their children make up a quarter
of the population, put it at $947 million a year, or 31 percent of total county
expenditures. Immigrants were also found to count for 23 percent of spending by
school districts in the county.

Both studies failed to account for the contributions the immigrants make to the
larger local economies, and a more recent and more cautious study by the Orange
County Administrative Office concluded that it impossible to calculate the costs
to the county but called on the Federal government to correct "the fiscal
imbalance" immigrants caused.

Many of Orange County's top elected leaders see advantages to the influx of
immigrants. "They still contribute as much as they are alleged to take," said
Harriett Wieder, a Republican who is chairwoman of the county Board of
Supervisors. But she added, "The Federal Government should be assuming more
responsibility, because lax immigration enforcement has resulted in an
inundation of the undocumented."

And many business people find the immigrants good customers. "They deal in cash
and I don't have to worry about checks bouncing," said Chuck Linnert, owner of
Linnert Roofing in the city of Orange. Still, Mr. Linnert, who says he uses only
legal residents on his crews, says he often loses jobs to competitors using
cheaper illegal labor.

That raises the difficult question of whether immigrants are seriously damaging
the economic prospects for unskilled and semi-skilled Americans in a depressed
economy, particularly for young blacks. Until now, economists have generally
agreed, immigrants performed the jobs unwanted by citizens, like dishwashing,
but Mr. Linnert's experience is evidence that illegal workers may be in direct
competition with Americans.

Unless the United States adopts draconian border controls, there is little to
suggest much will soon change. Given the differences in wages between the United
States and Mexico, migration will continue for at least a decade even if the
North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta, meant to improve economic
conditions in Mexico, is ultimately approved, according to Philip Martin, an
economist at the University of California at Davis.

"Regardless of Nafta," he says, "you are looking at a larger number of people
coming across the borders as opposed to fewer."

                             --------------------

Next: A California valley under economic siege.


LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Reinventing California -- Second of three articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The luxury of an expanding economy able to absorb migrant
workers is no longer part of life in Southern California. A motorist in search
of a day laborer in West Los Angeles was mobbed with offers. (Liliana Nieto Del
Rio for The New York Times) (pg. A1); At a migrant camp in Del Mar, Calif.,
immigrants put up makeshift shacks and pass time with chores while waiting for
work. (Nancy Buirski/The New York Times); The number of Hispanics in Orange
County has doubled in a decade to 600,000, a quarter of the population. A banner
promises "Easy Financing, Immediate Delivery." (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)
(pg. A12)

Graph: "Accepting Immigrants"

California accepted more documented immigrants than any other state for the
1983-1992 fiscal years. Estimates of the number of illegal immigrants vary
widely, but some indicate that one million illegal immigrants entered the
country in 1992. California was the final destination for 75 percent of all
illegal immigrants in 1992. Graph tracks documented numbers of all immigrants to
the U.S. and those to California, annually, since 1983. (Source: Immigration and
Naturalization Services) (pg. A12)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 26, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Arts Vigilantes Find a New Quarry to Pursue;
Everyone Is an Artist

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 216 words



To the Editor:

Reading your report that three experimental artists are handing out $10 bills to
illegal immigrants from Mexico (front page, Aug. 12), I felt shortchanged. To
David Avalos, one of the three federally supported artists, "the act of giving
the money is a work of art." Really?

As a sculptor, and not a particularly conservative one, I am insulted by the
readiness of people to call themselves and others artists and their acts works
of art. Is anyone who applies a Band-Aid a physician? Anyone who fixes an outlet
an electrician? Anyone who takes a holiday in August a psychiatrist?

It seems everyone is an artist. The word is up for grabs. In the seven years I
have taught art at private schools in New York, many parents have openly dubbed
their children artists. Not artistic, mind you, but artists! What would they
think if I told them my argumentative 8-year-old cousin is a lawyer?

Children are not artists for the same reason the art dollars project is not art.
There is something lacking: a degree of quality. Perhaps these three
"experimental artists" (whatever that means; please name a nonexperimental
artist) have made a statement, an obvious one at that, but their idea is too
easy to be art, even bad art.

DAVID JELINEK
New York, Aug. 16, 1993

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Aliens' Advocates See Peril In a Restrictive Health Plan

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 28


Advocates for immigrants and officials from some cities and hospitals warn that
President Clinton's proposal to exclude the nation's more than three million
illegal aliens from his health-care plan could endanger public health.

They note that viruses do not respect citizenship status and that failure to
treat sick illegal aliens could therefore endanger many Americans who rely on
immigrants, both legal and illegal, to prepare and serve food, clean homes and
hotel rooms and care for children. In addition, some hospital and city officials
fear that they could be impoverished by the Clinton proposal because they intend
to continue to provide health care to illegal aliens but without the Federal
money they now receive under a variety of programs.

The health care proposal reflects both Mr. Clinton's determination to curb
illegal immigration and a growing political backlash against the costs of
providing health and education benefits to such people.

Many states and cities, including New York State, require health care to be
given to anybody who needs it, through public hospitals and health departments.

The Administration's intention to exclude illegal immigrants from the national
health care system was restated last week by Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development.

'A Hard Judgment'

"That is a hard judgment that has to be made," Mr. Cisneros said in a recent
interview on Cable News Network, "and the answer is, they ought not have the
benefits that would be accorded other Americans."

The national mood implicit in Mr. Cisneros's statement was also reflected by the
recent recommendation by Gov. Pete Wilson of California that undocumented
immigrants be barred from receiving all Federal benefits.

While few illegal immigrants have health insurance, a 1985 Federal law requires
general hospitals to treat all critically ill patients, citizen or not, who seek
medical services.

Thus, said Kevin Anderson, a White House spokesman, illegal immigrants under the
Administration plan would "continue to have access to the services they have
now: emergency services and community and migrant health centers."

But the draft of a report by an agency that specializes in immigrant matters
challenges that view.

Ways to Get Care

"Currently, immigrants obtain health care through a network of private and
employer-based insurance plans, sliding fee payments to community and migrant
clinics, Medicaid coverage for emergency care and state and local commitments to
public health, prenatal and child health services," says the draft report, by
the National Immigration Law Center, a group partly financed by the Justice
Department that advises agencies serving low-income immigrants. "If a unified
reform system is enacted with significant immigrant restrictions, it will
replace -- and destroy -- this fragile but functioning patchwork."

Hospitals and doctors who now treat illegal immigrants and other uninsured
persons are reimbursed through Medicaid, the state-Federal medical program for
the poor, and other Federal health programs. They also cover some of the costs
by charging higher rates to insured patients. Although illegal aliens are
ineligible for Medicaid except for emergency care, their status is sometimes
fudged to allow them to go on the Medicaid rolls, experts say.

In addition, cities and hospitals receive Federal aid for serving illegal
immigrants under several programs, including one that reimburses hospitals that
serve a disproportionately large number of poor people.

$527 Million Bill

In Los Angeles, for example, where an estimate 700,000 illegal aliens live, one
in four of the people who received county health care last year were
undocumented immigrants. Their care cost $527 million, of which the county paid
$159.5 million and the remainder was divided between the Federal and state
governments.

"If these people aren't covered by the Clinton proposal, their medical services
will be paid for by the county," said Gary Wells, assistant director for
financial services and administration of the Los Angeles County Department of
Health Services. "This will mean continuing stress on California public
financing, both state and local."

But beyond financing concerns, the exclusion of illegal immigrants from the
health plan could imperil public health, said Susan B. Drake, a lawyer with the
National Immigration Law Center, which is based in Los Angeles.  "When you talk
to public health people, they say microbes and viruses really don't know what
your immigration status is," Ms. Drake said.

Similarly, Arthur Helton, director of the refugee project of the Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights, in New York, said the exclusion of illegal
immigrants from the Clinton health plan "could be a misperception of
self-interest, and redound to the health detriment of American society."

Asked to respond, Sylvia Shaffer, a spokeswoman for the Health Resources and
Services Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services, which
finances services to poor people, said her agency would not comment until a
health plan was announced.

Paying for Care

William Erwin, a spokesman for the American Hospital Association, said:
"Undocumented aliens will continue to need health care, whether they're in the
Clinton health plan or not. We must find some way of reimbursing hospitals and
physicians for their care, after reform."

Judith Chesser, the Washington lobbyist for New York City, where an estimated
500,000 undocumented immigrants live, said, "Under the state constitution, we
are legally obligated to provide health care to anyone who shows need."

She suggested, however, that the Federal Government should help. "Immigration
policy is a Federal responsibility," she said. "The city has no control over the
nation's borders. Therefore, the Federal Government must bear its financial
responsibility for the health care that these immigrants require."

New York's Health and Hospitals Corporation serves about 1.1 million patients a
year, of whom 86 percent are poor. Immigrants are the fastest growing segment of
the city's population and account for 45 percent of the agency's five million
outpatient visits annually.

"If they show up as human beings, we serve them," said Jim O'Donnell, the
Hospital Corporation's Washington lobbyist. "We don't differentiate legal from
illegal."

The health agency received $3.5 billion from the Federal Government last year,
Mr. O'Donnell said. Agency officials fear that this amount would be reduced
under the Clinton health plan.

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 1, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Immigrants Avoid U.S. Services;
California's Burden

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 271 words


To the Editor:

"California Scapegoats" (editorial, Aug. 16) charges Gov. Pete Wilson unfairly
with "making immigration a scapegoat." You concede the economic hardship caused
by defense layoffs in California. Also, you acknowledge the soundness of
Governor Wilson's plea for tamperproof identification cards held by immigrants.
In addition, both the Governor and you know that children of even illegal
immigrants cannot be denied a public education. That would punish the innocent
and run afoul of the Constitution.

However, while it is highly unlikely that the Constitution will be amended to
deny full citizenship to children born in the United States of illegal
immigrants, you are too cavalier in rejecting outright Governor Wilson's
proposal. Did the citizenship definition in the 14th Amendment, "all persons
born" on United States territory, intend to apply to the progeny of illegal
immigrants? Hardly!

Again, although it would be the height of cruelty to deny health assistance to
illegal immigrants, you fail to note the huge drain on state resources in
California and taxpayer dissatisfaction. Nor with respect to illegals, can
Governor Wilson be faulted for not focusing on violations and workplace
enforcement. In this case, he may recognize limitations and futility better than
you do.

California and other Mexican border states merit additional grants from the
Federal Government to deal with an exceptional burden in a national problem.

Neither California nor public officials in those states warrant your
characterization of "nativist demagogy."

ELLIOTT A. COHEN
New York, Aug. 19, 1993

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 1, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Undocumented Immigrants Avoid U.S. Services

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words


To the Editor:

"A Governor's Brave Stand on Illegal Aliens" (Op-Ed, Aug. 23) by Alan C. Nelson,
former Immigration and Naturalization Service commissioner, is rife with
questionable "facts" and "statistics" based on the erroneous premise that our
borders are out of control, that undocumented immigrants are pouring into the
United States at skyrocketing rates and that an unprecedented number are
availing themselves of such social services as welfare. In truth, undocumented
immigrants, fearful of being discovered and deported, tend not to use social
services.

No one has the exact numbers of undocumented immigrants living in the United
States because it is a population that tends to avoid contact with government
agencies. However, the Bureau of the Census estimates that the undocumented
population consists of about 4 million to 5 million people, and grows at a rate
of 200,000 to 250,000 a year -- a drop in our population bucket, considering
that we are a nation of 260 million.

There is some indication of what social services undocumented immigrants do and
do not use, based on Immigration and Naturalization Service surveys of
immigrants who were legalized during the "amnesty" program of 1987-88.

At the time of application, less than 1 percent of the legalized immigrant
population received general assistance, Social Security, Supplemental Security
Income, workers compensation and unemployment insurance payments. Less than half
of 1 percent obtained food stamps and Aid to Families With Dependent Children.

Moreover, before legalization, undocumented immigrants, men and women, worked.
Eighty-three percent of the legalized immigrant population participated in the
labor force against 77 percent of the general population. For ages 18-64, 94
percent of the legalized population participated in the labor force against 88
percent of the general population.

Men in the legalized immigrant population worked on the average two hours a day
more than men in the general population. Legalized immigrant women worked five
hours a day more than women in the general population. Thirteen percent of the
legalized immigrant population worked more than 40 hours a week and were not
paid time and a half. Of this group, 52 percent were men, and 74 percent were
women.

These figures make clear that undocumented immigrants are not the burden on our
country that Mr. Nelson portrays them as being, nor is illegal immigration so
great a problem as he states. To the degree that it is a problem, I agree that
responsible steps must be taken to address it; but the proposals of California's
Gov. Pete Wilson, as endorsed by Mr. Nelson, are cruel, unnecessary and
irresponsible.

FRANK SHARRY
Executive Director
National Immigration Forum
Washington, Aug. 23, 1993

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 5, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

California Laws Aim At Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO, Calif., Oct. 4


Gov. Pete Wilson signed legislation today overturning local immigration
sanctuary laws and requiring new motorists to provide proof of citizenship or
legal alien status to obtain a California driver's license.

Mr. Wilson also signed two other measures aimed at illegal aliens. One denies
them state job placement and training benefits; the other increases penalties
for making false statements on Medi-Cal applications or coaching others on how
to obtain Medi-Cal benefits fraudulently.

The Governor said that while the control of immigration was mainly a Federal
responsibility, California must take every legal step it can to discourage
illegal immigrants.

"Our state is facing a crisis in illegal immigration," Mr. Wilson said,
repeating his estimate that the state spends $3 billion a year providing health
care and other services for illegal aliens, including educating their children
in public schools.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 18, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Hurts City, New Yorkers Say in Poll

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 624 words


With the largest wave of immigration since the turn of the century raising New
York City's foreign-born population to 28 percent, most residents say there are
too many immigrants in town and add that while most are law-abiding, they have
made the city a worse place to live, a new poll has found.

At a time when several illegal immigrants have gone on trial in the bombing of
the World Trade Center, the poll also found that most New Yorkers think illegal
immigrants pose a serious threat of terrorism and believe that the trade center
bombing would not have occurred if immigration controls had been tighter.

"Clearly New Yorkers are reacting to the World Trade Center bombing and the fact
that illegals seem to be behind it," Douglas Muzzio, a political science
professor at Baruch College who helped coordinate the survey of New Yorkers'
views on immigration, said yesterday as the results were released.

The Empire State Survey -- a telephone poll of 1,203 New Yorkers interviewed
from Sept. 10 to 26 -- was sponsored by the Empire Foundation, of Albany, and
the Lehrman Institute, of New York, nonprofit organizations that study public
policy. It was supervised by Dr. Muzzio and Richard Behn, an instructor at
George Washington University's graduate school of political management.

'Intense Xenophobia'

The poll, with an estimated margin of sampling error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points, detailed startlingly negative attitudes on recent immigration
in a city renowned for its international character and its history as a "melting
pot" for immigrants.

Dr. Muzzio said the hostile attitudes were partly a response to the large wave
of immigration -- an influx of 854,000 immigrants in the 1980's, which had the
effect of raising the city's foreign-born population to 2.1 million, or 28
percent.

"This hostility is really nothing new," Dr. Muzzio said. "Historically, whenever
a wave of immigrants hits the United States, it is met with intense xenophobia."

More than 63 percent of those surveyed said the number of recent immigrants had
been too high. And while 69 percent said they believed immigrants were just as
law-abiding as native-born Americans, the respondents by a two-to-one margin
said that recent immigrants had made the city a worse place to live.

Seen as Terrorist Threat

About 60 percent said immigrants had had a negative impact on the city, while 32
percent said the impact had been positive. The unfavorable view was held by a
substantial majority of immigrants themselves (51 to 37 percent), as well as by
American-born New Yorkers (66 to 25 percent), the poll found.

According to the survey, 55 percent believe that the United States is no longer
a "melting pot" and that immigrants are far more likely to retain their national
identities. An overwhelming 85 percent said immigration had been good in the
past, while only 41 percent thought that was so today. About 43 percent said
immigration should be decreased, while 13 percent said it should be increased.

The reaction to illegal immigrants was harshest. A majority of 55 percent saw
such immigrants as a serious terrorist threat, and overwhelming numbers of New
Yorkers -- 82 percent of the American-born and 68 percent of the foreign-born --
said they believed the trade center bombing in February would not have occurred
if controls over immigration had been tighter.

Dr. Muzzio said other events involving immigrants had also contributed to the
unfavorable views, including the grounding of the Golden Venture off Queens in
June with a loss of 10 lives, when the smugglers' ship was carrying hundreds of
Chinese as virtual indentured servants, and clashes between the police and
Hispanic residents in Washington Heights.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 22, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Queens Arrests In Kidnapping Include Victim

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 402 words


When officers burst into a hide-out rented by Asian gang members in Queens at 4
A.M. Wednesday, the police said, they found 12 young men and women and the tools
of their trade: three machine guns, a couple of handguns and several shackles
attached to the wall.

Several gang members were cooking a meal when the police surprised them, and
among them was a kidnapping victim, an officer said. But the victim has so far
refused to implicate his 11 captors, the police say, and he is apparently afraid
of what the gang members or their friends might do to his family in China.

Even though he faces possible jail time as an accomplice in other crimes, the
25-year-old man is unwilling to separate himself from the wrongdoing of others
and cooperate with the police. It is a sad reminder, the police say, of how
deeply gangs can intimidate their victims.

"This happens all the time," said Sgt. William Nevins of the Queens Robbery
Squad, which led the raid. "A guy will get to the point of going to jail rather
than coming forward. He may never come forward. "

Released to 'Relatives'

Sergeant Nevins said the man, whom he would not name, was an illegal immigrant
who was smuggled into California over the Mexican border a few months ago. He
was captured by immigration agents and released, as many illegal immigrants are,
into the custody of people who described themselves as relatives. More likely,
Sergeant Nevins said, they were his captors.

Sergeant Nevins described them as members of the Fuk Ching gang, kidnappers who
are typically hired by smugglers to handle the immigrants' arrival and payment.

Among those arrested was Reon Zhong Tseng, 26, who the police said shot a man
four times and left him for dead on a street in Elmhurst last year, Sergeant
Nevins said. The victim, a former member of a rival Chinatown gang, the Tong On,
survived and identified Mr. Tseng in a photograph.

Also arrested were two 16-year-old girls, who told the police that they had been
picked up earlier in the evening "to go to a party," Sergeant Nevins said. The
police also found cash, jewelry and a videocassette recorder that were stolen
during a push-in robbery on Ludlow Street in Chinatown earlier in the week, he
added.

The police said another suspect, Jing Tsu Wong, 21, was the ringleader in a
kidnapping that was partly solved in August, when two victims escaped from
another hide-out.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Health Proposal Could Leave Aliens in U.S. Without Care

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1216 words

DATELINE: HARLINGEN, Tex.


At Su Clinica Familiar, the largest community health care center in the Rio
Grande Valley, the issue of whether a patient is an illegal immigrant is met
with a kind of "don't ask, don't tell" policy. If a pregnant women provides a
utility bill or phone bill showing she has a local address, she is legally
entitled to treatment, though only part of it is reimbursable to the clinic
through Medicaid.

A few miles away, at the McAllen Medical Center, where care for indigents costs
the hospital up to $1 million a month, a different strategy prevails.  Private
security guards with green uniforms that bear an uncanny resemblance to those of
the United States Border Patrol have been periodically posted at the entrance.
Critics say they are put there to discourage illegal aliens from walking in.

But officials at these places, and at medical institutions all along the
2,000-mile United States-Mexico border, agree on one thing. Whatever President
Clinton's health care proposal may offer for American citizens, it has left
largely unresolved the question of how to care for the nation's 3.2 million
illegal immigrants, and who should pay for it.

Administration officials say people living illegally in the United States would
not be automatically eligible for the national health security card and standard
package of insurance benefits under the President's plan, though some illegal
workers could be covered if their employers paid their benefits.

The President's proposal would set aside $1 billion in a fund for emergency
treatment of illegal aliens by clinics and hospitals, which remain obligated
under several Federal mandates to treat all sick people regardless of their
legal residency.

But this figure is dismissed as absurdly low by the people who run hospitals
along the border and in cities like New York and Los Angeles, which have large
populations of illegal aliens.  Moreover, many officials grappling with the
problem argue that denying such people basic benefits like preventive care or
immunizations will just compound costs later on, when truly sick people show up
in emergency rooms.

"The rap we get from the anti-immigrant groups is that we are a Mexican birthing
center, that people are walking across the bridge to get treatment here," said
Pete Duarte, the chief executive officer at Thomason Hospital in El Paso, just
across the Rio Grande from Ciudad Juarez.

"But that's a very small part of the problem and realistically, most of these
people have lived here for years," he said, referring to illegal aliens. "The
'enemy,' if you will, is in our midst. It's your maid. It's your gardener. It's
your cooks and your dishwashers. And TB, or H.I.V., or hepatitis, they sure
don't care whether you're documented or not."

A few years ago, the El Paso hospital executives grew so aggravated at the
unreimbursed cost of caring for illegal immigrants that county officials sent
the White House a bill for $10 million, which was ignored. Indigent care, which
covers both illegal and legal residents of El Paso, now costs $50 million a year
out of a hospital budget of $151 million and has been a factor in at least four
recent El Paso County tax increases, Mr. Duarte said.

Here in Harlingen and at a companion health center in nearby Brownsville, the
administrators at the 23-year-old Su Clinica Familiar say they are obliged by
Federal law to treat anyone who is seriously ill or pregnant. With most clients
living at or below the poverty line, the clinic relies heavily on Federal
payments to survive.

But for births, Medicaid, the Federal medical plan for the poor, will cover only
part of the cost of the delivery, and will not cover preventive care. And the
clinic is so jammed, with 30,000 client families and 1,000 families on the
waiting list, that many people who seek routine treatment are turned away. "For
things like that, we basically have a closed-door policy," said Francisco G.
Gonzalez, the executive director.

Mr. Gonzalez said the clinic was legally prohibited from investigating residency
when a patient came in on an emergency basis, while at the same time it was
often denied payment by the Federal Government when it came time to settle the
bills.

But those who treat patients say they have no desire to become detectives
either, kicking people out the door if they do not have proper forms or an
insurance card.

"We don't do police work here," said Jorge A. Garza, a clinic doctor who was
treating a 7-year-old boy who had an ear infection. "We're talking about sick
human beings, people who need some help. That's what I do." The boy, having been
born here, is an American citizen; but his mother, though she has lived in
Harlingen for five years, does not have citizenship, and the family is
uninsured.

The Only Place

For pregnant women, many of whom said they had come here in recent years because
they heard about plentiful service jobs that are now proving scarce, the clinic
represents the only place where they can get any level of check-ups and prenatal
care.

The cost for prenatal care is $300, but some said they could only afford
payments of as little as $5 a month. The clinic will generally allow this and go
ahead with treatment in the hope of reducing the chance of a complicated or
dangerous delivery later.

"I didn't come to this country because of the health care, I came here for
work," said 34-year-old Maria Luisa Martinez, who moved here 12 years ago from
Guadalajara, Mexico, and is expecting her third child in December. She applied
to become a citizen several years ago, she said, but the process stalled when
she and her husband, who was already a citizen, separated.

"It's true that you should be an American citizen," she said. "I want to be an
American citizen. My children are Americans. But what do I do now? Just not go
to a hospital at all, because I do not have the piece of paper?"

Elsewhere in the Rio Grande Valley, there is anxiety that provisions against
providing national health insurance for illegal aliens could dry up even the
small amounts of money now available for treating them.

Asked to discuss the prospects that officials in Washington will provide some
relief, Bill Elliott, the director of community relations at Valley Baptist
Medical Center in Harlingen, said: "It's a short story. They don't deal with
illegal immigrants."

"But when a person comes in bleeding and injured, his immigration status is not
the most important thing," added Mr. Elliott, who said the hospital wrote off
$28 million in charity care for the indigent last year.

Clinton Administration officials have said in recent weeks that there may be
negotiations over providing certain preventive treatment for illegal aliens or
perhaps providing block grants to the states for such programs.

At the same time, though, there is considerable worry in both the White House
and on Capitol Hill that providing even a minimal package of preventive-care
measures for illegal aliens, including immunizations and prenatal care, could
stoke anti-immigrant protests throughout the country because they could be
interpreted as sanctioning illegal immigration.

"This issue scares people to death," said one Democratic Congressional aide
familiar with initial talks over the health plan.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We don't do police work here," said Jorge A. Garza, a clinic
doctor who was recently treated a 7-year-old boy who had an ear infection.
"We're talking about sick human beings, people who need some help. That's what I
do." The boy having been born here, is an American citizen but his mother, Maria
Del Rosario Silva, who lives in Harlingen, Tex., is not. The family is
uninsured. "I didn't come to this country because of the health care, I came
here for work," said Maria Luisa Martinez, 34, who moved here 12 years ago from
Mexico and is expecting her third child in December. Maria Zamora, right, a
nurse, took her medical history during an appointment for prenatal care at Su
Clinica Familiar in Harlingen, Tex. (Photographs by Hart Van Denburg for The New
York Times)(pg. A14)

Map of Texas showing location of Harlingen. (pg. A14)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 31, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Florida Seeks U.S. Aid For Illegal Immigrants

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 30


Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida has ordered his state to sue the Federal
Government to try to reduce the flow of illegal immigrants and recoup the money
Florida is forced to spend on social services for them.

"The people of Florida should not be compelled to subsidize the entry of illegal
aliens into the United States, nor should they tolerate continued failure of the
United States Government to carry out its duty under the law," Mr. Chiles wrote
in a letter to the State Attorney General, Bob Butterworth, this week.

Mr. Chiles' office estimated that Florida spent at least $739 million in 1992 to
provide health care, education, housing and other social services to immigrants
and political refugees. In his letter, the Governor said Florida should get full
reimbursement for the services and care it gives illegal aliens.

"If the United States Government chooses to selectively enforce the law, it has
a corresponding obligation to incur the costs," the Governor wrote.

Mr. Chiles' action is the latest in a heated discussion about the nation's
ability to absorb new arrivals from abroad. In August, Gov. Pete Wilson of
California, the state that received more immigrants than any other during the
1980's, urged Congress to require identity cards for legal immigrants. He also
called for a constitutional amendment to deny citizenship to the children of
illegal immigrants.

Other States Complain, Too

Officials in Texas and Illinois have also complained that Washington has not
helped them bear the rising cost of social services for immigrants. And both New
York and California have in recent years sued the Federal Government as they
sought relief from part of that burden. In both instances courts dismissed the
complaints.

But Florida's Deputy Attorney General, Pete Antonacci, said today that he
thought the new suit stood a better chance of success partly because the factual
issues were slightly different and partly because more judges were becoming
sympathetic to the difficult position of states. "As the situation worsens, the
courts are going to take a realistic approach in dealing with this problem," he
said.

As an example, Mr. Antonacci cited the Supreme Court's decision in a challenge
to the 1990 Census. He said he found the case comforting because "the underlying
theory is that the judiciary should give the executive a wide berth except when
entitlement programs are involved or there are consequences to cities and states
that are financial and not political."

He noted that the challenge was ultimately rejected but that "there are four
votes that are still there" in favor of Florida's position.

Asked if Mr. Chiles intended to pursue the suit all the way to the Supreme
Court, Mr. Antonacci replied, "We'll go wherever we need to go to get people to
hear us."

Immigration is now at its highest point since the early years of this century.
Experts have estimated that more than 1.2 million people a year, mostly Latin
Americans and Asians, have entered the United States legally or illegally in
recent years.

More than three-quarters of all legal immigrants are concentrated in six states:
California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas. When illegal
immigrants are added in, that proportion rises to about 90 percent, demographers
say.

Politics in Florida

Mr. Chiles, a Democrat who was elected in 1990 on a populist platform and said
he would run for a second term next year, has in the past been sympathetic to
the aspirations of newly arrived immigrants. He is likely to face a stiff
Republican challenge in 1994, and the position he has taken in ordering the
lawsuit is one that has already proved popular in Florida.

At the same time, Mr. Chiles is trying not to alienate the state's powerful
Cuban constituency or other voters of Latin American or Caribbean descent.  He
sought to draw a distinction in his letter between political refugees who are
fleeing oppression and illegal immigrants who are looking for economic
opportunities. "There is no intent to cast any aspersion on people seeking
freedom in this country," the Governor's communications director, Ron Sachs,
said today.

Nevertheless, in his letter, Mr. Chiles complained of the way in which
Washington handles political-asylum claims. He was especially critical of the
common practice of allowing refugees to stay while their cases are being heard.

Mr. Chiles was not available today to comment about his action. But Mr. Sachs
said the Governor had acted after years of frustration with Federal immigration
policies. Mr. Chiles was a United States Senator at the time of the Mariel
influx from Cuba in 1980.

Mr. Chiles "has exhausted the appropriate diplomatic channels of letters, visits
and phone calls" in trying to persuade the Federal Government to reimburse the
state for the costs of immigration, Mr. Sachs said.

Diplomacy Fails

Among those efforts was a letter Mr. Chiles and the Governors of New York,
Texas, California and Illinois sent to President Clinton in January, calling for
the new President to "restore a partnership with the states" in paying for the
costs of immigration.

"If the Federal Government wishes to sustain a humanitarian foreign policy which
fosters immigration and refugee admissions, then it must allocate the financial
resources required to support this population once it has arrived," the five
Governors wrote.

Since 1980, Florida absorbed three large, unexpected waves of immigrants that
were direct results of American foreign policy, and Mr. Chiles has repeatedly
complained that the Federal Government has provided virtually no help. The
125,000 Cubans who came to the state in the Mariel boat lift were followed later
in the decade by an estimated 100,000 Nicaraguans in the late 1980's and an
equal number of Haitians in recent surges. The Haitians, unlike the Cubans and
Nicaraguans, are not classified as political refugees.

People from all three countries are still coming and have tended to cluster
around Miami, giving the local economy a burst of energy and investment but
adding to demands for social services. One-quarter of the pupils in the Dade
County school system were born outside the United States, and the county's
largest hospital estimates the cost of treating undocumented immigrants at $300
million over the last three years.

"When do we reach the saturation point?" Florida's coordinator of immigrant and
refugee affairs, Nancy Wittenberg, asked in a telephone interview today. "It
gets more and more difficult to respond, and transportation and jobs and
everything else become a problem. You have to stop somewhere and examine the
whole scenario, and that's what we are trying to do."

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 6, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

2 Men Plead Guilty In Illegal Alien Case

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 148 words


The two top-ranking figures aboard the Golden Venture, the freighter that ran
aground off Queens last June with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants aboard,
pleaded guilty yesterday to reduced charges in plea deals.

Lawyers in the case said the deals call for the two men -- the owner of record
and the captain -- to cooperate with investigators seeking those who are
believed to be the organizers of the smuggling operation, none of whom have been
arrested or charged in the case. Ten of the aliens died in their attempts to
swim ashore after the ship struck a sandbar after a four-month journey from
Southeast Asia.

The owner of record, Kin Sin Lee, 24, pleaded to one count of conspiring to
smuggle illegal aliens into the United States and one count of engaging in
maritime misconduct that resulted in death, crimes punishable by a maximum total
of 15 years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

California's Tide of Illegal Aliens Ebbs

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1641 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 8


Even as public resentment over a perceived invasion of California by illegal
aliens has soared, the tide of illegal immigration here may in fact have begun
to ebb.

While thousands of illegal aliens from Mexico and Central American still
illegally cross the California-Mexico border every day, their numbers seem to be
declining even as substantial numbers of aliens already illegally here appear to
be returning home. The effect has still been a net increase in illegal
immigrants in California over the last year, the experts say, but in declining
numbers.

Many of the aliens who say they are returning home report that they are unable
to find work or are fed up with crime, poor schools and urban congestion.

End of a Dream

"The American dream is not true," said Jose Chavez, a 20-year-old laborer from
Michoacan, Mexico, who said he was returning home after three years in Los
Angeles. "It didn't happen. I have no more dreams, no way to pay the rent."

Standing on one of the hundreds of street corners where such aliens wait daily
for job offers, Mr. Chavez said he had not had a day's work for more than two
weeks.

The Mexican Consulate here reports that the number of Mexicans seeking permits
to ship their household belongings back to Mexico from the Los Angeles area in
1993 nearly doubled to 1,330 from 735 in 1992.

As ever, with the elusive world of migration from Mexico, in which families are
often made up of both legal and illegal residents, these figures can be
misinterpreted. Many Mexicans use these permits to ship televisions and other
consumer goods to sell at a profit or give to relatives in Mexico. The shippers
do not necessarily intend to repatriate themselves. But the consulate's figures
tend to corroborate other data.

Apprehensions Down 6%

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, apprehensions of
illegal aliens trying to cross the California-Mexico border dropped by about 6
percent in the year ended Sept. 30 compared with the same period a year earlier,
to 531,689 from 565,581. And the Census Bureau reported last month that for the
first time in 20 years, California's population grew at a slower rate than the
nation's as a whole.

All of this will have only a slight immediate effect in a state that absorbed
half of all legal and illegal immigration into the United States in the 1980's,
bringing massive social and economic change to Los Angeles and other cities.
Immigration experts estimate that of California's 30 million residents, 1
million are illegal aliens, most of them Mexicans.

While initially welcomed as a source of cheap, hard-working labor when
California was booming, the Mexican immigrants are now widely perceived as
taking jobs away from Americans, causing street crime, graffiti and housing
decay and for placing huge financial burdens on school districts, welfare
agencies and other public services.

Politicians, including Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, and liberals like Senator
Barbara Boxer, a Democrat, have joined a growing chorus demanding tighter border
controls and other measures to discourage immigration.

Economy Tighter Than Border

But it appears that California's protracted economic slump has begun to have the
same effect. The slump devastated the industries in which the immigrants, both
legal and not, have long worked as day laborers, like construction and
landscaping.

"Street-corner labor markets have become overpopulated relative to the demand,"
said Wayne A. Cornelius, director of the Center for United States-Mexican
Studies at the University of California at San Diego. He said that he believed
that men like Mr. Chavez were returning home and telling others in Mexico not to
come to California because there was not enough income to be earned, especially
for families with children.

Excess of Farm Workers

Much the same is happening in farm areas, said Don Villarejo, director of the
California Institute for Rural Studies in Sacramento. "There is an oversupply of
available workers," he said.

Reliable statistics on illegal immigration, given its nature, are difficult to
obtain. But anecdotal evidence from interviews with more than 20 illegal aliens
on the streets of Los Angeles and Orange Counties suggests they are becoming
discouraged. Many men said they had sent their families home.

Jorge Lopez, another Mexican immigrant who stood at the same corner waiting for
work as Mr. Chavez, said things had gone from bad to worse in the last three
years. "I think I will return to Mexico," said Mr. Lopez, 20. "Everyday it's
more difficult."

Mr. Lopez said he had gone five days without work and was struggling to pay
bills in the hotel where he lives with three other workers. "There's just no
work," he said.

Indirect indicators also point to a slower flow of illegal aliens. School
enrollments this year in cities with large Mexican populations, like Santa Ana
and Anaheim in Orange County, are lower than expected.

Since 1987, Mexican researchers at the Colegio de la Frontera Norte, a private
research institute in Tijuana, have been surveying illegal aliens crossing
almost the entire 2,000-mile border from California to Texas. The director,
Jorge Bustamante, said that the early years of the American recession had seen
no letup in northward migration but that researchers had recently noticed a
small decline in the increase in illegal entries into the United States: 5
percent in 1993 and 8 percent in 1992.

Illegal immigration from Mexico, as gauged by the United States Border Patrol's
apprehension of would-be immigrants, soared in the 1980's until the enactment of
the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. The law gave amnesty to
long-term illegal residents but sought to deter further immigration by imposing
heavy penalties on employers who hire people without proper documentation.

Big Drop in Apprehensions

The law achieved its purpose at first; apprehensions plummeted after it went
into effect. The number of illegal aliens apprehended peaked at 1.7 million in
1986 before dropping to 891,000 in 1989. The number has been rising steadily
ever since. And while apprehensions on the California border dropped in 1993,
the total number rose to 1.3 million from 1.2 million the previous year.

The reasons for the decline in California are unclear, but one possibility is
that immigrants have switched destinations to economically healthier states like
Texas and Colorado.

If illegal immigration is indeed abating, experts cite a variety of reasons,
including the recession, greater American political and government efforts to
stop it, the end of civil war in El Salvador and the passage of the North
American Free Trade Agreement, which has bolstered hopes of economic improvement
in Mexico.

"Everybody thinks the streets are paved with gold here and they find that is not
the case," said Alan C. Nelson, a former commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service who is now a consultant and lobbyist in Sacramento for
the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a national anti-immigration
group.

"It's not as easy to get jobs and welfare benefits as it used to be," he added.
"They read the papers, listen to radio and TV. Word gets around that things have
tightened up."

'Gangsters, Guns and Drugs'

Carol Pacheco, a medical clerk who lives in Long Beach, is a legal resident who
came here as a child with her mother and married an American. Ms. Pacheco, now
divorced, was at the Mexican Consulate a week ago to prepare to emigrate to her
birthplace of Colima, Mexico, along with her 10-year-old daughter.

"I don't want to send her to school here," she said, clutching her papers. "As
soon as you start junior high, it's gangsters, guns and drugs. I don't have
nothing against Americans. It's just the city itself, how it's going."

Some aliens are leaving because tougher law enforcement has made it much harder
to get the counterfeit green cards and other papers that used to be so
available. Jose Jaramillo, a 37-year-old mechanic, is planning to repatriate to
Veracruz, Mexico, after 20 years in California because he fears it will be
impossible to get more work.

"I used to have a green card that I bought," he said. "But I lost it, so I'm in
trouble. When I first came, it was easy to get I.D. Right now you can't get
anything."

But that is not the only reason. He and his wife, Marta, have three boys, and he
is reluctant to have them grow up in gang-ridden Los Angeles County. "I am
trying to get my children raised in Mexico, to learn other ways," he said. "I
don't want to see my boys getting involved with gang bangers."

Job Offers Drying Up

Mr. Chavez, the 20-year-old Mexican, is among the several dozen day laborers who
line up each morning along Sawtelle Avenue in West Los Angeles, hoping to get
job offers from contractors and homeowners. In 1991, before the recession bit
deeply, Mr. Chavez said he could earn $250 a week in roofing, street paving and
landscaping.

But the last time he had more than a day of work in a week was in November, he
said, when he earned $150 for three days of roofing. He lives in a small
apartment in the rough Pico-Union district near downtown where his four
roommates are lending him his share of the $450 monthly rent.

He has reached the end of the line in the United States. Mr. Chavez said he was
flying back to his hometown of Morelia to try to make a living in the fields
where his parents and 10 brothers have worked most of their lives.

"I have no way to pay the rent," he said. "I don't want to live in the streets
or in the mission. If there are employers, there's lots of work. But when
there's no work, I don't eat."

He said he had no illusions that he could earn much money in Mexico beyond
enough for food. But, he added, "I miss my family."


LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: As illegal aliens continue to cross the California-Mexico border
every day, substantial numbers are returning home. Humberto Tamez, left, worked
with Claudia Meraz, a clerk at the Consulate General of Mexico in Los Angeles,
to complete the forms to return his personal belongings to Mexico; "The American
dream is not true," said Jose Chavez, who is returning to Mexico after three
years in Los Angeles. "It didn't happen. I have no more dreams, no way to pay
the rent." Photographs by Michael Tweed for The New York Times)

Graph: "Stemming the Tide" tracks number of border arrests of illegal immigrants
from Mexico along the California border. (Source: Immigration and Naturalization
Service)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 11, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

The Unfair Immigration Burden

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 464 words


A handful of states have been inundated by illegal immigrants and are unfairly
bearing the costs that should be borne by the entire nation. They deserve a
helping hand when President Clinton submits his budget to Congress next month.

Only a few states -- California, Texas, Illinois, Florida, New York and New
Jersey -- account for the vast majority of the estimated five million illegal,
often poor immigrants who have entered the U.S. over the last decade. California
alone may account for half. Cities like Los Angeles and New York have been
pounded by costs associated with new immigrants.

The Governors of Florida and California are planning to sue Washington for money
their states spend providing education and emergency health care for illegal
immigrants. Their plea is just.

Gov. Pete Wilson says California wants Washington to pay more than $2 billion a
year that his state spends on education, emergency health care, prisons and
other outlays on illegal immigrants. Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida wants
Washington to pick up the $750 million tab that his state has spent on illegal
immigrants from Cuba, Nicaragua and Haiti, among others. New York spends at
least $800 million a year on illegal immigrants. But to help meet these huge
budget hits, Congress has allotted a measly $35 million.

California and Florida didn't invite illegal immigrants; nor did these states
create the poverty that plagues those unfortunate families. Illegal immigrants
are no more the responsibility of taxpayers in Los Angeles than they are of
taxpayers in Butte. After all, Washington sets the nation's immigration laws; it
also decides how carefully its laws are enforced. It follows that Washington
ought to pay for the consequences of porous borders.

If Congress refuses to recognize the plight of Florida, California and New York,
the political mood will inevitably turn ugly. Governor Wilson has already
proposed denying illegal immigrants education and some other services. And if
such costs are piled onto already strapped state budgets, states may react with
stingy services for all poor residents. Worse, demagogues will be tempted to
demonize all immigrants, legal and illegal, many of whom are guilty of no more
than fleeing political oppression and economic degradation.

There's a humane palliative. Congress can find the few billion dollars a year it
would take to ease the burden on the worst-hit state budgets. The costs of
illegal immigration in the U.S. aren't huge in total. But they are back-breaking
in cities like New York and Los Angeles. Congress needs to rescue hard-pressed
localities. Then it can turn to the harder task of rescuing individuals trapped
in poverty -- taking them off welfare rolls and connecting them permanently to
useful work.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 14, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
The Politics of Nativism

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 29; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 679 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif.


When California political consultants talk with their focus groups these days
about such issues as crime, schools or jobs, they find an underlying concern
about something else: immigration. There is a strain of ferocious anti-immigrant
feeling in the state.

Fear of immigrants is not new in California. As long ago as 1848 an outcry
against Peruvian miners led to a Foreign Miners Tax, and there has been periodic
anti-immigrant fever since.

The present agitation focuses on illegal immigration. Of California's population
of 31 million, about 1 million are estimated to be undocumented aliens, most of
them from Mexico and other Latin American countries.  But the hostility really
seems to extend to all immigrants, legally admitted or not.

The anti-immigrant mood is plainly connected to California's current economic
distress. It is said that immigrants take jobs away from citizens and put a
costly burden on schools, hospitals and other public facilities.

In fact, most economists believe that immigrants benefit, not burden, the
economy. Julian L. Simon of the University of Maryland, writing in The Wall
Street Journal last year, showed that immigrants do not reduce others' jobs and
that the average immigrant family pays $2,500 more in taxes annually than it
receives in public services. (But most of the tax money goes to the Federal
Government rather than the localities that pay for such things as schools.)

"Some people genuinely worry about the problem of too many immigrants in a
stagnant economy," Prof. Bill O. Hing, an immigration expert at the Stanford Law
School, says. "But for most, economics is a diversion. Underneath it is race."

People say that immigrants are clannish, live by themselves, don't speak
English. All of those things were said 100 years ago about Jews and Italians and
others whom nativists denounced as "undesirable immigrants." Much of what is
going on in California today is old-fashioned nativism or xenophobia.

A frequent claim, for example, is that today's immigrants do not assimilate as
readily as those in the past. But English-language courses have long waiting
lists.

The historic American pattern of striving immigrants building the economy also
continues. Here in San Jose, the big city of Silicon Valley, Vietnamese are
about 10 percent of the population. Vietnamese businesses are thriving, and many
a high school valedictorian is of Vietnamese origin.

But facts are being overwhelmed by the emotions of fear and hatred. And
politicians are running with those feelings much the same way they used to with
anti-Communism.

Gov. Pete Wilson has staked out the low ground on the issue. Last summer he
published an open letter to President Clinton demanding sweeping measures
against illegal immigrants.

Mr. Wilson called for a constitutional amendment to repeal the 14th Amendment's
provision that everyone born in the United States is a citizen. American-born
children of illegal immigrants should not be citizens, he said -- and should be
denied the right to attend public schools.

The Supreme Court held in 1982 that denying education to illegal aliens was
unconstitutional. Even the dissenters, in an opinion by then Chief Justice
Warren Burger, said that as a matter of social policy it would be "senseless for
an enlightened society to deprive any children . . . of an elementary
education."

The Governor sought advice from the Federation for American Immigration Reform
(FAIR), an anti-immigration group, which urged him to seek exclusion of
undocumented aliens from public hospitals and schools. FAIR gets support from a
New York foundation, the Pioneer Fund, that also subsidizes researchers seeking
to prove that blacks and Latinos are inherently inferior.

Democratic politicians have tried to jump on the anti-immigrant bandwagon.
Senators Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer have proposed fierce new measures to
tighten the border. But one political observer, paraphrasing the saying about a
segregationist Senator in the old South, said: "Nobody's going to out-immigrate
Pete Wilson."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Watch This Intellectual Space . . .

SECTION: Section 4; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 329 words


Take off all your clothes and smear your body with chocolate. Scatter severed
body parts from dead cows on the steps of public buildings. Shave half your head
and dress half as a man, half as a woman. Then get the government to pay you for
doing it. Welcome to the world of conceptual art.

Conceptual artists, like their more traditional colleagues, like to challenge
the public's sense of what's normal, what's real, what's art. Their medium is
themselves. Most of them have a pretty highly developed sense of the ridiculous,
so maybe it was just a matter of time before some of them decided to go one step
further.

Now three artists in California have not only skipped the idea of the canvas or
the page or the frame of celluloid -- they've even skipped themselves. Now the
medium is the money. Having secured a grant for an arts project about the border
between Mexico and the United States, they just took the money and started
giving it away. To illegal aliens.

One of the artists, David Avalos, said the act of giving the money away was a
statement about "the interaction of physical space with intellectual space and
civic space." Which only proves the widely held belief that artists should never
talk about their work, and that you can make an intimidatingly opaque statement
about just about anything if you're trying to get (or rationalize) an arts
grant.

It also proves that no matter how hard you try to defend the rights of
outrageous but legitimate artists like Robert Mapplethorp from the attacks of
the philistine right, there will be a solid but small bunch of loonies out there
who are ready to undermine you.

It's one thing to say the Government should support art with upsetting content,
and quite another to sanction the act of simply sending taxpayers' dollars
straight down the gurgler. Lots of people, unfortunately, will lump the two
efforts together as part of the great Conspiracy of Effete Weirdos bent on
bleeding the Government.


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 26, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Arts Vigilantes Find a New Quarry to Pursue

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 454 words



To the Editor:

"In the scrub-covered hills north of the Mexican border," your Aug. 12 front
page reports, "three experimental artists supported by a Federal arts grant are
handing out crisp $10 bills to illegal immigrants."

I was assistant director of the museum program at the National Endowment for the
Arts four years ago in the period when the Museum of Contemporary Art in San
Diego was awarded a grant for "Dos Ciudades/ Two Cities." This multiyear project
received $250,000, the highest amount available under the special artistic
initiative category, to be matched 3 to 1 with non-Federal funds.

The intent of the project, consisting of a series of exhibitions, funds for
artists in residence, commissions, educational programs and a catalogue, was to
focus on the border separating San Diego from Tijuana, and by extension the
United States from Mexico and the third world. The particular component of this
project that has made headlines is a $5,000 commission from the museum to three
artists -- David Avalos, Louis Hock and Elizabeth Sisco -- to create a piece
that reflected on this theme.

Given the 3 to 1 match, at the very most the commission involves $1,250 of
Federal funds.

The outcry over this project is not just another attack on the freedom of
expression of artists or the inappropriateness of political commentary in a
federally funded art project. It represents a more subtle form of intimidation.
The arts endowment grant was not awarded to the three artists, but rather to one
of the most highly respected contemporary art museums in this country. Its
director, Hugh Davies, is internationally regarded as a pre-eminent scholar in
contemporary art.

To attack the museum or the National Endowment for the Arts for awarding the
grant is to support a much more dangerous precedent: that the long arm of the
Government can extend into the artistic decision making of individual
organizations after the award of a grant.

If one wishes to push this to an extreme, this can extend to how contemporary
culture is presented "officially" to the public.

One could debate whether or not the handing out of new $10 bills to undocumented
migrant workers is great art, but there can be no question that an intelligent
project willing to look unflinchingly at the difficult border issues in its
region is worthy of Government support.

As timing would have it, however, the issue of immigration has become a
political mine field. So the National Endowment for the Arts has been placed on
the defensive again, and there is fear that it will be penalized in the
reauthorization, appropriation and confirmation hearings it faces next month.

NANCY L. PRESSLY
Washington, Aug. 15, 1993

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 14, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Is in a Quandary as Chinese Wait Off Shore

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 910 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13


Ten days after the Coast Guard stopped three ships trying to smuggle 659 Chinese
into California, senior officials in the Clinton Administration continued to
argue over solutions -- none attractive -- to the increasingly difficult and
embarrassing situation.

As the United States continued to press the Mexican Government to accept the
refugees, the crowded, fetid ships remained about 100 miles southwest of San
Diego, surrounded by Coast Guard cutters.

The ships represent the first test of the Clinton Administration's vow to crack
down on illegal immigration, a vow made after another smuggler's ship, the
Golden Venture, spilled nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants onto New York's
shores last month.

Even as it wavered over action on the three ships, the Administration said today
that it would back tough new legislation on asylum seekers.

Ejected the Same Day

The measure will allow quick and summary hearings for people who request asylum
at airports and other ports of entry, and would stiffen penalties against alien
smugglers.

Government officials and others familiar with the plan say it includes charging
alien smugglers under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. As
a result it will allow Federal prosecutors to seize the assets of smugglers,
including ships like the Golden Venture.

Under the bill, a corps of immigration officers will screen aliens caught trying
to enter the country without proper documents to determine if their asylum
claims are worthy to be heard by an immigration judge. Those whose claims are
deemed frivolous could be placed on airplanes and sent back to their country of
origin on the same day they arrived in the United States.

Under current immigration law, an alien's statement that he has a well-founded
fear of persecution is generally sufficient to allow him to be scheduled for a
hearing. The hearing process can take years, during which the applicant is
generally allowed to stay in the United States.

Immigration experts say that in 1992 about 14,000 people tried to enter the
country without documents or by using fraudulent documents and then claimed
asylum. A sizeable percentage of them turned up at Kennedy International Airport
in New York, the experts said.

Unpleasant Alternatives

The bill, which is to be announced when President Clinton returns to Washington,
was drafted by Congressional staffs and an interagency task force made up of
officials from the Justice Department, the State Department, the Office of
Management and Budget and the White House.

For the last 10 days, senior officials of the Departments of State, Defense,
Justice and Transportation and the Central Intelligence Agency have been
struggling with the problem of the three ships off Mexico. The officials are
considering these alternatives, immigration officials said:

*Allow the refugees into the United States and hear their pleas for political
asylum. State Department and immigration service officials vow they will not let
that happen.

*Dragoon the refugees onto a United States Navy vessel and ship them back to
China. But the Navy wants no part of that plan, immigration officials said.

*Force the home nation of the freighters to take their human cargo. No one is
sure of the ships' true flags; two of the ships claimed Taiwanese registry, an
assertion the Government of Taiwan denies.

'U.S.A. I Love You'

The United States imposed a news blackout on the ships today, keeping the faces
of the Chinese passengers waving signs -- "USA I Love You" and "Bread We Want,
Freedom We Want" -- off television and out of the newspapers.

No responsible official would comment publicly on the stranded refugees, the
so-far fruitless talks with the Mexican Government or the implications for the
new policy of preventing boatloads of immigrants from applying for political
asylum.

The State Department spokesman, Michael McCurry, said it was "obvious that this
is a sensitive matter of diplomacy." He also said it was "being addressed with
urgency on the part of the officials here in the United States that are dealing
with it," and added, "We remain in contact with the Mexican Government" on the
issue of Mexico's accepting the refugees.

Such contacts were at best strained. Senior Mexican officials insisted that they
would not take on the immigration problems of the United States, and expressed
fury at the way the situation has been handled.

A Backlog of Applications

Simply put, the Administration wants to prevent the Chinese refugees aboard the
ship from applying for political asylum in the United States. The system has
due-process requirements and legal protections that can take months and years to
fulfill. It is hard-pressed to handle its backlog of applications: 10,000 new
requests a month, and 300,000 people on a waiting list.

The United States also wants to prevent a repeat of the June 6 wreck of the
Golden Venture, in which 10 Chinese died trying to swim ashore. All but 14 of
the 301 illegal immigrants who survived the beaching are still being detained in
Immigration and Naturalization Service prisons in Pennsylvania and Louisiana, an
I.N.S. spokeswoman said yesterday.

By intercepting the three ships at sea, the United States aims to send a signal
that might stop tens of thousands of Chinese people from paying smugglers tens
of thousands of dollars apiece to take them to the United States in the filthy
holds of freighters.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 25, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

From China to America, Via Moscow

BYLINE: By Merle Linda Wolin;  Merle Linda Wolin recently produced several news
features on Chinese alien smuggling for Fox Television.

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


It's well known that illegal Chinese immigrants are being smuggled into the
United States by boat, by air and over land. What is still virtually unknown is
that a number of the estimated 100,000 Chinese being smuggled here each year are
routed first through Moscow. If the U.S. ever hopes to stop this flow, it must
develop a comprehensive international policy to thwart the smuggling closer to
its source.

"We have information that Moscow is a very important staging area, one of the
more important in Europe," said Jeannette L. Chu, who coordinates Chinese alien
smuggling investigations involving air travel and land crossings for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Ms. Chu explained that Moscow has become important in this international scheme
because the smugglers realize that Russia is a country in great flux, with few
immigration controls or anti-smuggling laws. Yet it's also a transportation hub
for flights to Europe. Ms. Chu said unconfirmed reports estimate that as many as
50,000 Chinese emigres are waiting in Moscow for transit to the U.S.

In May a production team for Fox Television conducted interviews in Moscow with
two Chinese smugglers, a Russian interpreter for various Chinese crime
syndicates, a Russian law enforcement official and some would-be Chinese
immigrants. These people were found by two reporters for Kommersant, a financial
newspaper in Moscow. The interviews offered a rare glimpse into how the
operation works. It's an ingenious effort by Chinese smugglers, known as
"snakeheads," and their Russian partners to outwit or buy off officials from
Moscow to Madrid to Mogadishu.

The Russian interpreter said that Chinese smugglers in Moscow have set up
numerous businesses for the purpose of issuing "invitations" to their Chinese
compatriots back home -- the documents needed to get a Chinese passport and to
get into Russia. The cost: anywhere from $300 to $3,000.

With proper papers in hand, the Chinese migrants travel overland from Fujian
Province on China's southern coast, where most Chinese illegals in the U.S. come
from, to either Beijing, where they pay $200 for a one-way rail trip to Moscow,
or to Khabarovsk in eastern Russia, just a hop over the northeastern Chinese
border. There, the emigres board the trans-Siberian railway for a six-day,
5,000-mile journey to the Russian capital.

Arriving twice weekly at Moscow's Yaroslavsky Railway Station, the Chinese
migrants are met by emissaries of the smugglers who arrange for housing and
transportation. The emigres are usually housed in hotels that are not officially
registered with the Russian authorities. These are dilapidated high-rise
buildings often located in high-crime areas. The Fox team saw Russians guards,
hired by the smugglers, patrol the hallways, aggressively keeping out the
public.

Once settled in Moscow, the Chinese emigre focuses on getting a Russian
passport, a third-country visa and the training needed to succeed in the West.
The passport, necessary to get out of Russia, is most easily obtained in places
like independent Kazakhstan, where locals resemble ethnic Chinese and are
willing, for the right price, to sell their passports.

The third-country visa is needed to get closer to the U.S. It is obtained most
readily, one smuggler said, from African countries like Libya, Liberia and
Somalia. A U.S. visa is difficult to obtain in Moscow, the interpreter
explained, but for $7,000 to $10,000, not impossible.

The smugglers and the migrants have no intention of going anywhere near Africa.
But now the smugglers can buy the emigres round-trip tickets to these countries
with a connecting flight in Spain. There a smuggler's operative will exchange
the emigre's Russian passport for an altogether fake one, often manufactured in
Thailand.

These fake documents resemble the genuine passports of Asian countries like
Taiwan and Hong Kong, and are so good that they can hardly be detected by
ordinary customs officials. The smuggler noted an additional advantage: by using
phony passports from countries with mostly Chinese populations, the emigre is
"not likely to arouse suspicion" among U.S. officials.

This becomes important once the emigre is in Spain, because he's now going to
buy a one-way ticket "home" -- with a stopover, of course, in the United States.

What happens next depends largely on how well the emigre was coached in Moscow.
The emigres stay in Moscow for one to two months to undergo special training, a
smuggler said.  "They learn simple English, as well as how to turn themselves in
to the immigration service," he said.

When asked what the emigres learn to say to the immigration service, the
smuggler replied: "To plead, some cite the June 4 movement in China [Tiananmen
Square]. They say, 'We had been persecuted by the Chinese Government.' Others
say, 'We would like to raise a family but China allows only one child per
couple.' Or 'We have no human rights.' "

The smuggler said that legal entry into the U.S. "becomes a cinch" for most of
his "students." He claimed that in the last few years between 80 and 90 percent
of all Chinese migrants he and his cohorts have tried to smuggle in have gotten
through, around 30,000.

The success rate wouldn't be so high without complicity from some Russians.
"This is a big problem now because of the corruption of Russian authorities,"
said Kirill Osmolovsky, the special prosecutor of Moscow's Regional
Transportation Department.

Russian authorities are willing, even eager, to cooperate with American
officials. But the U.S. response has been tepid. True, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation recently sent over one agent to assist Russian authorities in
their incipient efforts to combat organized crime.

But more assistance is needed if the U.S. is not to become swamped with Chinese
asylum seekers and illegals who, if they do make it, live among us as
frightened, indentured servants.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Three Smuggled Refugees Are Granted Asylum

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 27;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words


Three Chinese men detained for nearly a year since reaching New York aboard a
smuggler's freighter that ran aground off Queens were released by immigration
authorities Friday night, weeks after a judge granted them political asylum on
the unusual grounds of their homeland's coercive population-control policies.

Lawyers for the men said yesterday that they believed their clients were the
first of about 285 immigrants who straggled ashore from the Golden Venture on
June 6 to be released after being granted asylum by an immigration judge because
they feared persecution under China's policy of limiting families to one child.

The three men -- Ben-Xu Chen, Yu Lin and Guo-Wu Lin, each the father of two
children in China -- were released Friday night from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service Detention Center at 201 Varick Street in Manhattan
without any official explanation. After meeting with their lawyers, they went to
stay with friends or relatives in New York and Pennsylvania. They are free to
live and work anywhere in the country and may apply to bring their families from
China.

'Relief From Deportation'

Chip Bogdanski, a spokesman for the immigration service, confirmed a report in
The Daily News yesterday that the three men had been released, but declined to
discuss details of their cases or the timing or reasons for their release beyond
saying an immigration judge had "granted them relief from deportation."

The released men could not be reached yesterday, but their lawyers said each of
the men, whom they described as peasants from villages where population-control
measures were being enforced, had been granted political asylum more than a
month ago. Immigration Judge Alan Vomacka, they said, had upheld their claims
that they feared forced sterilizations and other persecution over the one-child
policy.

Judge Vomacka could not be reached for comment.

The lawyers also criticized the immigration authorities for holding their
clients so long after they had won their cases. "I think the I.N.S. has behaved
quite outrageously," said Michael Osborne, who represents Mr. Chen.

He said Mr. Chen, 33, was granted asylum on April 19 and had applied for release
immediately, but the immigration service said it would appeal the ruling and
hold him in the meantime. Mr. Osborne said the service, without explanation, had
abruptly dropped its appeal last week and released Mr. Chen and the other men.

Another lawyer, Bruno Bembi, representing Mr. Lin, gave a similar account on
behalf of his client. Stanley Mark, of the Asian-American Legal Defense and
Education Fund, who represents Guo-Wu Lin, could not be reached.

Mr. Bembi noted that the Board of Immigration Appeals since 1989 had repeatedly
denied asylum claims by people expressing fear of persecution under China's
population-control policies.

Bush Administration Order

The basis for these denials was a precedent-setting 1989 case, known as the
Matter of Chang, in which an immigration court held that China's one-child
policy did not necessarily constitute political persecution. Since that case,
Mr. Osborne said, he knew of no asylum claim citing the population-control
policy that has been approved.

This pattern has been followed, he and Mr. Bembi said, despite an executive
order by President George Bush in April 1990 that gave enhanced consideration
for those who could prove they had been subject to coercive family-planning
policies. Mr. Bembi said it was apparently Mr. Bush's order that Judge Vomacka
used as the basis for granting asylum to the men released on Friday.

About 220 of the immigrants who arrived on the Golden Venture are still in
immigratation detention centers in New York, Pennsylvania, Louisiana and other
places. While immigration officials have supplied no details, lawyers say more
than 50 have been released, about half on parole pending the outcome of their
cases and the rest on grounds of religious or other forms of persecution in
China.

Mr. Osborne said most of the Golden Venture refugees whose asylum cases are
still pending had cited fears of persecution under China's coercive
population-control policy.

Since 1979, China has limited each married couple to one child, but enforcement
through the 1980's varied from area to area. In recent years, however, Western
journalists have reported that China has sharply stepped up efforts to limit the
growth of its 1.2 billion population by forced abortions and sterilizations,
other involuntary birth-control methods and heavy fines for families that have
exceeded the quota.

The Reagan and Bush Administrations ordered favorable treatment for people
fleeing such treatment, but immigration lawyers say the Clinton Administration
has pulled back amid concern that leniency for refugees might encourage
smuggling of human cargo.

Similar Case in Virginia

The three released men were believed to be the first from the Golden Venture to
win asylum from an immigration judge on the grounds of China's
population-control policies.

Last January, a 28-year-old Chinese refugee, Guo Chundi, was granted asylum on
those grounds by a Federal judge in Alexandria, Va., in an appeal after losing
his case before an immigration judge and the Board of Immigration Appeals.

The Federal judge in that case, Thomas S. Ellis, held that involuntary
sterilization as practiced in China was "an egregious infringement on the
fundamental right to procreate" and that Mr. Guo's opposition to China's
one-child policy "constitutes political opinion."

The ruling was not binding on immigration judges or other courts, but was cited
in the cases before Judge Vomacka and was expected to hold potential
significance for the hundreds of cases in which Chinese are seeking asylum in
the United States, including the other passengers of the Golden Venture, which
struck a sandbar off the Rockaways after a four-month voyage from China.

At least 10 people died as the passengers leaped into the surf and struggled for
the shore, where most were taken into custody, beginning their protracted
detentions and legal fights for asylum in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Prepares to Begin Releasing 400 Haitians From Detention

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 12;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1042 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 6


Showing an unexpected preference for more lenient treatment of Haitian refugees
who reach shore here, the Immigration and Naturalization Service is preparing to
release a group of more than 400 Haitians who have been detained since the Coast
Guard rescued them from an overcrowded boat late last month.

The release promised today, plus another one promised soon, is the latest sign
that the Clinton Administration has begun modifying the Haitian and refugee
policy it inherited from the Bush Administration and left largely unchanged.
Immigration officials, however, say there has been no formal policy change.

Immigration officials said that on Saturday they would release 30 to 40 of the
Haitians from the Krome Detention Center, the main receiving point for refugees
and illegal immigrants in Florida, and that the rest would be freed gradually
during the next week. Though the refugees can remain free while they pursue
claims for political asylum, they are not being given the right to remain
permanently in the United States.

The officials also said that another large group of Haitians that reached South
Florida this week would be "paroled" from the detention center after processing
and medical examinations. On Tuesday, that group of 97 docked a sailboat at the
Ocean Reef Club, a luxury resort in Key Largo.

Policy Allows Wide Discretion

Steven Forester, a lawyer for the Haitian Refugee Center, an advocacy group
here, termed the releases "the right thing and the humane thing to do." He said
the Clinton Administration was "taking a lot of heat because of the stark
reality" that the United States had been "handing people over to a regime we
call butchers" and could be seeking to "placate the increasing opposition to
that policy."

Under the immigration service's policy, local officials are given wide
discretion to determine where, and for how long, to hold political asylum
claimants who have reached the United States. In the past, Haitians arriving
here have often been shipped off to detention centers in Texas and Louisiana or
transferred to county jails in central and northern Florida and Louisiana, and
some have been imprisoned a year pending resolution of their claims.

That punitive attitude has been taken toward Haitians, said the Rev. Thomas
Wenski, director of the Haitian Catholic Center here, because "those responsible
for not releasing them argued it would serve as a deterrent" to other would-be
refugees. But, he said, that logic does not hold in the case of the 411 Haitians
who have been held at Krome since April 22, because "they were in fact brought
here by the Coast Guard" as a humanitarian gesture.

In addition, the immigration service "knows that if they do send Haitians out of
state, they will be criticized for treating them discriminatorily," Mr. Forester
said.

A Matter of Overcrowding

Lemar C. Wooley, an immigration service spokesman here, said the recently
arrived Haitians were being released because of overcrowding in the Krome
center, not because of the rising controversy over the Clinton Administration's
policy toward Haiti and its treatment of refugees fleeing political strife in
that Caribbean nation. In the last month, critics of the Administration's Haiti
policy have staged hunger strikes and sit-ins outside the White House in
protest.

"There has been no official change in our policy," Mr. Wooley said. "All I can
note is that it is not unusual for us to do it this way."

Immigration service officials and others in the Clinton Administration said the
same thing last month, when the wooden freighter carrying the 411 Haitians was
allowed to drift into American territorial waters and its passengers rescued
because of what was described as the "extraordinary circumstances" of their
situation. Refugees aboard vessels interdicted on the high seas, however,
continue to be repatriated against their will to Haiti, where in many instances
they are arrested on their arrival.

Nevertheless, the promised release virtually guarantees that none of the
recently arrived refugees will be forced to return to Haiti at a time when
repression by the military Government there has reached new heights of violence.
No Haitian seeking political asylum here has been deported since October 1993,
and although immigration officials have declined to formally announce a
nondeportation policy, Walter Cadman, Miami District Director of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, has acknowledged that his district "has held such
removals in abeyance since last year."

Many Have Relatives in U.S.

Mr. Wooley said that all of the 411 people on board the vessel when it was
rescued on April 22 would eventually be released, except for nine crew members,
who he said could face criminal charges for smuggling their passengers. Of the
original group, 59 people, including pregnant women and small children traveling
on their own, have already been released for humanitarian reasons.

Immigration officials said that about 60 percent of the remaining Haitians who
will be released have relatives in Florida and are expected to remain in the
state. An additional 20 percent have family in other parts of the United States;
those with no relatives will be released to private refugee resettlement
agencies, which will be responsible for their care.

Among those scheduled to be released are 13 refugees who tested positive for
H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. That represents a marked contrast to the
treatment accorded nearly 200 Haitians infected with the virus who were
segregated at a special camp at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba until a
Federal judge intervened last year.

The reason for the difference in treatment is that the current group of
H.I.V.-positive Haitians "has already made entry in the United States," Mr.
Wooley said.

"We can't very well hold them or jail them just because they tested positive for
H.I.V.," he said, "and we can't summarily throw them out."

Gov. Lawton Chiles of Florida, who last month filed a suit against the Federal
Government seeking reimbursement for the state's expenses in harboring
immigrants, said he was not opposed to the release of detained Haitians, so long
as Washington agreed to foot the bill.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 16, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Blood, Bureaucracy and Grief Linked in Alien-Smuggling Case

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 975 words


For nearly seven months, a swab of dried blood from China has been sitting in
storage at the New York City Medical Examiner's office. It was sent by the
parents of a 38-year-old tractor driver from Fujian Province, Lin Guoshui, who
was last seen diving from the tramp steamer Golden Venture into the frigid
waters off Queens.

Some relatives and other passengers have long surmised the names of the six
unidentified men who died in a tragic swim from the ship, which ran aground last
June with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants aboard. But no one has been able
to positively identify them or to link a name with a body because of
decomposition and the paucity in China of conclusive medical records like dental
X-rays.

Mr. Lin's parents had hoped that genetic testing of their blood -- one of the
few definitive methods available -- could establish whether their son had, in
fact, died in a last desperate attempt to reach America, and that the body could
be exhumed and their son returned home to be buried.

But the blood samples remain untested, caught in bureaucratic gridlock between
the Medical Examiner's office and the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, both of which say they are not responsible for
conducting the tests. The tests, which cost about $200 a sample, generally take
seven days to complete.

"The Federal Government took jurisdiction over the case the day the ship went
aground," said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the Medical Examiner's office,
adding that the agency's main responsibility is determining cause of death.

Ms. Borakove said all other issues are under immigration service jurisdiction.

The immigration service, on the other hand, says its principal responsibility in
the case has been the criminal smuggling investigation, and that the Police
Department or Medical Examiner's office is in charge of identifying bodies.

"I don't know where the impression came that we're supposed to pick up the
sample," said Chip Bogdanski, a spokesman for the immigration service. "It just
is not within our jurisdiction."

The stalemate has left Mr. Lin's family frustrated.

"The I.N.S. won't do it and the Medical Examiner won't do it," said Lin
Tianshui, Mr. Lin's younger brother, who has lived in New York City for the last
decade. "How can we tell if my brother is dead? If it is him, at least we will
know he is dead. If it isn't, we can at least have some hope. But we need to
know."

Four other men who drowned that day were identified within a few months by
relatives. But what has made identification of the remaining six so difficult is
that the usual methods -- comparing fingerprints, medical records and dental
X-rays -- is virtually impossible. Mr. Lin's brother said that his family, as
with most others in China, could find no such records for his sibling.

He had hoped he would be able to identify his brother in several photographs the
Medical Examiner's office had taken of the six unidentified victims, but he was
still unsure. One man did resemble his brother but was heavier and had several
gold teeth, which he did not recall.

After all, Mr. Lin had not seen his brother in 10 years, and the one
distinguishing mark he remembered -- a growth on the left shoulder -- had not
been found during the autopsy.

Mr. Lin wanted to view the body. But after months of storage in a refrigerated
vault, it was too decomposed.

Hope in DNA Test

He called his parents, but they also did not know about the gold teeth.  They
had not seen their son in three years, since he had paid a smuggler $9,000 for
the trip to America and left behind Fujian Province, his wife and two children.

Without X-rays or fingerprints, the only way to confirm whether his brother's
body was among the six was through a DNA test on blood samples from his parents.

Mr. Lin had his parents send the samples, which have been at the Medical
Examiner's office ever since.

"They all told me that they could help," said Mr. Lin, who in July also provided
a sample of his own blood.

But Ms. Borakove said that in addition to not having authority, the Medical
Examiner's office did not have the money or expertise to do the testing.

The cost of the tests, according to a private laboratory, could range from $600
to $1,600, depending on how many samples from the six bodies would have to be
analyzed.

"Someone has got to make the request and pay for it," Ms. Borakove said.
"Everything costs money. What can I tell you?"

The Mayor's office said that it, too, could not pay for the tests. "The city
just can't do it," said Karen Crowe, a deputy press secretary for Mayor Rudolph
W. Giuliani. "It would kind of set a precedent, and we really can't afford
that."

The Federal Bureau of Investigation routinely provides free DNA testing for
local and state law-enforcement agencies. But it does so only in criminal cases
in which, typically, blood or semen found at a crime scene is compared with a
suspect's.

Plans for Exhumation

Mr. Lin, who was unaware until last week that nothing had been done with his
parents' blood samples, said he will probably have a private laboratory test
them.

The tests can be 99.9 percent accurate in confirming a blood relationship,
according to Lifecodes Corporation, a private genetic testing laboratory in
Stamford, Conn.

The Medical Examiner's office said it will hand over the blood samples from
China, along with those from the six bodies, to a private laboratory after
receiving permission from Mr. Lin's relatives.

If the tests identify his brother, Mr. Lin will request that the body be exhumed
from the communal grave in New Jersey, where all six victims were buried last
month, so it can be returned to China.

"If it can be done, of course, I will pay," said Mr. Lin, who works as a cook in
Manhattan. "Then maybe we will know."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 18, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Intercepts Taiwanese Ship

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 8;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 377 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 17


The Coast Guard found 121 people on a Taiwanese fishing boat that officials
suspected was trying to smuggle immigrants into the United States, the
authorities said today.

A boarding party on Saturday found 10 women, 101 men and 10 crewmen aboard the
168-foot Jin Yinn No. 1, said a statement by the 11th Coast Guard District
headquarters in Long Beach, Calif.

All the people aboard appeared to be healthy, the statement said. Coast Guard
officials would not provide the nationalities of those aboard, but a State
Department official said the passengers were believed to be Chinese.

The vessel, which was boarded about 890 miles southwest of San Diego, was
apparently being escorted by Coast Guard cutters to Mexican waters, as was done
in a similar case last summer, but the State Department would not give out the
destination.

A State Department duty officer in Washington, Julie Reside, said the passengers
were believed to be Chinese. "This incident has all the characteristics of an
alien-smuggling venture," she said.

The West Coast has experienced a flurry of efforts to land undocumented Chinese
from oceangoing vessels. There have also been incidents on the East Coast,
including a grounding off New York City in which eight immigrants died.

Repatriation From Mexico

In a case in July, the Coast Guard intercepted more than 650 undocumented
Chinese on three boats floating in international waters off Mexico. After 13
days in limbo, the boats were allowed to dock in Baja California. Two immigrants
were granted requests to seek asylum in the United States, but the rest were
deported from Mexico to China.

The United States has tried to keep smuggled aliens from landing in this country
because asylum seekers can stay for years while their requests are resolved.
Mexico, on the other hand, can immediately deport aliens.

The Jin Yinn was spotted on April 9 by a Coast Guard aircraft more than 200
miles southwest of San Diego. Coast Guard vessels trailed the ship for several
days to prevent it from entering American territorial waters. Coast Guard
officials said the vessel, which got as close as 290 miles to San Diego, had not
responded to requests to stop. Coast Guard personnel boarded it atabout 12:30
P.M. on Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 5, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Haitians Will Be Released

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;   Page 21;   Column 1;   National Desk

LENGTH: 84 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 4


All but 9 of the 411 Haitians brought to shore from a freighter intercepted off
the Florida coast will be released. The Immigration and Naturalization Service
will detain the nine on on charges of alien-smuggling, but the others should be
released in about a week, Lemar Wooley, a spokesman for the service, said.

The freighter was sighted by Coast Guard ships off Miami on April 21. President
Clinton allowed the group to land although Haitians intercepted at sea are
normally sent home.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 723 words



METRO DIGEST

PEDDLER'S BLANKET, IMMIGRANT'S DREAM

Immigrants selling everything from purses and bracelets to Wayne Newton
cassettes have created a makeshift marketplace directly in front of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service headquarters at 26 Federal Plaza in lower
Manhattan, even though most of them are here illegally. Speaking mother tongues
as diverse as Quechua, Wolof and Chinese, they have developed a camaraderie that
ignores the fact that many sell the same wares. Together they play cat-and-mouse
games with the police. And together they slough off public antagonism with the
firm belief that they are earning an honest living. A1.

LAW HOPES FOR LONGER, STRONGER ARMS

Shaken by the stranding of nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants aboard a tramp
steamer off New York last week, after a surge of similar smuggling attempts
along the coasts of Florida and California, Federal officials say they are
developing an arsenal of new counter-smuggling tactics: wiretaps, far-reaching
conspiracy statutes and the ability to seize money and property obtained through
smuggling. Penalties for smuggling immigrants would be stiffened, too, rising to
perhaps a maximum of 20 years in prison, up from five years now. Federal
officials say they are also urging that intelligence satellites and other
sophisticated monitoring devices that have been used in the fight against
international drug traffickers be brought to bear against immigrant smugglers.
A1.

NEW YORK CITY



DEBATES IN CREOLE, IN HOPE, WITH PASSION

Most days, Creole-speaking men and women gather in New York City's barbershops
and restaurants, on stoops and street corners, and engage in a favorite pastime
-- exchanging news from Haiti and debating oh-so-passionately the latest twist
in the island politics. And there is much to debate. Last week, Haiti's de facto
Prime Minister resigned. A Federal judge ordered that all Haitians held in a
detention camp at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba be released. The United
Nations imposed an oil embargo on Haiti as part of a campaign to restore the
deposed president, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. And closer to home, a
well-known Haitian businessman was killed in Brooklyn. B3.

MCCALL ASSAILS DINKINS BUDGET PLAN

The New York State Comptroller, H. Carl McCall, sharply criticized the $31.2
billion budget agreement reached over the weekend between Mayor David N. Dinkins
and leaders of the City Council, saying there were "serious questions about its
soundness." The criticism by Mr. McCall, who has been in the job just six weeks,
comes as a rebuke to the Mayor, not only because it is from the state's second
highest official and top fiscal monitor, but also because Mr. McCall is a
longtime friend and political ally of Mr. Dinkins. He served previously as
president of the New York City Board of Education, to which he was appointed by
the Mayor. Mr. McCall said the budget put together by the Mayor and Council
Speaker Vallone did little to provide long-range relief for the city's fiscal
woes. B3.

DESPERATE CABBY INVENTS DRIVE-IN 911

With a gun jammed against his neck and the threat of death if he did not come up
with more cash, a resourceful livery-cabdriver came up with a sure-fire way to
get help late Saturday night: he crashed his cab into two police cars parked
outside a station house in Queens. "There was no police outside at the time,"
the driver, Elioth Kersaint, explained yesterday. "Because nobody was there, I
had to crash the police cars." Mr. Kersaint, a 26-year-old Haitian immigrant who
has been driving a cab for three years, did a pretty good job of it, too, said
Officer Craig Meissner. B4.

REGION

G.O.P. BREAKS BUDGET TRUCE

An election-year budget truce between Gov. Jim Florio and the Legislature was
broken over the weekend, as Republican lawmakers outlined plans to earmark $150
million in the budget to soften an anticipated increase in the Federal gasoline
tax by the Clinton Administration, and Mr. Florio led Democrats in attacking the
proposal. The plan is part of a $15.4 billion budget that the Republicans, who
control both chambers of the Legislature, will introduce today, according to
Assembly Speaker Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian of Hackettstown. B4.

Metro Matters by Sam Roberts B3

Chronicle B6

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 1, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

13 INDICTED IN PLOT TO SMUGGLE ALIENS

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 518 words


Nearly a year after smugglers herded 137 Chinese immigrants off a shrimp boat
that docked in New Bedford, Mass., the Federal authorities in Boston announced
the indictment of 12 men and a woman yesterday and accused them of planning and
carrying out the operation.

Investigators described the case as the first of several prosecutions they
expect in the wake of a major strike against an Asian gang in Hong Kong and New
York last weekend.

Five suspected smugglers, all Vietnamese immigrants, were arrested on Monday in
Chicago, Wichita, Kan., and in the Boston area, and officials were seeking six
more suspects.

Two of the others indicted yesterday, Alan Tam and Cho Yee Yeung, were arrested
in New York on Saturday as part of a sweep by agents of the Federal Bureau of
Investigation that netted 19 members of the Fuk Ching gang. The gang typically
brought newly arrived Chinese immigrants ashore and held them captive until a
$30,000 fee for passage was paid, investigators say.

Leader Arrested in Hong Kong

The reputed leader of the gang, Guo Liang Chi, widely known by his nickname Ah
Kay, was arrested in a restaurant in Hong Kong on Friday and faces extradition
to the United States on a murder charge. Suspects in the New Bedford case were
identified months ago, an investigator said yesterday, but their arrests were
delayed until Mr. Guo was arrested.

"Now that Ah Kay is in the bag, these cases can kick into gear," said the
investigator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity.

In the New Bedford case, the Coast Guard found three smugglers on the ship only
hours after they had unloaded the immigrants and packed them in vans headed to
New York. Court papers that were released yesterday gave this account of the
operation:

The ship, the Luen Hing, was bought in Alabama by two of the suspected smugglers
for $90,000 in cash, delivered in a grocery bag stuffed with $1,000 packets, in
August 1992. They brought the ship north, docked in New Bedford in mid-September
and prepared for a rendezvous with a 400-foot Taiwanese ship carrying the
immigrants from Southeast Asia.

Loaded Into U-Haul Trucks

On Sept. 20, the suspected smugglers met the larger ship at sea and took the
immigrants aboard. After a 30-hour journey back to shore, the Luen Hing docked
again in New Bedford and was met by other smugglers. The immigrants were loaded
into three U-Haul trucks parked on the pier, and they departed immediately for
New York.

The Taiwanese ship was never found, investigators said. Nor were the 137
immigrants, who were probably released by the smugglers within a few weeks of
their arrival, investigators say; most Chinese immigrants borrow money from
relatives to pay the smugglers and work to pay off the debt.

A Federal prosecutor, Carole S. Schwartz, declined to discuss how the smuggling
suspects had been tracked down. The court papers say agents found three suspects
washing the ship only hours after their arrival in New Bedford. The three were
detained, questioned and later released, but the information they provided was
the start of the investigation.

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Is Helped by the Neediest Cases Fund

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 609 words


When Ana Marin first set foot on American soil, she could barely see her new
country. It was the middle of the night and she had just carried her infant
daughter and young son for miles through the hills that descend into the small
towns south of San Diego.

Along with dozens of other Mexicans and Central Americans that night in late
1981, she followed a "coyote," or immigrant smuggler, across the border. The
members of the crossing party, called "pollos," or chickens, by the smugglers,
were given no guarantee that the several hundred dollars they had each paid
would guarantee their safe passage.

"But I had to come, because there was no work where I lived," said Ms. Marin,
who hitchhiked to Tijuana after leaving her home in Guatemala. "You have nothing
if you are from where I lived."

For Ms. Marin, like thousands of other illegal immigrants, the United States has
not offered much more in the way of prosperity. In September 1982, she arrived
in Brooklyn and worked at a factory for $3 an hour, packing shirt buttons into
boxes.

At first, New York was an exciting and frightening place. "I thought it was very
nice," Ms. Marin said, in halting English. "But I was scared too because of the
tall buildings. In California, nothing was so tall."

Soon, the city's glittery image faded as Ms. Marin settled into a daily struggle
to survive. Even with the legal status she received as a result of the 1986
Immigration Reform and Control Act, she found she could not make enough to feed
her children and pay her rent.

For a time in 1990, after having to quit her job and flee her apartment because
her boyfriend was beating her, she lived in a private shelter in Queens. Her
unemployment checks were too small to pay a security deposit and first month's
rent on an apartment, so she moved out of the shelter into one small room in a
Bronx apartment building.

When she found out that she was pregnant again, however, the fragile hold she
had on her life fell apart. Ms. Marin's daughter, Jasmine, was born nearly three
months premature with underdeveloped lungs. Officials at the hospital told Ms.
Marin they would not release the baby to her if she could not find better
housing for her children.

In an effort to keep Jasmine out of foster care, hospital and city housing
officials referred Ms. Marin to the Community Service Society, one of seven
charities assisted by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

The fund is conducting its 82d annual appeal for donations to help the agencies
help single mothers like Ms. Marin and countless other people who live in the
city without housing, medical care or enough food. The donations sent in by
thousands from New York and around the world are given directly to the charities
because The Times pays all of the campaign's administrative costs.

As the result of aggressive advocacy by the Community Service Society to get Ms.
Marin a housing subsidy from the city's Child Welfare Administration, she is now
living in a three-bedroom clapboard house with a lawn in Far Rockaway, Queens.

Her struggle to pull herself out of poverty is far from over. She still lives on
public assistance. She also suffers from epileptic seizures, and recently,
burned her arm when she collapsed on the stove while cooking.

But despite everything -- despite even the fact that she could not afford a
Christmas tree -- she still manages a broad smile when she speaks of keeping her
family together.

"That is the thing that comes first," she said. "Everything else will come with
time."

Previously recorded . . . $2,045,426.77
Recorded yesterday . . . 54,091.95

Total . . .  $2,099,518.72

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Releases 4 of the Chinese Seized From Ship

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1088 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service yesterday released four of the nearly
300 Chinese aliens seized after a freighter ran aground off a Queens beach on
Sunday and said it would consider releasing others on a case-by-case basis
pending hearings on their claims for asylum.

The move represented a turnaround by the agency, which had said earlier this
week that it would keep all the aliens in detention as an example to other
would-be immigrants and their smugglers.

The four immigrants -- all young women under 18 years old -- were quietly
released from a detention center on Varick Street in Manhattan into the custody
of relatives who live in the New York metropolitan region.

Asked if the release reflected a change in policy, Thomas Durand, a spokesman
for the immigration agency, replied yesterday evening, "A comment on that can't
be forthcoming right now."

The release came as criticism mounted from immigrant-rights organizations and
other groups that immigration officials had taken highly unusual steps to block
their access to the passengers, most of whom have been moved to other detention
centers in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia.

Edward J. McElroy, the agency's deputy director in New York, angrily defended
the agency's handling of the immigrants at a meeting with reporters yesterday,
saying officials had treated them well and afforded them every opportunity to
request a lawyer. Mr. McElroy said that he had asked several immigrant-rights
groups to provide a list of their lawyers but that he had not received any
responses.

Stanley Mark of the Asian American Legal Defense and Education Fund, a nonprofit
group in Manhattan, said officials had blocked access to the immigrants ever
since they came ashore and that his group had repeatedly offered to provide
lawyers, only to be rebuffed by new obstacles.

"I think they're playing a game," Mr. Mark said, "throwing up new rules while
they moved these people out of the way."

The release of four of the immigrants came as new details emerged about the
long, harrowing odyssey of those aboard the Golden Venture, which ran aground on
a sandbar 200 yards off the Rockaway Peninsula after traveling more than halfway
around the world.

Mr. McElroy said yesterday that some of the 27 women among the ship's passengers
had been sexually assaulted during the voyage, apparently by the crew or
enforcers for the smugglers. He declined to elaborate on the attacks, but said
that investigators would continue to investigate and that charges could be
brought against those involved.

The journey of the Golden Venture began near Singapore in January, but for
nearly 200 of the immigrants, their hopeful voyage to America began much
earlier, when they boarded another decrepit ship last August from smaller ships
ferrying them from the mainland near Bangkok. It was on this first ship that the
sexual assaults took place, said a law-enforcement official who spoke on
condition on anonymity.

The first ship, called Najd II and registered in Saudi Arabia, picked up nearly
200 immigrants in the sea off Thailand in late August. From there, Najd II
steamed toward Mauritius, the island nation in the Indian Ocean. The Mauritian
Government denied it permission to dock on Sept. 4, but it remained offshore
until Sept. 22, when, after refueling, it left.

"This ship, the Golden Venture, came in somewhat down the road," said Wayne R.
McKenna, the coordinator of a Federal task force on immigrant smuggling in
Washington, said. "The Golden Venture is just the latest saga in a misadventure
that has been going on since at least September."

The Najd II then steamed to Mombasa, Kenya, arriving on Oct. 6, and government
officials in Kenya held the immigrants in a sort of loose detention from October
until early April. In November, the authorities in Kenya turned away another
ship evidently sent to pick up the stranded immigrants.

The Golden Venture arrived in Mombasa in April -- having already picked up 90
people in the seas off Thailand in February -- and carried the Chinese
passengers to America.

The authorities said yesterday that they now believe at least 285 passengers and
11 crew members were aboard the Golden Venture when it came ashore. Six died and
one remains hospitalized, said a spokesman, John Ingham. Five others disappeared
in the confusion after the grounding.

In that confusion, police officials said yesterday, the Fire Department, which
along with the Police Department is equipped for rescues on water, was not
immediately notified by the police when they received the first calls. Suzanne
Trazoff, Deputy Police Commissioner for Public Information, said last night that
Fire Department union leaders had complained about the delay.

Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly issued a statement yesterday saying that
communications procedures that required immediate notification of the Fire
Department had been violated. Ms. Trazoff said, "This is simply a matter of not
following protocol. It's not earth shattering. The Police Department has the
lead in water rescues."

Only 31 of the illegal immigrants remain at the detention center at 201 Varick
Street in Manhattan. The others have been moved to detention centers out of
state, including 110 in York County, Pa.; 60 in Lehigh County, Pa.; 45 in
Frederick County, Va., and 23 in Wicomico County, Md., according to immigration
officials and officials at the prisons.

The four women were released sometime yesterday afternoon, but Mr. Ingham and
Mr. Durand declined to discuss the details.

The release came only hours before Mr. McElroy, meeting with a group of
reporters to discuss the agency's handling of the case, said that immigration
officials would consider releasing the immigrants on their on recognizance while
they await hearings before Federal judges on the Government's decision to deny
them admission -- a process that could take as long as two years.

An immigration official, he said, would decide whether to release the immigrants
on a case-by-case basis -- a normal procedure for all detainees -- weighing such
questions as the probability they would appear at their exclusion hearings and
the merits of their asylum pleas.

Mr. McElroy said that by releasing a detainee awaiting exclusion, officials
risked the detainee not showing up, as often happens. Also, since immigrants in
most cases still owe money for the passage to America, he said that "by
releasing an alien from confinement, you facilitate the activities of the
smugglers."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

In Rural Jails, Haitians Suffer From Isolation

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1110 words

DATELINE: MARKSVILLE, La.


In the middle of an isolated Louisiana parish, 18 dejected Haitian refugees sit
in two dank, windowless jail cells, a thousand miles from the company of their
countrymen at a detention center in Florida, which Federal authorities say is
too crowded to house them.

Looking back on the uncertain charms of nearly six months in a rural Louisiana
jail -- watery grits and overcooked rice as part of typical prison fare, metal
bunks with thin pallets, and, for seven female refugees in the parish's jail for
women, unwelcome sexual advances from local inmates -- several Haitians yearned
in recent interviews for the Krome Avenue Detention Immigration Facility in
Miami, even though Haitians there have complained of beatings and harassment.
One even wants to go home.

Around Christmas last year, 20 of the 25 Haitians now in Marksville arrived on a
wooden fishing boat somewhere near West Palm Beach, where the authorities
quickly rounded them up. After a brief stay at the Krome center, they were sent
by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to this remote courthouse town,
170 miles from New Orleans in a sea of cotton and corn fields. The other five
Haitians entered the United States illegally on airplanes.

The immigration service, saying that Krome has no more room, has also placed 15
Haitians at a privately run jail in Laredo, Tex., and 88 at an I.N.S. detention
center in Port Isabel, Tex. A spokesman knew of no other Haitians regularly
housed outside Krome.

Several refugees here said they had actively supported the deposed President of
Haiti, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and had been pursued -- and in some
cases beaten -- by the police in Haiti for doing so. All are seeking political
asylum, their lawyers said.

Only one, 28-year-old Taduis Pierre, reported any previous time in jail; Mr.
Pierre said he had spent five days locked up in Haiti for his politics. But the
rest said imprisonment was a new experience, and a difficult one. "It's a thing
that's terrible to explain, the conditions," said Charles Joseph, 34, a farmer
in his native land.

Shackled and handcuffed, he was waiting for a parole hearing at the nearby
Federal prison in Oakdale, La. "The first thing, I've never seen food like that
-- crushed corn with water, no salt," Mr. Joseph said, his voice trailing off.
"We can't sleep at night. The iron doors are banging all the time."

If the Haitians gain parole, they will seek political asylum, their lawyers say.

Krome, Mr. Pierre said, is "a thousand times better." At least at Krome, "we
could see the sun two or three times a day," he said, but the Marksville jail
allows recreation only once a week.

When Sheriff Billy Belt of Avoyelles Parish was interviewed, he seemed uncertain
about how often the Haitians were allowed out. "I think we let them out three
days" a week, he said.

His jail is not far from the Federal prison in Oakdale, andfor the last seven
years, the Government has paid the parish to use its jails to house illegal
aliens, most of them Cubans with criminal records who arrived in the Mariel
boatlift. Besides the 18 Haitians, the dingy yellow cinderblock walls of the
men's jail now hold 66 other illegal aliens. The parish is paid $45 a day by the
Federal Government for each inmate; that means roughly $25 of profit on each
prisoner.

In a good year -- when the parish has housed hundreds of illegal aliens at a
time -- that adds $2 million to $3 million to its $8 million budget. As a
result, the sheriff has been able to provide such amenities as an ambulance
service for this poor parish in the heart of French-speaking Louisiana.

Mr. Belt has increased his detective force from two to seven, added a narcotics
officer and sent work crews into his parish's town and cemeteries. He has given
his deputies raises, though his own salary, set by the state Legislature, has
not been affected.

Mr. Belt has had a problem with inmates' complaints. In 1991, the Justice
Department investigated the parish's jail for men after Cuban detainees -- more
than 200 were there at the time -- complained of beatings by guards. Two guards
later pleaded guilty to Federal civil rights charges for an incident in which a
Cuban inmate was kicked, hit and pushed. Some Cubans were moved out of the
Avoyelles Parish jail, but Mr. Belt said at the time that the immigration
service would quickly replace them.

"He had some problems with Cubans," said Duke Austin, an immigration service
spokesman.

Russ Bergeron, an immigration service official in New Orleans, said that the
parish jail "is in compliance with the guidelines."

But that view is contested by lawyers in Miami who have filed suit against the
Justice Department to gain the Haitians' parole. The seven Haitian women, in
particular, are mixed in with local offenders, a violation of I.N.S. policy,
according to one of the lawyers, Ira Kurzban.

Rosemene Louis, a 27-year-old Haitian prisoner, said she had been solicited for
sex by other women inmates and was so fearful of being assaulted that she always
slept in her clothes. Another woman, Genita Florestal, 29, was approached by an
inmate "who wanted me to be her girlfriend. I said, 'You're a girl, and I am a
girl, and in my country we are not together.' "

Mr. Bergeron, the immigration service spokesman, said the issue of whether to
mix illegal aliens with other prisoners had arisen primarily in maximum-security
prisons, not in places like the Avoyelles Parish jail, where the other inmates
are considered less threatening. An immigration service official is stationed in
Avoyelles Parish to make sure that agency standards are met, Mr. Bergeron said.

His colleague, Mr. Austin, dismissed the complaints of the Haitians and their
lawyers. "I understand they are not where they want to be," he said. "But we're
not dealing with the individual desires of someone who has broken our laws and
entered the U.S. illegally. If you say the government will not place them
exactly where they want to be, the answer is: yes."

For Mr. Kurzban, the answer is to stop interning Haitians in remote areas, far
from their lawyers, and to let them go. "It is an irrational policy," he said,
"to detain people who pose no threat to society and whose only crime is they
seek freedom in America."

At least one Haitian refugee here has already given up on that idea. Sitting
disconsolately at a battered table in one of the cells, Jean, 24, who refused to
give a last name, saying he feared reprisals in Haiti, said he wanted to return
to his native land. In the Avoyelles Parish jail, he said, "I'm not in the
United States."

"We're prisoners," he continued. "We're hostages."


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 20 Haitian refugees have been held for nearly six months
in the men's jail in Marksville, La. They object to being a thousand miles from
the bulk of the Haitian refugees, who are being held at the Krome Detention
Immigration Facility in Miami. Federal immigration officials say Krome is full.
(James M. Blair for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New York City Rights Chief Investigating U.S. Immigration Centers

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 409 words


New York City's Human Rights Commissioner, Dennis deLeon, began an inquiry
yesterday into detention practices here of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which advocates for immigrants call arbitrary and
inhumane.

The commission will investigate assertions that genuine seekers of political
asylum are detained while others are released arbitrarily, that conditions at
detention centers are unacceptable, and that immigration agents subject some of
those arriving at Kennedy Airport to abuse.

Mr. deLeon sent a letter to William S. Slattery, the Immigration Service's
district director in New York, requesting statistical data on immigrants held,
written guidelines on detention policies and copies of any complaints of
misconduct or abuse.

The advocates say that late last week, Mr. Slattery had threatened retribution
if yesterday's news conference were held.

He said Mr. Slattery had told Elizabeth Aivars, director of the city's Office of
Immigrant Affairs, that he would reveal that a Dinkins administration official
had hired an illegal immigrant for household help. He asked, according to Mr.
deLeon, whether the Mayor could afford to be hurt politically by the disclosure.

Mr. Slattery said his remarks to Ms. Aivars had not been intended as a threat,
but were part of a general discussion about relations between the Immigration
Service and the Dinkins administration.

"I said if pushed they could not expect me to sit by and take hits," Mr.
Slattery said. "Our concerns with the administration were in terms of
employer-sanctions violations. When we take out 100 percent of the employees in
a given establishment, the city's position is we are disrupting the alien
community.

"People of notoriety are violating sanctions within the administration," he
continued, although he refused to specify to whom he referred. "There are people
associated with the administration, or at least one, who has hired illegal
aliens."

In response to the advocates' complaints about the detention centers, Mr.
Slattery released a memo written to him by Roseanne C. Sonchik, an assistant
district director. In the memo, Ms. Sonchik said that the biggest problem at the
centers was lack of space. She added that the advocates' concerns about
restricted access to counsel appeared to be "allegations activated solely by a
desire for convenience on the part of attorneys, rather than actual difficulties
with regard to access."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 10, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Refugees Blocked From Getting Legal Help

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1147 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which has pledged to send a tough
signal to Asian smugglers and would-be immigrants by fighting the entry of the
nearly 300 Chinese refugees who washed up on a Queens beach on Sunday, is
blocking legal help to them, immigrant advocate groups and lawyers say.

At the immigration service detention center at 201 Varick Street yesterday, a
sign on a bulletin board near the holding cells said that until further notice,
no lawyers would be permitted to visit the refugees. When a reporter asked to
take a closer look, a guard, who would not identify himself, snatched the sign
down.

In the past, the service has released illegal immigrants pending hearings as
much as two years in the future. But in the case of the refugees from the Golden
Venture, the authorities say they intend to keep them in custody until their
hearings.

Under Federal law, all immigration detainees have the right to counsel, but not
at Government expense. But from time to time, and particularly at moments of
crisis, the immigration service has denied detainees access to lawyers. The
issue was central in the case of Haitians at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in Cuba,
in which both a Federal judge and appeals court upheld the right last year, and
it has come up sporadically at the I.N.S. detention center in Miami.

'Sending a Strong Signal'

Lawyers hoping to help some of the refugees from the Golden Venture stood
outside the center until Tuesday night, barred from visiting clients by what
they described as unprecedented demands for paperwork. By Wednesday morning,
immigration officials told lawyers that the last of the refugees had been moved
to the Wicomico County Jail in Salisbury, Md. Immigration advocates said none of
the refugees had been allowed to see a lawyer.

"They are sending a strong signal to any immigrant groups, particularly Chinese,
that they will not be able to flesh out their cases, whether they be political
or not, in the most convenient form," said Humberto Dominguez, director of the
Catholic Migration Office's project on Haitian Refugees. "It seems they'll take
a hard-nosed attitude, without any consideration of humanitarian concerns."

Immigration officials in Washington denied that there had been a policy decision
to block legal counsel to the immigrants. Richard L. Kenney, an immigration
service spokesman, said the refugees had been afforded their rights, including
the right to counsel if they asked for it. "If they have the smarts to get here,
they have the smarts to ask for what they need," he said.

Visitors have also found it difficult to see the refugees, who arrived here in a
harrowing 120-day voyage marked by hunger, filth and, finally, mutiny. Six of
the immigrants died when the ship ran aground.

Complaints From Lawyers

A group of Chinese-American emergency medical technicians who interviewed the
newcomers on Sunday, for example, was blocked from delivering clothes and
toiletries to the refugees until Michael King, a paramedic, challenged them: "I
said, 'So now it's a racial thing.' "

Arthur C. Helton, director of the Refugees Project of the Lawyers Committee for
Human Rights in Manhattan, said his office had been in contact with lawyers
complaining that the immigration service had kept them from seeing the refugees.

"The treatment has been unduly harsh in terms of holding these individuals in a
virtually incommunicado fashion," he said. "Surely, access to counsel and family
members and other concerned persons could be promptly organized."

He added: "I think this might be part of the declared intent of the local I.N.S.
office to make an example of these hapless survivors of the Golden Venture. It's
wrong and potentially constitutes a denial of due process."

Thomas Durand, an immigration service spokesman in New York, said yesterday that
lawyers are normally admitted to the detention center when they have been
retained by clients. "Attorneys are permitted access when they've actually been
retained by the detainees," he said. "Once they have been retained, they are
free to visit. They are not permitted to go in in an attempt to solicit
business."

Additional Difficulties

The difficulties appear to reflect a developing attitude toward the newcomers as
criminals, immigrant advocates have said. They said that once moved, the
refugees will have great difficulty finding Chinese-speaking lawyers.

The problems also suggest some indecision in Washington, which had, under
President George Bush, looked favorably on Chinese asylum applications after
authorities crushed pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in June
1989. Following the crackdown, the Central Intelligence Agency helped spirit
Chinese dissidents out of the country.

On Sunday, when the refugees landed on the beach on the Rockaway Peninsula,
there was no talk of detaining them indefinitely. The regional director for the
I.N.S., William S. Slattery, said he expected most of the nearly 300 castaways
to be released pending hearings.

But by Monday, immigration officials announced that the refugees would be
detained, as part of a tough signal to be heard around the world.

"What we're doing here is the Administration wants a deterrent, and we intend to
detain all the Chinese aliens who are coming by ship," Mr. Slattery said on the
MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour Monday night. "We intend to prosecute the crew, and we
are going to seize that vessel. Those are some of the things we're doing to send
a message to organized crime that we're not going to tolerate this type of
activity."

According to immigration service figures, 15,000 refugees arrived last year at
Kennedy International Airport, 3,000 of whom were Chinese. The immigration
center at Kennedy has only 100 beds. Over the course of the year, 3 to 4 percent
of the those requesting asylum are detained.

In one case at the Varick Street center, a lawyer, Kristina Kartinski, spent all
day Tuesday trying to see a client who she was told would need medical
clearance. By Wednesday, clearance given, she was told the client had been moved
to Salisbury. "I said: 'Listen, I know a couple of males who are in there,' "
Ms. Kartinski said. " 'Is it possible to see them?' And she said, 'No, everyone
has gone.' " But last night, an immigration official barred a reporter from
speaking to a refugees, and admitted that all had not left the center.

Denny Chin, a lawyer for the Asian American Bar Association of New York, also
tried to visit refugees Tuesday night, but was told he would need a signed form
called a "notice of appearance," retaining him.

He said he had never had to produce one to enter the Varick Street center.
"Yesterday, they said we need to have names, and today we have names and they
change the rules," Mr. Chin said. "It seems like stonewalling, and I just can't
see any reason for it."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Report Cites Mistreatment of Immigrants

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1328 words


Immigrants detained by the Federal Government in Manhattan are held under
inadequate conditions, subject to arbitrary isolation in roach-infested cells
and denied effective access to legal help, says a report to be released today by
the American Civil Liberties Union.

The problems at the immigration detention center on Varick Street include
hostile guards, some inadequate medical care and management so inefficient that
some immigrants are kept for months, even years, after they volunteer to be
deported, the report said.

In its report, the A.C.L.U. also said that such conditions were typical of those
plaguing Immigration and Naturalization Service detention centers across the
country since the Government harshened its detention policy in the early 1980's
with the hope of deterring illegal immigration. The report comes at a time when
President Clinton has proposed expanding the I.N.S.'s role as warden, increasing
the agency's capacity to detain immigrants.

Long Detainment

"Immigrants awaiting administrative hearings are being detained in conditions
that would be unacceptable at prisons for criminal offenders," said Lucas
Guttentag, director of the A.C.L.U.'s Immigrants' Rights Project. "

The A.C.L.U. report, prepared from a two-year study of the Varick Street center,
provides insight into a world that is largely invisible to the public.

Although criminal inmates are entitled to lawyers, immigrants facing deportation
or exclusion are not. As a result, the majority of immigration detainees are not
represented by counsel, protecting the detention centers from the regular visits
and scrutiny that prisons endure.

In the last decade, however, I.N.S. detention have been subject to constant
litigation. In the most recent, a Federal class-action lawsuit was filed in July
against the immigration service alleging substandard conditions at detention
centers in the Los Angeles area. In the last few years, among other cases, the
I.N.S. was sued for an alleged pattern of beatings of detainees by guards in El
Centro, Calif., and for inhumane conditions of confinement and denial of access
to counsel in Chicago. The I.N.S. in New York was sued several times in the
1980s' over detention conditions.

Rosemary LaGuardia, a spokeswoman for the I.N.S. in New York, declined to
comment on the A.C.L.U. findings. She said the 24-hour notice given her to
answer questions was insufficient. Instead, she sent a copy of a year-old letter
from an I.N.S. official to the civil liberties group, a letter that does not
specifically address the group's complaints.

"The I.N.S. has strived to furnish the thousands of individuals we have been
required by law to detain with a level of safety, security, services and
amenities that follow ACA (American Correctional Association) guidelines," the
letter said. "We believe we have been successful in accomplishing that."

Opened in 1984 as a short-term detention center for stays of less than a week,
the Varick Street operation has turned into a "substandard" jail, said Judy
Rabinovitz, author of the A.C.L.U. report.

It keeps immigrants awaiting deportation hearings for an average of six months
and as long as several years, Ms. Rabinovitz said. Immigration detainees are
denied any fresh air or sunlight, in contrast to New York State criminal inmates
who, as required by law, get one hour of outdoor exercise at least every other
day. They are also forbidden to receive phone calls -- even from their lawyers
-- and permitted to make only collect calls, which makes it difficult to retain
a lawyer in the first place, the report said. Immigrants who wish to represent
themselves can consult only an inadequate law library with dated materials, the
report said.

History of Problems

The Varick Street center, which houses up to 250 detainees on the fourth floor
of a 12-story office building, has been plagued with problems from the start.

In its first year, about 15 guards were dismissed for physically and sexually
abusing detainees, according to I.N.S. records. In its second year, amid
allegations of drug trafficking and contraband smuggling by guards, Congress's
General Accounting Office investigated and found many of its officers to be
"unqualified and unsuited for the job," fostering a "highly dangerous and
volatile situation." In 1990, an internal immigration service memo acknowledged
that about a third of the detention officers were under investigation for either
personnel, criminal or civil rights violations, the A.C.L.U. report said.

The A.C.L.U. and its New York chapter undertook its study after Varick Street
detainees wrote the group complaining about what they called the lack of legal
representation and inhumane living conditions. The group gathered information
through a Freedom of Information Act request, through interviews with more than
50 detainees, and during a tour of the building accompanied by James E. Murphy,
a corrections expert who worked for the Federal Bureau of Prisons for more than
20 years.

During the tour, the I.N.S. did not allow the visitors to talk with detainees or
see their living quarters -- a limitation that Mr. Murphy said he had "never
experienced in 39 years of professional work in facilities including Alcatraz
and Marion," two maximum-security Federal penitentiaries.

Limited Access

Mr. Murphy praised the center's cleanliness on the day of the tour and the
equipment in its medical center, but noted that there was no way to judge
conditions at other times without access to maintenance and health records,
which was denied. Overall, he said the Varick Street operation had failed to
comply with "either the letter or the spirit of the standards" of the American
Correctional Association.

Poor management appears to plague the Varick Street detention center, according
to the A.C.L.U. report. When the General Accounting Office visited the center in
1991, immigration officials could not locate one-third of the detainees' case
files. The A.C.L.U. secured the release of one detainee who had proof, ignored
for 14 months, that she was a U.S. citizen.

And some immigrants languish at Varick Street for months, even years, after they
agree to be deported -- at an estimated daily cost to taxpayers of about $50 a
person.

One Chinese detainee cited in the report remained at the Varick Street Center
for two years after she requested to be deported, the A.C.L.U. said. An
Ethiopian man asked to be deported in 1991 after a year at Varick Street, but
remained there an additional two years, the report said.

A Growing Budget

The Immigration Service's budget for detention has mushroomed from $15.7 million
in 1981 to more than $149 million in 1991. Before the 1980's, only immigrants
believed a security risk or likely to abscond were held. Following the influx of
Cuban and Haitian boat people in the early 1980's, the Immigration Service began
detaining all illegal immigrants caught trying to enter the country without
permission. Some -- particularly political asylum applicants with especially
strong cases -- earn parole, but most remain imprisoned until they exhaust, or
waive, their right to appeal.

The detainees at Varick Street are primarily legal immigrants who have been
ordered deported after serving time in regular prisons for criminal offenses.
Some are married to U.S. citizens, have children born in this country, and face
deportation to a homeland they left as a child. Many spend longer at Varick
Street than they did in prison -- like the Ethiopian man cited in the report,
who served three years in immigration detention, 12 times longer than his three
months at Rikers Island for a third-degree drug sale conviction.

The A.C.L.U. report recommends a national review of immigration detention
policy, an upgrading of detention operations and the adoption of alternatives to
detention, like as supervised parole, that would assure that immigrants appeared
at hearings.

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK: On the Ship;
Survivors Tell of Voyage of Little Daylight, Little Food and Only Hope

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 761 words


The human cargo of the Golden Venture saw little daylight during their odyssey
around the globe. The Indonesian crew kept them in the hold -- with no clues to
the tortuous route the ship was taking to reach American shores. One passenger
counted the days by marking them off on a bulkhead.

A single toilet was the ship's only concession to hygiene, and most people
relieved themselves wherever they were. Without running water, passengers had no
way to clean themselves. The days rolled into one another in clouds of cigarette
smoke.

The passengers slept on bare decks and cots, getting by on one meal a day of
rice and vegetables.

"They ran out of vegetables toward the end," said Sgt. Douglas Lee of the New
York City Police Department's Major Cases Squad, who interviewed many of the
survivors. Then, there was only rice to eat.

By Way of Africa?

At times, the passengers must have doubted the Golden Venture would ever reach
American shores. The 150-foot freighter's green paint was streaked with rust
along the water line. Its name, painted in yellow, was fading. A week after it
left shore, the ship ran into a storm and almost capsized.

Even by the dismal standards of human-smuggling operations, Sergeant Lee said,
"This is a terrible boat."

More people joined the uncertain voyage in Thailand, and the ship stopped once
to refuel in what some passengers believed was Africa. One carried a coin from
Guyana, though he would not say how he had gotten it.

One man had a prized possession, an electronic game, that he kept playing,
hitting the buttons long after the batteries died.

But most were reluctant to give details of the conditions aboard the shp,
apparently fearing retaliation from the organized-crime operations that had
brought them here, and would exact two to three years of indentured servitude to
pay off the fare of thousands of dollars.

Tested for Tuberculosis

Nor would the refugees say whether any passengers had died en route, though
about 30 passengers of the nearly 300 remained unaccounted for yesterday. "They
were afraid of retaliation, very scared," said Officer David Kao of the 83d
Precinct.

Detective Ming Li of the Fifth Precinct said: "They've got too many street
enforcers on the boat. At this time, every evidence shows it's related to
Chinese organized crime."

Five passengers were tested for tuberculosis, and yesterday, the survivors and
those who spoke with them all wore baby-blue surgical masks. Some survivors wore
jeans, jackets and sneakers; others, barefoot and wrapped in blankets, drank
coffee from paper cups.

"The sanitary conditions on the boat were lousy," Detective Li said.

Police Officer Peter Moy, who interviewed many of the passengers yesterday,
promised them food if they would cooperate. Their reaction revealed how deep was
their deprivation, how long their voyage.

"Once I said, 'You'll get something to eat,' one man said, 'Hungry! Hungry!
Hungry!' " Officer Moy recalled. "Some other guy yelled, 'Marlboro! Marlboro!
Marlboro!' "

The passengers took few belongings, mostly just a bundle of clothes, for a
journey they could have ill-imagined would last so long and prove so perilous.
Most were young men in their 20's, though investigators counted 27 women, also
believed to be in the same age group. Sergeant Lee said the refugees, mostly
laborers, included a few engineers and other professionals.

As the ship neared the end of its long journey with a jolt on the sandbar, 200
yards from the shore, pandemonium erupted on board. The crew told everybody to
jump ship and run. In the mad scramble, one man punched another in the eye as he
jumped into the water.

'They Were So Afraid'

"You just run when we tell you to go," crew members said. Where they would run
was not known. "They made no plans for them to work or stay," Officer Kao said.
"They were so afraid. They said nothing."

But he added the refugees were relieved to reach American shores. "They all
said, 'I've been on that boat for so long.' "

One refugee who said his name was Ning, said, "I can't begin to tell you how
I've suffered." Another, a woman, cried hysterically because she had lost a
relative who had left China with her.

"Even though they had to do this, they said this is the best country in the
world," Sergeant Lee said. He doubted, though, that the refugees could have
imagined the working conditions that would have awaited: 12 to 14 hours a day,
seven days a week, to pay off their debts. "They work like indentured servants,"
he said, and shook his head.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the illegal Chinese immigrants rescued from the Golden
Venture in Far Rockaway waiting yesterday to be loaded onto buses to be
transported to detention centers. (Photograph by Edward Keating/The New York
Times)

Diagram: "Charting the Course of the Golden Venture"

Officials yesterday were still trying to piece together the route of the
freighter that ran aground with hundreds of Chinese refugees. Reports from
detectives and agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service who
interviewed passengers lay out what the officials believe may have been the
ship's route to the United States.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 11, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
Pull Up the Gangplank

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 716 words


By nightfall that day, American immigration officials had made passengers off
the Golden Venture feel right at home, as if they were still in China. They put
them in handcuffs, sent them to distant prisons and made sure they did not see
any lawyers.

That is U.S. policy: Make an example of the ship's hungry and sodden human cargo
for fleeing Communist China without the right papers and for still daring to
think of asylum. Show them what's what around here, so the wretched of the world
do not get any ideas America is still always open-armed to them.

Is President Clinton paying attention to what is being done in the name of his
Government? Do Congress members who fight for human rights in China believe in
those rights in America for Chinese who escape? Do Democrats really want mercies
permitted under President Bush to be ended under President Clinton?

In New York, once home port for freedom, political and journalistic commentators
who might have been expected to feel compassion stamped out any such foolish
idea. Their reaction to the story of the Chinese hell at sea was to tighten the
laws, close loopholes to liberty.

At least The New York Post came straight out, with a minimum of smarm. "Send
Them Back" was the headline on its editorial. Put them in planes and send them
right back; there was no word about hearings or lawyers in the newspaper now
owned by one of America's most successful recent immigrants.

I thought some journalists and politicians might remember that but for the grace
of a more merciful America, their own parents or grandparents would have been in
handcuffs the night they arrived, on the way back to the tyrannies they fled. In
those days, the people with the tired faces off the ships did not have to prove
they were legally refugees, just that they would pick up hammer, broom or needle
and set to work.

Perhaps some hard-nosed New Yorkers in the press and Congress might still be
able to conjure up a different ship off American shores.  Call it the St. Louis,
brothers and sisters. People it with Jews fleeing Germany. See if you can
remember the days in June 1939 when the U. S. turned it away. The St. Louis had
to sail back to Europe, where most of its passengers finally encountered the
solution -- the Final Solution.

What has happened to America that we could act so coldly, with so much approval,
so few protests, so hard of nose and heart?

Maybe some Americans become nervous when they see new waves of refugees. Perhaps
they do remember the stories about grandparents using every trick, legal or not
so very, to get into America; perhaps they would like to forget that, and the
St. Louis too. Perhaps they think those who still see them as outsiders might
forgive them for that offense if they are silent, or say keep these new people
out. They delude themselves.

More important, Americans worry about foreign refugees arriving en masse to take
their jobs. Nobody is asking for fully free immigration; I might if I thought it
had a prayer.

But before we dissolve in terror of arriving hordes, Washington should give us a
realistic study of how many jobs would be lost by how many refugees of what
kind, how that would balance off with the taxes, sweat and creativity those
people could bring to American reconstruction, and how many Americans are lining
up to take jobs washing dishes in Chinatown.

As for gangsters brutalizing the refugees right here in America, here's a
thought for police and elected officials around the country: Stop treating
Chinatowns as if they were sealed-off foreign territory. Get in there and help
free the refugees, by defeating the gangsters, as the law smashed Irish, Jewish,
Italian gangs.  That is called governing.

Perhaps not all the Chinese passengers may fit the exact legal definition of
refugee. Neither do all the people coming from Russia as refugees. But there is
no law against letting some of them in anyway, no constitutional barrier to
compassion, not for Russian Jews and not for the courageous Chinese stumbling
ashore in Queens.

If that idea is too much for the hardnoses to encompass, here's another. Drop
that motto about America taking in the huddled masses yearning to breathe free.
Chisel an honest one in stone: Pull up the gangplank, Jack; I'm aboard.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 13, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

On These Shores, Immigrants Find a New Wave of Hostility

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1181 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


TOLERANCE and intolerance toward immigration form a double helix in the American
genetic code. The United States, every civics textbook says, is a nation of
immigrants, a refuge to the tired, the poor and the tempest-tossed. But
nativism, the political reaction against immigration, is a hardy strain. It
flourishes in times of economic and political uncertainty. It is flourishing
now.

Last week's wreck of the Golden Venture, the smugglers' ship that spilled nearly
300 Chinese immigrants seeking political asylum onto New York's shores, and the
abuse of the asylum system by a key suspect in the World Trade Center bombing,
have spurred anti-immigration bills in Congress. They have raised fears that a
flood of foreigners threatens the political and economic security of the United
States. In particular, they have amplified calls for restrictions on the system
of political asylum.

"The sense of siege has been a very good vehicle for the anti-immigration
people," said Demetrios Papademetriou, director of immigration policy at the
Labor Department from 1988 to 1992. "Their message resonates around the country:
Immigration is out of control; our borders have fallen."

Immigration and Naturalization Service officers now use the language of the war
on drugs. They speak of smuggling cartels trafficking in illicit cargo. William
S. Slattery, director of the service's New York office, uses the language of war
itself. "Who's going to control the borders of the United States?" he said. "The
aliens have taken control."

The same message reverberates in Germany, where xenophobic firebombings and
Government decisions to restrict immigration have coincided, and in France,
whose new interior minister declared last week that the nation cannot absorb
more immigrants.

About one million foreigners will ask to immigrate to the United States this
year. Roughly 10 to 15 percent will request political asylum. No one knows how
many more will slip across the border and into the sprawl of New York or Los
Angeles. No one can measure the cost of health services or education for them.
The strain on cities is enormous. But it always was, from the first great waves
of immigration in the 1840's.

"All the overcrowded school districts today are immigrant school districts,"
said Frank Vardy, a demographer with New York's Department of City Planning.
"That's always been true, ever since immigration started. Today 42 percent of
all births in the city are to immigrant mothers. Those children are all American
citizens, every one."

In California, "the nativist arguments are economically driven," said Larry Eig,
a legislative attorney at the Library of Congress. "People will do anything they
can to cut down the costs of immigrants and immigration. They are culturally
scared as well as economically scared."

More than a few descendants of immigrants are saying enough is enough. "We
cannot accommodate even a fraction of the people who want to move here," said
Dan Stein, director of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.

The modern strain of nativism was cross-fertilized by three movements: zero
population growth, environmentalism and the English-first movement. Each of
their beliefs supported the fundamental nativist credo: this country cannot
assimilate more aliens.

If that is true, then a tenet of the Founding Fathers has collapsed.

"What Thomas Jefferson and others did was to create a civic culture which made
it possible for the United States to make Americans out of people from vastly
different cultural and religious backgrounds," said Lawrence Fuchs, acting
chairman of the Federal Commission on Immigration Reform. "No other country does
that."

But no other country has the same burden of immigrants, refugees and asylum
seekers. None has an agency quite like the I.N.S., simultaneously responsible
for throwing aliens out and allowing them in. None has quite the same tradition
of embracing and repelling alien cultures.

In 1795, George Washington asked God "to render this country more and more a
safe and propitious asylum for the unfortunate of other countries." Three years
later, in the Alien and Sedition Acts, Congress gave the Government
extraordinary powers to arrest and deport foreigners deemed un-American.

President Jefferson undid the Acts. "Shall we refuse to the unhappy fugitives
from distress that hospitality which the savages of the wilderness extended to
our fathers arriving in this land?" he asked.

In the 1850's, the nativist Know-Nothing Party elected governors, controlled
state legislatures, and commanded scores of seats in Congress with demands for
an end to immigration. Its members rioted against Irish and German newcomers,
saying they would never fit into the American mosaic.

Five years later, the Government sought immigrants for Civil War soldiers.
President Lincoln put this plank in the Republicans' 1864 platform: "Resolved,
That foreign immigration . . . to this nation, the asylum of the oppressed of
all nations, shall be fostered and encouraged by a liberal and just policy."

That resolution ebbed with world wars. After admitting more than 600,000
Europeans made homeless by World War II, Congress passed the McCarran Act,
excluding the ideologically incorrect and fixing quotas based on race and
nationality. Each crisis provoked an exception -- Cubans after Castro's rise,
Vietnamese after Saigon's fall. The doors of political asylum opened to those
fleeing communism and closed for those fleeing the armies of the right. The new
flood of illegal Chinese immigration began with the Bush Administration's
liberalization of asylum policy after the Tiananmen Square killings.

Washington, Jefferson and Lincoln all used the word "asylum" to mean an America
where anyone could come to make a better life, said Mr. Fuchs. Today asylum has
a more narrow definition: the refuge offered people with "a well-founded fear of
persecution" in their homelands.

"It's now so much easier to get to our doorstep on planes, on ships, on foot,"
said Mr. Fuchs. "Thousands of people show up and claim political asylum, and
because we have a system of due process, it's very hard to administer. How do
you ration the tickets to get in?"

Often left out of this life-and-death debate are those seeking asylum.

Min Sun Min is 37 years old and living in Brooklyn, two facts he regards as
minor miracles. He grew up in Burma and became a history teacher. The government
jailed and tortured him for his political beliefs. Released, he fled through the
jungle into Thailand and was granted political asylum by the United States in
April. He now works in a movie theater and studies advertising.

"My belief is that everyone has to be free," he said. "I love freedom here. The
many Chinese people who came here by boat and the Haitian refugees who came
here, their lives are the same situation. I know some Haitian refugees were sent
back and the Chinese were put in jail. My feeling is Haitian, Chinese, whatever,
people who have political reasons should have equal opportunity to save their
lives."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Illegal Chinese immigrants detained after they were rescued from
the Golden Venture off a New York City beach last week. (Edward Keating/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 3, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Flaws in Computer Check Helped Sheik Enter U.S.

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 901 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 2


In an effort to determine how Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman entered the United States,
the State Department ran the names of four high-profile terrorists through a
computer system meant to identify undesirable immigrants. All four passed.

The failure of the system was one of a series of deep and pervasive flaws in the
United States visa system uncovered by State Department investigators. They
concluded that it was these flaws, as well as bureaucratic bungling, that
allowed Mr. Abdel Rahman to enter the United States, according to Congressional
officials from both parties.

Mr. Abdel Rahman, who was detained today by immigration authorities in Brooklyn,
received four United States visas even after he was placed on the lookout list
in 1987.

But the classified review by the State Department's Inspector General found
failings that extended well beyond that individual case.

'A Cavalier Attitude'

Representative Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, said the report showed
that the State Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service
maintained "a cavalier attitude toward the serious business of keeping dangerous
foreign nationals" out of the United States.

A Democratic Congressional official who also provided an account of the findings
described "an incredibly inefficient visa system."

The State Department refused today to comment on the report, which its Inspector
General, Sherman M. Funk, presented to Congress in a closed hearing earlier this
week. But Representative Snowe said the inspector general's office had said she
could make the findings public.

Mr. Abdel Rahman, who was tried and acquitted in the 1981 assassination of
Egyptian President Anwar el- Sadat, entered the United States in 1990 despite
being on the State Department list of undesirables. He obtained his visa from
the United States Embassy in Khartoum, the Sudan, and State Department officials
had suggested that primitive conditions there may have contributed to his case's
being overlooked.

Improvements Not Enough

Although it did not directly contradict that account, the investigation found
evidence that the lookout system itself was inadequate, according to the
Congressional officials. They said its failure to recognize the names of the
four known terrorists was the most stunning evidence of those flaws.

In the test, Mr. Funk and his staff selected the names of four Egyptian
terrorists who had been convicted of crimes in Egyptian courts at least five
months before, the officials said. But they discovered that none of the names
had been added to the State Department watch list, which is maintained on a
computer data base.

Representative Snowe, who said Mr. Funk had been assured that the system had
recently been improved, described his testimony about it as "one of the most
revealing moments" of Wednesday's private briefing for two House subcommittees.

Mr. Funk, who serves as the State Department's own internal investigator, had
been asked to look into Mr. Abdel Rahman's entry into the country by
Representative Tom Lantos, Democrat of California, who chairs the House Foreign
Affairs subcommittee on international security.

Multiple Mistakes Cited

Mr. Lantos refused to comment tonight on the details of the report because it
was presented in a closed hearing. But he said that Mr. Abdel Rahman had been
able to enter the United States not only because of "serious, multiple mistakes"
but also because of "a systemic problem" with the nation's visa system.

There has been speculation that Mr. Abdel Rahman, who helped to recruit young
men to fight in the American-backed guerrilla war against the Afghan Government,
might have been assisted by the Central Intelligence Agency or other spying
agencies in obtaining his visa. But the Congressional officials said Mr. Funk's
investigation had confirmed his preliminary finding that no such assistance had
been given.

Instead, the inspector general identified a long list of mistakes made by the
State Department and the I.N.S. that made it possible for Mr. Abdel Rahman to
effectively establish residence in the United States. His report said the United
States Embassy in Khartoum had only verbally reprimanded a Sudanese employee who
apparently falsely certified in 1990 that Mr. Rahman's name did not appear on
the terrorist watch list.

An Employee's Error

In less-traveled capitals like Khartoum, the list is maintained not on computers
but on microfiche sent from Washington. Some State Department officials had
suggested earlier that the cumbersome nature of that system might have
contributed to any errors.

But Mr. Funk and other officials told the lawmakers in the closed hearing that
the Sudanese employee had apparently never checked whether Mr. Abdel Rahman was
on the list. A State Department consular official testified that the man was not
dismissed for his action because he was otherwise "an exemplary employee,"
Representative Snowe said tonight.

The investigation also disclosed that the State Department did not notify the
I.N.S. of its mistake until four months after discovering that it had
inappropriately issued the visa to Mr. Abdel Rahman, the Congressional officials
said. The report also called new attention to the fact that Mr. Abdel Rahman was
not placed on the lookout list until seven years after he was linked to the
terrorists who assassinated Mr. Sadat.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 16, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Some Chinese Held on Ships Off Mexico May Be Admitted to U.S.

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

DATELINE: ENSENADA, Mexico, July 15


In yet another twist to an already confounding story, American officials now say
that immigration officers aboard three ships crammed with smuggled Chinese off
Mexico are preparing to take to the United States those who ask for political
asylum.

But while the questioning continues, the plight of the 658 people aboard the
three filthy vessels will drag on at least one day, and perhaps several days,
longer.

State Department officials in Washington, speaking on the condition they not be
identified, said the Immigration and Naturalization Service officers who have
been interviewing the Chinese men and women for several days will continue the
questioning. Those who seem to have legitimate claims as political refugees will
be taken from the ships and transported to the United States while the rest will
be escorted or towed into Mexican territorial waters.

The officials said the questionnaires completed by the Chinese might be handled
by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees or by Immigration and
Naturalization staff members in the United States.

This latest move seems to solve several problems. When the Mexican Government
declared on Wednesday that it was willing, for humanitarian reasons, to accept
the three ships, the Under Secretary of Exterior Relations, Andres Rozental,
said Mexico would not allow the Chinese to be processed by United States or
United Nations officials on Mexican soil.

By reviewing the claims while the Chinese are in international waters, the
United States sidesteps the Mexicans' objections without seeming to deny the
Chinese their rights to seek asylum, a face-saving gesture that comes after
several days in which Mexico appeared to be taking a hard line on the Chinese.

This intervening step also has the effect of prolonging the anguish of the
Chinese, who are believed to have already spent over a month on two trawlers and
a fishing boat. The vessels are not equipped with toilets, showers or sleeping
quarters for anywhere near as many people as they hold.

The ships were held in international waters for more than a week as the United
States pressed Mexico for help. On Wednesday afternoon, Mexico finally agreed.

The director general of communications for Mexico's Interior Ministry, Jorge
Medina Viedas, said at a news briefing here today that he believed the Chinese
were listening to radios on board the ships and were aware of what was
happening.

Several Options Considered

Mr. Medina Viedas was one of a team of Mexican officials who came to this hazy
Pacific port today to prepare for the arrival and quick repatriation of the
undocumented Chinese.

Mr. Medina Viedas said that several options were being considered and that the
situation should be under control in two to three days. He said Mexico wanted to
be careful with its preparation "because we don't want to happen what happened
before."

He was referring to an incident that began last April 26 when just over 300
Chinese were smuggled into an inlet about 20 miles south of here. They were
detected by local authorities and brought here. They were kept inside the
municipal gymnasium for a week before being transferred to Mexicali, on the
United States border, where they were detained for two weeks.

During that time, under conditions still being investigated, about 200 escaped,
making a dash across the few miles of desert that separate Mexicali from the
United States About 100 were recaptured and sent back to China along with the
100 who had not escaped.

While trying to avoid such mistakes, the Mexicans were still clearly taking some
cues from American officials and waiting for more information before deciding
how to handle the delicate issue of just where and when the three Chinese ships
will leave the custody of the United States Coast Guard and come under Mexico's
jurisdiction.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Mexico showing location of Ensenada.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 9, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Clinton's Gay Rights Foray May Miscarry;
Landmark Asylum Case

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 188 words


To the Editor:

In a landmark decision this month, an immigration judge in San Francisco granted
political asylum to a Brazilian gay man. Citing numerous abuses by antigay death
squad gangs, who are often joined by the police in their massacres of gays, the
judge decided that homosexuality classifies as a social group, is immutable or a
characteristic an asylum applicant should not be compelled to change.

Thus, the judge ruled in essence that gay men and lesbians who fear persecution
in their home country should receive no more nor less protection than any other
person who is persecuted as part of a social group.

One hopes the judge's decision toward gay and lesbian foreigners who fear
persecution abroad will be followed by other immigration judges throughout the
country. One would also hope this rare, enlightened attitude toward foreign gays
and lesbians can be extended to gay and lesbian Americans fighting to lift the
military ban and who, like their foreign counterparts, only ask to be treated
equally.

TANIA M. ALVAREZ
San Francisco, July 29, 1993
The writer is an immigration lawyer.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 15, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agrees to Asylum Hearings to Settle Suit

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 361 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 14


Thousands of people who were denied asylum in the United States will get another
chance as part of a settlement in a five-year court battle.

Judge Terry J. Hatter of Federal District Court on Thursday approved the
settlement of a class-action lawsuit by immigrants who contended that the
Government used shoddy interviewing procedures in denying asylum to many Central
Americans and others. The immigrants were represented by the American Civil
Liberties Union.

Without admitting wrongdoing, the Government agreed to provide new interviews
with added safeguards to those who say they were improperly denied asylum from
1988 to 1990.

Lawyers for the plaintiffs say the settlement could affect as many as 38,000
people in Southern California alone, but the Immigration and Naturalization
Service said the figure was only a few thousand. Verne Jervis, a spokesman for
the agency, said many applicants already had gotten new hearings after the
asylum process was upgraded two years ago.

The case involved immigration panels formed in 1988 to handle a backlog of
asylum applicants from El Salvador and Guatemala. At the time, more than 95
percent of applicants from those two countries were being rejected.

The lawsuit asserted that the panels used poorly trained interviewers, including
clerks and criminal investigators, that some interviews lasted only minutes and
that applicants lacked interpreters and privacy.

'Trapdoor' to Deportation

"The system was a trapdoor to deportation," said Lucas Guttentag, who heads the
immigrants' rights project of the civil liberties group.

Under the settlement, some applicants will be entitled to new hearings under the
revised procedures of two years ago. They are also guaranteed privacy and the
right to bring an interpreter.

Another class-action lawsuit involving Central Americans was settled two years
ago. That case contended that immigrants from El Salvador and Guatemala were
discriminated against in asylum procedures for political reasons, because they
were fleeing countries with U.S.-backed governments.

A settlement in that case led to new applications for more than 200,000
immigrants.

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 17, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Request From Sheik For Custody Release Is Denied by Court

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 384 words


A Federal judge yesterday denied Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman's request to be
released from Federal custody, saying it was reasonable to regard the Egyptian
cleric as a "danger to the security of the United States."

In a 48-page decision, United States District Court Judge Charles L. Brieant in
White Plains, upheld earlier rulings by an immigration judge and the Board of
Immigration Appeals that Mr. Abdel Rahman could be forced to leave the country.

Barbara Nelson, one of Mr. Abdel Rahman's lawyers, said she is considering
whether to appeal the judge's opinion to the Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit.

If the appeals court agrees to hear the case, the process could delay action on
the 55-year-old Mr. Abdel Rahman for several months. But if the court refuses
the appeal, Federal authorities will likely begin extradition hearings for the
blind sheik. An Egyptian judge has issued an arrest order for Mr. Abdel Rahman,
saying he participated in an anti-government riot there in 1989.

The decision came as the judge in the case of the foiled plot to bomb four
targets in New York City, Michael B. Mukasey, ordered that key law-enforcement
officials in the case submit sworn statements detailing conversations they may
have had with the news media. The judge, disturbed by leaks of transcripts of
conversations involving the sheik, the suspects and a confidential informer,
Emad Salem, has said that only law-enforcement officials and defense lawyers can
see the documents. The judge indicated two weeks ago that he would make such a
ruling, which some legal experts say is an unusually aggressive tact.

Lawyers for two defendants in the foiled bomb plot meanwhile have charged that a
government informer in the case twice told one of their clients that he "bombed
the World Trade Center."

In a letter delivered to prosecutors yesterday morning, Ronald L. Kuby said that
the statements by the informer, Emad Salem, to his client, Siddig Ibrahim Siddig
Ali, were made sometime between the evening of June 23 and the early morning
hours of June 24, when Mr. Ali and several others were at a Queens garage.

Mr. Kuby asked that the government lawyers turn over tapes made by Mr. Salem on
those days, though he admitted yesterday that he does not know if such tapes
actually exist.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 27, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Asking for Asylum in U.S., Women Tread New Territory

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1597 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


One September night, the night of the 1991 military coup against President
Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti, a tall, slender young woman limped through the
streets of Port-au-Prince in a tattered nightgown. Then 16 years old, the woman,
W. Louis, had just been beaten and gang-raped in retaliation for her male
cousin's pro-Aristide activities.

Ms. Louis and her cousin fled Haiti six weeks later by boat, spent five months
at the American naval base in Guantanamo, Cuba, and were then admitted to the
United States to apply for political asylum. As a rape victim, she agreed to
speak only if she was identified by her last name.

Her cousin, a student leader threatened with death, is typical of the thousands
of men who seek asylum in this country each year. But Ms. Louis, as a woman and
a rape victim, is presenting a type of claim that until recently was seldom
heard. Now 18 and a high school student in Boston, she is one of a growing
number of women seeking asylum on the ground that they suffered different forms
of political persecution because of their sex.

Atmosphere Is Changing

Immigration law has tended to ignore the plight of refugee women. Lawyers and
immigration officers often follow their standard line of questioning about
politics, and the personal stories of the women never come out. Many judges and
immigration officers treat rape and battery -- even at the hands of government
officials -- as private acts. And many interpret a woman's transgression of
social mores, the refusal of an Iranian woman to cover her head, for instance,
as wardrobe choices rather than political expression.

But change is afoot. Even though many countries have grown less tolerant of
refugees in general, international sympathy has grown for the traumas of women
fleeing persecution. The rapes of Muslim and Croat women in Bosnia have been
portrayed worldwide as war crimes, not just sexual violence. The United Nations
High Commission on Refugees has issued guidelines for evaluating women's
applications for asylum, and Canada's Immigration and Refugee Board has started
granting asylum to women persecuted because of their sex.

In the United States, advocates for immigrants are using scores of test cases,
involving rape, domestic violence and defiance of state restrictions on women's
activities, to try to expand the grounds for granting asylum.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is also studying Canada's new policy
to see if it will revamp its own handling of such cases, said Gregg A. Beyer,
director of asylum. Although some critics of the asylum system worry about
opening the door to yet another category of applicants, Mr. Beyer said there
would be no blanket admissions policies.

'It's Case by Case'

"There's always a fear that anything, even a new nationality or a new category
like women or gay people, will open up the floodgates," he said. "There's a
perception that if a woman from a Muslim country got asylum, many might come
thinking they're now all eligible. But they wouldn't be. It's case by case,
individual by individual."

The test cases brought by advocates for immigrants vary from that of a Honduran
woman in New York City whom Honduran police repeatedly refused to protect from
her severely abusive husband to that of an Iranian feminist in Boston, an artist
who was forced underground in the early 1980's for painting women in
nontraditional roles.

"It was a very hard period of my life," the Iranian artist, now an art teacher
at a day-care center, said in an interview. "First, the authorities insisted
that we must cover our heads and bodies to protect us from men, as if we were
living in a jungle and the tigers were always ready to pounce. And then all my
friends were executed."

Different Fates in Court

The women's experiences in the courtroom vary, too. In San Francisco, an
Salvadoran woman whose husband was an informer for the army asked for refuge in
this country because she had been repeatedly gang-raped by guerrillas. During
three hours of halting testimony, as she kept her face covered with her hands,
the immigration judge clipped his fingernails, said Jonathan Melrod, an
immigration lawyer who represented the woman. But in the end, her testimony was
so compelling that the judge granted asylum.

Another Salvadoran, Sofia Campos-Guardado, was not as lucky. Ms.
Campos-Guardado, whose male relatives were active in an agricultural
cooperative, had been bound, gagged and forced to watch as guerrillas hacked the
flesh from her cousins' bodies and shot them to death, according to court
documents. Then she was raped while her attackers shouted political slogans and
repeatedly threatened her if she did not keep silent.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, found
that there was no evidence that Ms. Campos-Guardado was raped because of her
political opinions and decided that her rapists' threats were entirely personal.

"There is no question that the I.N.S. and judges tend to ascribe personal
motivations to persecutors when the harm is sexual," said Deborah Anker, a
lecturer at Harvard Law School who is an expert on asylum. "In the same way, it
is rare to have feminism recognized as a political opinion."

Legal Framework in Question

By law, political asylum is granted to an individual with a well-founded fear of
persecution because of one of these five grounds: race, religion, nationality,
membership in a particular social group or holding a political opinion.

Some asylum experts say that most women's cases can be argued under the current
legal framework -- that Ms. Louis, for instance, could be seen as belonging to a
specific social group (Haitian women who suffer sexual retaliation for the
political activities of their male relatives) or as possessing, by imputation,
the political opinion of her cousin.

"The current refugee definition can work," said Nancy Kelly, a lawyer in
Massachusetts with the Women's Refugee Project at Cambridge and Somerville Legal
Services, "but if and only if we rethink the way women's cases are handled,
taking a new look at the political nature of many seemingly private acts and
understanding that many countries simply fail to protect their women."

Still, many lawyers push for a more radical approach by adding persecution
because of sex as a sixth ground for asylum.

"As it stands now," said Robert Jobe, a San Francisco immigration lawyer,
"unless the rapist said to the woman, 'I'm raping you because you spoke out
against the government,' it is unlikely a judge will find that she has been
persecuted on account of her political opinion."

Although immigration officials do not keep such statistics, it is believed that
only a fraction of political asylum cases involve women. Very few women flee
their homelands alone, and most women who leave with male family members end up
deriving asylum through the men's applications. Until recently, few lawyers or
immigration officials took the time to elicit stories from women. And many women
refugees who have been sexually attacked are reluctant to tell even their family
members, much less a male lawyer, immigration official or judge.

In Boston, a 27-year-old Haitian woman who spoke only on condition that she be
not be identified, could not bring herself to tell a male immigration judge that
she had been arrested, beaten and finally raped. She had sworn to this story in
her written application for asylum, but standing before the judge in his robes,
she froze and denied she had ever been attacked.

"I felt ashamed," the woman said in an interview, unable to look a female
reporter in the eye. "I didn't think the man would consider what happened to me
to be so bad."

Because of experiences like that Haitian woman's, many immigration lawyers say
the Clinton Administration's new plan for the expedited exclusion of asylum
seekers at ports of entry will discriminate against women. In a formal
memorandum, Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, has protested
what she sees as the discriminatory nature of the plan, which provides for the
speedy deportation of asylum seekers after an on-the-spot hearing and quick
appeal, if requested.

'It's Just Not Possible'

Hope Frye, president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association, said,
"It's just not possible for a woman to tell a stranger in uniform at a foreign
airport the grisly details of how she was gang-raped by people in uniform in her
own country."

The asylum test cases involving battered women are particularly challenging, and
that of a 57-year-old Iranian woman here is especially haunting.  The woman, who
refused to be identified by name, lived in a town dominated by her extended
family, whom she described as descendants of Muslim royalty. Forced to marry her
first cousin, she was also forced to try repeatedly to bear him children,
although doctors warned that generations of in-breeding would produce genetic
casualties. Indeed, after eight pregnancies, the woman lost five children with
major birth defects, bore two blind sons and one healthy one.

The woman considered herself a prisoner in her home, subjected to rape after
rape by her husband and unable to complain to anyone in her family. When a
cousin complained about an arranged marriage and tried to date a man of her own
choice, the family arranged her murder, the woman said.

With her two blind sons, the woman fled Iran to secure them medical treatment at
Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. She said she had given up on her own
life.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: September 28, 1993, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

A front-page article yesterday about women who seek political asylum in the
United States misattributed an anecdote about a judge's clipping his fingernails
while hearing testimony about a gang rape. It was Robert Jobe, a San Francisco
immigration lawyer, who described the incident, not his partner Jonathan Melrod.


GRAPHIC: Photos: "The current refugee definition can work," said Nancy Kelly, a
lawyer with the Women's Refugee Project in Cambridge, Mass., "but if and only if
we rethink the way women's cases are handled." (Sarah Putnam for The New York
Times)(pg. A13); A 27-year-old woman, who had been raped in Haiti, is seeking
political asylum. (Sarah Putnam for The New York Times)(pg. A1)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 24, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

4 Cubans Seeking Asylum

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 215 words

DATELINE: PONCE, P.R., Nov. 23


A United States immigration official confirmed today that four Cuban athletes
here to participate in the Central American and Caribbean Games have sought
political asylum in the United States.

In addition, Ana Zulrik Santiago Diaz, a member of the shooting team, was
reported missing and removed from the list of competitors for her events on
Monday. And Secundio Amaya, 50, a Communist Party member and a Cuban Sports
Ministry photographer, had not been seen since Monday night.

Robert Bowles, an assistant district director for the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service, said in San Juan that three requests for asylum were
received late Monday. When asked, he confirmed that two of them were the
father-and-son members of the archery team, Alfonso Donate and Alfonso Donate
Sotelo. Earlier, the immigration service confirmed that Roger Ramirez, a diver,
had sought asylum. He also confirmed that a fourth athlete, whom he would not
identify, had requested asylum as well.

Bowles acknowledged there has been speculation about the possibility of
widespread defections from the Cuban delegation. The 881-member delegation to
the games includes 575 athletes. Under a 1966 Congressional act, nearly all
Cubans who request asylum receive United States residency.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 26, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. TO ENCOURAGE LEGAL IMMIGRANTS TO GET CITIZENSHIP

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1518 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Nov. 25


The Clinton Administration says it will actively encourage legal immigrants to
become United States citizens, a new policy intended to counter hostility to
immigrants.

The effort could enfranchise millions of people who have lived in this country
for years without seeking citizenship. When immigrants become citizens, they
gain the right to vote, to hold public office and to serve on juries.

Becoming citizens would also make it easier for them to get jobs as police
officers or public school teachers because such jobs are reserved for citizens
in some states, and it would make it easier for them to bring in certain close
relatives.

10 Million Could Be Eligible

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 10 million legal
permanent residents who are not citizens live in the United States. By the turn
of the century, this group may constitute one-fourth of the population in some
cities, including New York, Los Angeles and Miami.

Until now, the Federal Government has not promoted naturalization, and the
complexity of the process has probably discouraged many immigrants from applying
for citizenship. In addition, many immigrants express ambivalent feelings,
wishing to become part of United States society while also retaining roots in
their homelands.

Doris M. Meissner, the new Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said
in an interview this week that the new policy was intended to defuse tensions
over immigration.

'I Am Very Concerned'

"We have to do as much as we can to promote naturalization," said Mrs.
Meissner, who took office on Oct. 18. "I am very concerned about the
anti-immigrant feelings we see in various parts of the country and in Congress.
Naturalization helps counteract anti-immigrant attitudes. When people become
citizens, they accept our values, and most Americans are reassured."

The new policy is also inspired by the fact that three million immigrants who
gained legal status under the amnesty provisions of a 1986 law are just becoming
eligible for citizenship.

Sam Bernsen, a lawyer who worked at the Immigration and Naturalization Service
for more than 35 years, said the new policy had profound implications. "For the
first time," he said, "the Government will affirmatively go out and encourage
aliens to become citizens. They would then have a voice in our political system,
with voting rights, and could run for public office."

In the coming year, Mrs. Meissner said, the Government will work with private
groups to publicize the advantages of citizenship and to expedite the handling
of applications. In addition, she said, without lowering standards for
citizenship, she intends to simplify naturalization procedures and will seek
additional money and employees to review applications.

Hispanic and Asian American groups welcomed the new emphasis on naturalization.
But some lawyers, noting that the immigration service is already deluged with
work, say they doubt that it can efficiently handle hundreds of thousands of new
applications.

Large numbers of immigrants, especially those from Mexico, remain lawful
permanent residents for many years without seeking United States citizenship. In
part, that is because permanent resident aliens have many rights of citizens,
including the right to work and to obtain some Government benefits.

Mexicans, for example, tend to retain close ties to their homeland after
becoming permanent residents of this country. Many believe that they would
jeopardize the right to own property in Mexico if they became United States
citizens, but the Mexican Embassy here says that fear is unfounded.

'Naturalization Builds Bridges'

Mrs. Meissner said: "We have never been very aggressive in encouraging resident
aliens to naturalize. That has to change. Naturalization builds bridges between
new immigrant groups and the existing society, much as labor unions, political
parties and public schools have done in the past."

Charles Kamasaki, vice president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic
advocacy group, said it would be "an enormous change" if the Government actively
promoted naturalization.

"The Government claims to have a neutral policy toward citizenship," he said.
"But because of all the obstacles in place, it is, in effect, discouraging
citizenship. Only the most resourceful, highly motivated people make it through
the process."

In general, lawful permanent residents may apply for citizenship after residing
in the United States for five years. They must show an ability to read, write
and speak the English language and a knowledge of the history and government of
the United States.

Federal officials say the Government can handle more applications if it revises
the process of naturalization, so private nonprofit groups do some work now done
by the Government.

In encouraging naturalization, Mrs. Meissner said, "We don't want to sacrifice
or neglect other functions."

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said the agency now
interviews all applicants to verify the information they submit in writing. Mrs.
Meissner said she hoped to make such interviews an option rather than a
requirement for the Government.

Plans to Cut Waiting Time

"A school could certify that a person can speak English," she said. "You don't
necessarily need a Government interview to do that."

The I.N.S. has 17,500 employees and a budget of $1.2 billion this year. Fewer
than 10 percent of the employees work on naturalization, and less than 10
percent of the money is used for that purpose.

At present, a person applying for citizenship in New York City must wait more
than seven months for an interview. In San Francisco, the wait is 10 months; in
Miami, 11 months.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service, estimated that there are
10 million lawful permanent residents in this country. The Government, he said,
has no precise count because it is not necessarily informed when immigrants die
or leave the country.

In 1992, he said, 240,252 immigrants became citizens, down from 308,058
naturalized in 1991. More immigrants come to the United States from Mexico than
from any other country. But only 12,880 of the people naturalized last year were
Mexicans. The largest numbers were from the Philippines (28,579), Vietnam
(18,357) and China (13,488).

Rick Swartz, a Washington lawyer who advises immigrant and ethnic groups, said:
"It's extremely important to be promoting naturalization. If we fail to do it,
there is an increasing danger of native-born Americans' saying these immigrants
are not loyal to the United States. And look to the future. By the year 2000,
more than one-fourth of the population of Los Angeles, New York, Miami, San
Francisco, Houston and Chicago may be disfranchised because they are not
citizens."

In Congress and in states like California, hard hit by recession, there have
been many proposals to curb immigration, to limit asylum and to restrict
immigrants' eligibility for Government benefits. Liberal Democrats have joined
Republicans in urging use of National Guard troops to help patrol the border
with Mexico. Gov. Pete Wilson of California has called for a constitutional
amendment denying citizenship to children born in the United States to illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Swartz is working with immigrant groups across the country to organize a
nonpartisan campaign that will help immigrants obtain citizenship. "This process
offers a tremendous potential for renewal of democratic values, a gold mine for
either political party that chooses to pursue it," he said.

Demetrios G. Papademetriou, director of the immigration policy program at the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, said it was good for the Government
to encourage naturalization because people who go through the process "develop a
true stake in the country, in its economic and social progress."

But he said: "A lot of immigrants become citizens for reasons other than full
commitment to their new country. They do it because they can get additional
immigration benefits."

Citizens can easily bring in immediate relatives, including spouses and
unmarried children under 21. Citizens at least 21 years old can also bring in
their parents. There is neither a waiting period nor a numerical limit on visas
for such immigrants. By contrast, the spouses and children of permanent resident
aliens usually have to wait several years for permission to immigrate; their
parents get no special preference.

'A Breath of Fresh Air'

E. Richard Larson, legal director of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, praised the new policy, saying, "We totally agree that
naturalization should be encouraged."

"Prior commissioners contributed to tensions over immigration," he said. "Doris
Meissner is a breath of fresh air."

Harry P. Pachon, president of the Tomas Rivera Center in Claremont, Calif., a
research institute that focuses on immigration policy, said, "For the last
decade, we had immigration commissioners who gave little emphasis to the middle
initial of I.N.S."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 17, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Plans to Delay Work Permits For Immigrants Who Seek Asylum

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 1087 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 16


Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service say they plan to charge
people seeking political asylum a $130 fee and to delay issuing work permits for
150 days to try to to deter new applicants and cut the backlog of asylum claims.

The fees would make the United States the only nation in the world to charge an
application fee for people who contend that they are fleeing persecution in
their homelands, according to the United Nations High Commissioner on Refugees.

The Deputy Immigration Commissioner, Chris Sale, who described the proposed
changes, said current asylum procedures were "encouraging people to abuse the
system."

Existing procedures generally make it easy for immigrants to apply for asylum
but place them in a legal no-man's-land awaiting hearings. Ms. Sale said the
long delays in the system were also "damaging the bona fide candidates" for
protection under the asylum laws.

Ms. Sale said that a work permit was a prize sought by fraudulent asylum-seekers
and that delaying the permit would deter the fraud. Immigration officials say
they expect word of the fees and the work-permit delays to go out on a global
grapevine, slowing the flood of new asylum applicants.

Without a work permit, asylum applicants who wish to live within the law must
depend on a fragile network of church groups, family or friends, since they are
not entitled to welfare or any other Government assistance.

The filing fees would help pay for a proposed doubling of the corps of 150
asylum officers. The fledgling asylum corps now faces a backlog of 364,000
asylum applications. The backlog has been growing at a rate of 10,000 a month.
The immigration service said that last year 18,110 claims were denied and 5,105
were approved.

Advocates of immigrants' rights applauded the agency's effort to increase the
asylum corps and ease the officers' administrative burdens. But they said filing
fees and restrictions on work permits were the wrong ways to combat fraud and
would unfairly penalize tens of thousands of legitimate asylum-seekers.

"To wait six months for a work permit -- how will they survive?" asked Jeanne
Butterfield of the American Immigration Lawyers Association.

Critics who seek a far more restrictive asylum policy derided the proposed
measures as mere tinkering.

Right to Political Asylum

"So long as you permit anyone to invoke the asylum process simply by getting to
the United States, any administrative change is doomed to failure," said Dan
Stein of the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which supports
legislation pending in Congress that would summarily reject most asylum
applicants now arriving at airports or border stations.

The right to political asylum is guaranteed under international law and treaties
signed by the United States. Under Federal law, political asylum can be granted
to an alien who can prove that he or she has been the victim of persecution or
has "a well-founded fear" of persecution on the basis of race, religion,
political belief or membership in a particular organization.

Last year, 150,386 people from 154 nations sought political asylum in the United
States. Most came from places like Guatemala, El Salvador, the former
Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union, China, Cuba, Haiti and Liberia, nations not
noted for their respect for human rights.

Tens of thousands of the applicants were really fleeing persecution, but tens of
thousands clearly sought to abuse the asylum system, immigration officials say.

Under the law, most were allowed into the United States immediately, physically
on free soil, but legally without a country. By invoking a claim of asylum, they
were generally free to enter; most could receive a work permit within 90 days,
immigration officials and lawyers say. But because of the backup in the asylum
system, more than half had no foreseeable hope that their claims would be
resolved.

Cases of Fraud

Many applicants could use their work permits to buy phony driver's licenses,
invent identities and disappear into the underground economy. Those caught at an
airport with phony travel documents and no credible claim for asylum are
generally detained and deported; in such cases the airline they flew in on often
bore the cost of their return.

The American asylum system was altered three years ago to do away with cold-war
procedures that granted protection almost exclusively to those fleeing
Communism. The backlog of asylum applications that the Clinton Administration
inherited included tens of thousands of people whom Federal judges found had
been denied due process in the 1980's.

But the new system received little money from Congress. The asylum corps, far
smaller than its counterparts in Australia, Britain, France, Germany, Holland,
Norway, Sweden or Switzerland, survives on fees raised by other immigration
programs.

Its top officers say it cannot cope with the growing numbers of legitimate and
illegitimate asylum-seekers; nor can it readily distinguish the victims of
political terror from the potential terrorist.

"The system in the past year and a half has just collapsed under its own
weight," said Carol Wolchok, director of the American Bar Association's center
for immigration law. She said the immigration service needed millions of dollars
to increase, train and equip the asylum corps.

A working corps would insure a quick, full hearing for all asylum applicants,
she said, adding that this would be both a deterrent to fraud and the fairest
way to deal with genuine asylum applicants, she said.

"Once it's in place, there will be a dramatic drop in false claims," she said.
"The system would be used by the people it's intended for."

The new filing fees and work-permit strictures proposed by the immigration
service are to be published soon in the Federal Register, the digest of proposed
Government rules, and could take effect as early as Oct. 1. It is unclear under
what procedures the agency might waive a filing fee or grant a work permit more
speedily.

If Ms. Sale is correct, the new rules would deter thousands of fraudulent asylum
seekers and lighten asylum officers' burdens. But if proponents of stricter laws
are right, they will do little to control false claims. And if immigrants'
advocates are correct, they could force asylum applicants, who cannot receive
welfare or other Government assistance, to work illegally or go hungry while
they wait for an overburdened system to notify them that their day for a hearing
has arrived.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Feb. 13-19: Immigration Woes;
Your Tired, Your Poor, Your $130 Application Fee

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 211 words


The United States is about to become the only nation in the world to charge an
application fee to people who say they are fleeing political terror.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service disclosed last week that beginning
Oct. 1 it will impose a $130 fee on immigrants seeking political asylum. The
charge is intended both as a deterrent and a fund-raiser for the overwhelmed
corps of officers weighing asylum applications. Last year, 150,386 people sought
political asylum in the United States. Only 150 asylum officers exist to hear
their claims; 364,000 applicants are waiting in line.

Under the law, a plea for political asylum must be based on "a well-founded fear
of persecution." Some applicants are frauds, but the swamped corps has little
opportunity to determine who is a fake and who is genuinely fearful. Most are
allowed into the United States indefinitely pending a hearing. "The system in
the past year and a half has just collapsed under its own weight," said Carol
Wolchok, director of the American Bar Association's center for immigration law.

But immigrant advocates said the fee and new restrictions on work permits were
the wrong ways to combat fraud and would unfairly penalize many legitimate
asylum-seekers.   TIM WEINER

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 8, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Shooting Suspect Slipped I.N.S. Procedural Net

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 2;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1007 words


Rashid Baz, the man accused of killing a Hasidic student and wounding three
others on the Brooklyn Bridge last week, lost his legal immigration status a
year ago, Federal immigration officials said yesterday, but the immigration
service apparently took no action against him.

His legal status was terminated when he failed to file an application to show
that his marriage to a United States citizen was not a sham to evade immigration
laws.

After a nine-month delay, Mr. Baz filed the application in December to renew his
legal status, but the Immigration and Naturalization Service has not yet ruled
on the request, according to an agency spokesman.

'Permanent Residence'

"Our records indicate that he had a status of conditional permanent residence,
but he let that status expire," said Chip Bogdanski, a spokesman for the
agency's New York district. "His status is now under review based upon the fact
that he and his wife did eventually file the required joint petition to make him
a permanent resident."

Mr. Bogdanski said he could not characterize Mr. Baz's status in the country as
legal or illegal when the shooting occurred last Tuesday.

But independent immigration experts said Mr. Baz's legal ability to remain in
the United States ended the day he failed to renew his green card, and said the
I.N.S. should normally have taken action against him after several months.

In the United States in 1984

"Nine months is a long time to let him go," said Jules Coven, former president
of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. "Usually they would send a case
like that to investigation. I think he got a little lucky."

Mr. Baz, a native of Beirut, entered the country on April 19, 1984 on a student
visa, according to a statement issued yesterday by the I.N.S. in response to
press inquiries last week. On Jan. 7, 1991, he was granted a temporary two-year
green card granting him legal status, based on his 1989 marriage to a United
States citizen. The agency declined to release his wife's name, but neighbors in
the Park Slope section of Brooklyn identified her as Beatriz Romero.

The two-year waiting period for permanent legal status based on marriage was
established in the Immigration Marriage Fraud Act of 1986, designed to weed out
immigrants who establish sham marriages in order to defraud immigration
requirements. The act specifies that an immigrant who marries a citizen must
prove that the marriage is still bona fide two years later.

Once, a Home in Park Slope

Neighbors of Mr. Baz said he walked out on his wife in November of 1992, and she
returned to live with her mother.

After two years, the law requires a couple to submit a joint petition for
permanent legal status. Mr. Baz and his wife did not file such a petition when
their two years were up, the I.N.S. said, and his legal status was terminated on
March 16, 1993.

Nine months later, on Dec. 6, 1993, Mr. Baz and his wife finally filed their
joint petition, and the I.N.S. said the application is currently under review.

Mr. Coven, the immigration attorney, said about 15 to 20 percent of couples in
such situations file their applications a few months late, usually because they
do not understand the requirements. Assuming the marriages are in order, Mr.
Coven said, the I.N.S. generally grants the permanent status despite the
tardiness. But after a lengthy period of time, the I.N.S. often begins
investigating such cases, he said, and can begin deportation proceedings.

"The I.N.S. has a lot of different offices, and as a practical matter, they
don't always keep up with people who fail to file in a timely manner," said
Bruno Bembi, an immigration lawyer based in Manhattan.

Mr. Coven said the key question on Mr. Baz's status was whether the agency had
granted Mr. Baz an extension after he filed his new application in December. In
that case, he said, Mr. Baz would have been a legal resident at the time of the
shooting.

Mr. Bogdanski, the I.N.S. spokesman, said he could not determine whether such a
letter was sent, and said he could not comment on the suggestion that Mr. Baz
had slipped through the agency's procedures.

The I.N.S. also said yesterday that Bassam Reyati, the Jordanian immigrant
accused of aiding Mr. Baz and hindering the prosecution after the shooting, is
in the country legally as a result of his 1991 marriage to a citizen. His
two-year waiting period will end at the end of 1994. The agency said it could
find no record of Hilal Mohammed.

Questions for 20 Hours

S. Michael Musa-Obregon, Mr. Baz's lawyer, said his client requested a lawyer
during his interrogation by the police last Wednesday, and none was provided. He
contended that this will ultimately render inadmissible Mr. Baz's statements at
the time, in which police officials say he admitted to the shooting but said it
was the result of a traffic altercation.

"They barraged him with questions for 20 hours," Mr. Musa-Obregon said.

He also accused Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of having created an "anti-Arab
atmosphere" with his handling of the case, and objected to recent reports
describing Mr. Baz as a peripheral player in the city's drug underworld. He said
Mr. Baz was simply a blue-collar worker.

Meanwhile, Federal officials have come up with new information linking two of
the guns that the police say Mr. Baz possessed to illegal traffickers who
originally bought the weapons out of state. A Glock 9-millimeter handgun has
been traced to a convicted narcotics and firearms trafficker who bought it in a
Miami gun store and is now serving a 50-month sentence for cocaine dealing.

The trafficker, whom officials did not identify, was arrested after he tried to
ship 100 firearms illegally to New York in late 1992.

Federal investigators are also trying to locate a suspected illegal arms dealer
who bought in an Atlanta gun store the Streetsweeper 12-gauge automatic shotgun
the police said they found in Mr. Baz's apartment. It is not clear whether Mr.
Baz had any direct link to the gun dealers.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 7, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Rights Leader Charged in Immigration Fraud

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 21;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 412 words

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., April 6


The leader of a national Hispanic civil rights organization has been indicted in
what prosecutors describe as a multimillion-dollar immigration fraud scheme.

The 17-count indictment filed on Tuesday accuses Jose Velez, national president
of the League of United Latin American Citizens, and three Taiwanese men of
running an "assembly line" operation that brought wealthy Asians to the United
States with fraudulent documents.

The indictment charges that Mr. Velez and his immigration consulting company
recruited illegal aliens "and brought them to Las Vegas by busloads to file
false applications" for immigration amnesty from May 1988 to January 1990.

Federal prosecutors say the men then supplied the aliens with false work
records, indicating that the immigrants had been living in the United States
since before 1982, or had been working in the country since 1984, so they could
claim legal residency under the amnesty provisions of the Immigration Control
and Reform Act of 1986.

The 1986 law provided that any alien who had lived in the country illegally
since before 1982 or had worked as a seasonal agricultural laborer for at least
90 days each year in 1984, 1985 and 1986 could file an amnesty application and
legalize his or her status. The original filing period ended in May 1988, but
the courts extended the deadline for some categories of immigrants.

Mr. Velez charged most of his applicants $250 to $3,500, but in one case a
Taiwanese businessman was charged $45,000, the indictment said.

The league itself was not accused of any wrongdoing. Calls placed today to the
league's Las Vegas office and to a Jose Velez listed in Las Vegas were not
returned.

The indictment charges three Taiwanese citizens, Billy Tzeng, Al Feng and Simon
Chang, with recruiting people to file false claims through Mr. Velez's
immigration consulting company, Velez and Sons Inc., and through the league's
Nevada branch. Portions of the five-figure fees were then funneled to Mr. Velez,
the indictment said. At the time, Mr. Velez was the state director of the
league's Nevada branch, which was designated by the Government to file amnesty
applications.

Mr. Velez's son, Peter, pleaded guilty on March 22 to assisting his father and
associates in processing 5,600 false applications for nearly $5.7 million.

The indictment also charges that Mr. Velez and Mr. Tzeng bought fraudulent
affidavits from farm employers stating that aliens were seasonal laborers.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Canada Bars Speech by Ex-Aide of Farrakhan

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 10;  Column 1;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 30


Canada's Ministry of Immigration has barred a former senior aide of Louis
Farrakhan, the American black nationalist leader, from making a speech today
before a black student group at the University of Toronto.

Immigration officials said Friday that the former aide, Khalid Abdul Muhammad,
had been declared inadmissible to Canada because he had a criminal record and
because they had "reason to believe he would engage in criminal activities" by
violating hate-crime provisions in the Criminal Code of Canada.

Mr. Farrakhan, the leader of the Nation of Islam, dismissed Mr. Muhammad as his
national assistant in the organization in February after condemning the tone of
a speech that Mr. Muhammad made at Kean College in New Jersey in November. Mr.
Muhammad had told students at Kean that, among other things, Jews were "sucking
our blood in the black community."

Mr. Muhammad, 45, was last in Canada in May 1993, when he gave speeches at four
universities. After receiving complaints of racist statements at the time, the
immigration authorities asked him to appear before a panel of inquiry. He
declined.

Immigration officials now say Mr. Muhammad will be turned back from any point of
entry into Canada. He had been invited to address a local organization known as
the Black Youth Congress.

The Canadian Jewish Congress lobbied hard for the exclusion. In a letter to
Immigration Minister Sergio Marchi, the Jewish group's president, Irving Abella
called Mr. Muhammad a "racist agitator," and said there was an "unassailable
case that he does not belong here."

The Immigration Ministry's decision not to issue a visitor's permit to Mr.
Muhammad nettled some advocates of free speech, who said the action appeared to
be based solely on his opinions.

"There is everything to be lost, and little to be gained, by such prior
restraint in matters of speech," The Globe and Mail of Toronto said in an
editorial. "If he breaks the law, then let him face the law -- after the fact,
not before."

The case has been contrasted with a decision by immigration officials last
August to grant a five-year stay of deportation to a Jamaican, Oneil Grant, with
a string of assault and weapons convictions.

Mr. Grant has just been charged in the shotgun killing of a young woman during a
robbery in a cafe in a fashionable part of Toronto. The slaying has shocked a
city that prides itself on law and order.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 10, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Trade Center Defendant Agrees to a Plea Bargain

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 576 words


A Jordanian immigrant who has been in police custody for more than a year in
connection with the World Trade Center bombing pleaded guilty yesterday in
Federal court to immigration fraud as part of a plea agreement with prosecutors.

The man, Bilal Alkaisi, told Judge Kevin T. Duffy in United States District
Court in Manhattan that he had lied on immigration papers to improve his chances
of gaining permanent residency in the United States. He also agreed to submit to
deportation to any country except Jordan after serving a yet-to-be-determined
sentence. In return, the Government dropped the seven conspiracy charges against
him connected to the bombing.

Although Mr. Alkaisi, 29, was charged with the Trade Center bombing last year
along with five other defendants, prosecutors from the beginning considered him
a peripheral figure in the plot.

Defendants Lived Together

In earlier indictments, prosecutors said Mr. Alkaisi formed part of a web that
linked the defendants to each other and the bombing. Prosecutors said Mr.
Alkaisi and other defendants had shared apartments, a Newark safe-deposit box
and access to a Jersey City storage locker. One co-defendant, Mahmud Abouhalima,
had taught Mr. Alkaisi how to drive a taxi. Another, Nidal A. Ayyad, was found
to be carrying a credit card with Mr. Alkaisi's name on it.

But United States Attorney Mary Jo White said in a statement yesterday that the
Government did not have enough evidence of Mr. Alkaisi's involvement in the
Trade Center bombing "to obtain a sustainable conviction beyond a reasonable
doubt."

A teacher at a Brooklyn mosque and a taxi driver of Palestinian descent, Mr.
Alkaisi was arrested in March of 1993, a month after the blast, when he appeared
at an F.B.I. office in Newark saying he had heard that agents wanted to talk
with him. Federal Bureau of Investigation officials later said he had told them
nothing that aided their investigation.

Mr. Alkaisi's case was eventually separated from that of four other defendants
before their five-month-long conspiracy trial began last September. All four men
on trial were convicted of planting the bomb that killed six people and injured
more than 1,000 others on Feb. 26, 1993. Those defendants are scheduled to be
sentenced on May 24.

'No Promises'

Another man charged in the case, Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, is believed to have fled
the country after the bombing. Mr. Alkaisi, meanwhile, has remained in jail,
having been denied bail.

Ms. White said yesterday that the Government "made no promises or agreements not
to bring new charges against the defendant." According to the plea agreement,
any such charges would have to be based in part on evidence acquired after the
date of the agreement, which was reached yesterday.

During the hearing, Mr. Alkaisi told the court that he had first arrived in the
United States by way of Chicago on February 4, 1986, and entered on a student
visa.

He admitted, however, that he had later lied about his entry into this country
when in 1992 he reported to the Immigration and Naturalization Service that he
had arrived from Jordan by way of New York City on October 10, 1987, and was
seeking asylum. But Mr. Alkaisi never followed through with the asylum
application process, his lawyers said.

The lawyers, Robert S. Ellis and Michael S. Washor, also asked Judge Duffy to
reconsider the possibility of bail for their client. Judge Duffy denied the
request.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bilal Alkaisi, in a sketch from his arraignment in New York in
the World Trade Center bombing case in March 1993. (Reuters)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 13, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Waiting for a Rudder at I.N.S.

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 43; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 925 words


When the freighter Golden Venture ran aground off Queens last weekend, it
sparked the latest crisis to confront an immigration agency that has lurched
from controversy to controversy without a leader since President Clinton took
office.

At a most sensitive time in immigration history, Mr. Clinton has not yet
nominated an Immigration and Naturalization Service Commissioner or publicly
articulated an immigration policy distinct from his Republican predecessor. As
most senior immigration jobs are empty, the agency is being run by holdovers
from the Bush Administration in Washington. And into the vacuum local I.N.S.
directors, career officials like William S. Slattery in New York, have moved to
reassert their power and law-enforcement priorities.

To be fair, few recent Presidents have rushed to fill the top I.N.S. job upon
assuming office. But the immigration issue carries a distinct urgency now. From
the outset of his Presidency, when Mr. Clinton risked having his inaugural
celebration disturbed by an exodus of Haitian boat people, one major problem
after another has presented itself: Zoe Baird's hiring of illegal immigrants,
the revelation of a World Trade Center bombing suspect's entry into the country
by claiming political asylum, the Golden Venture, and last week's judicial order
closing the detention camp for H.I.V.-positive Haitians in Guantanamo, Cuba.

Extremely Fragile Moment'

"It's an extremely fragile moment for the agency to be rudderless," said Warren
Leiden, executive director of the American Immigration Lawyers Association in
Washington. "Some of our most shameful, exclusionary immigration laws have been
passed at moments just like this, when the country was suffering an economic
downturn and foreigners were focused on as a threat."

While the White House has remained silent, many immigration experts expect that
Mr. Clinton will nominate Doris M. Meissner as commissioner of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service. And they believe that the nomination is imminent.
Ms. Meissner, an immigration expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, was the acting commissioner and an associate executive commissioner of
the I.N.S. under President Reagan. Well-versed in immigration law and the arcane
inner workings of the agency, Ms. Meissner is a safe choice, both an insider and
a knowledgeable expert. Fellow immigration specialists believe she will probably
focus first on the management problems plaguing the agency's notoriously
inefficient bureaucracy.

During this interim period, however, without a central office to rein them in,
local immigration directors have attempted to recapture some of the ground they
lost under Gene McNary, the Commissioner under President Bush. Mr. McNary had
tried to curb the discretionary power of the local offices, which historically
made the agency a kingdom of barons without any monarch. Local directors felt
that Mr. McNary did not give a high enough priority to enforcement and paid too
much attention to the agency's human rights responsibilities, like running the
political asylum system.

After the World Trade Center bombing and again after the grounding of the Golden
Venture, Mr. Slattery seized the moment to make public appearances railing
against the humanitarian leniencies of the asylum system. While advocates for
immigrants have long criticized the Immigration and Naturalization Service for
its backlogged system, Mr. Slattery and other officials turned the tables,
blaming the supposedly crafty immigrants who stormed the gates.

Grabbing the Initiative

Immigration lawyers in New York said it was unclear whether Mr. Slattery had
been instructed to make an example of the illegal Chinese immigrants from the
grounded freighter, or whether he had grabbed the initiative to get tough
himself by keeping them in detention centers.

"Slattery cannot not conceive of an alien who has a legitimate claim of
persecution, and he has been much admired during this interregnum by other
career bureaucrats for reasserting the old-timers' cynicism about political
asylum," said Arthur Helton, an immigration expert for the Lawyers Committee for
International Human Rights.

Rosemary LaGuardia, a spokeswoman for Mr. Slattery, said he was traveling and
could not be reached for comment.

As local immigration officials have tried to reassert their autonomy, they have
received mixed signals from the Clinton Administration about whether big change
was really on the horizon.

'Immoral' Repatriation

During the Presidential campaign, Mr. Clinton criticized the Bush
Administration's "immoral" repatriation of Haitian boat people, yet as President
he embraced the same policy. Similarly, Mr. Clinton not only kept open the
barbed-wire detention camp for Haitian refugees at the Guantanamo Naval Base, he
also continued the Bush Administration's legal fight against closing it until a
Federal judge ordered the camp shut down last week.

"It's confusing to the country that the Clinton Administration now has a
headless immigration agency which is continuing the discredited practices of
Bush," said Lucas Guttentag, who heads the immigration project at the American
Civil Liberties Union.

And from the opposite camp, George High essentially agreed.

"It's very hard to know where this Administration really stands on an issue --
immigration -- that will have an enormous impact on this country," said Mr.
High, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which favors
restrictions on immigration.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Reform Has to Respect Human Rights;
A Burdened Agency

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 434 words


To the Editor:

Andrew Stephen (Op-Ed, June 7) should cheer up. It's not as bad at the
Immigration and Naturalization Service as he might wish.

He should remember that some 40 million people cross our borders each year. All
must be inspected at one or another port of entry. In addition, a million or so
more are examined for green cards under the quota system.

Immigration officers and clerks are overwhelmed by the massive increase in the
number of applications that followed major changes in immigration legislation in
1986 and 1990.

What Mr. Stephen calls the "un-American" Immigration and Naturalization Service
has come a long way in our history. Today we can proudly claim that our
immigration laws are humane and generous. And they compare quite favorably with
Britain's restrictive policies regarding people of color.

Needless to say, there are undertrained, tired and sometimes cranky officers.
These civil servants are often yelled at, cursed and otherwise vilified by
endless numbers of people who want immigration benefits. Immigration and
Naturalization Service people are sometimes wrong and even aggressive in trying
to ferret out undocumented or criminal aliens.

While the ethics and honesty of agency personnel should be open to inquiry and
criticism, there is no justification surreptitiously to tape record a routine
interview, as Mr. Stephen or his lawyer did. He does not claim suspicion of
illegal activity. If Mr. Stephen's lawyer sanctions clandestine taping of a
routine matter, he or she should be disciplined.

Mr. Stephen was queried about his marital status. Examiners have seen thousands
who seek marriage benefits the day after a quick marriage ceremony. Some
purchase marriages, and others claim benefits even after the marriage has
failed. Mr. Stephen was an applicant for a marriage benefit. It is a benefit and
not an entitlement. The law requires that he present himself with evidence to an
examiner that satisfies the terms of the law.

Examiners are not coin-operated vending machines or computer software. Questions
still have to be asked by people. The examiner has a sworn duty to look for
answers and, yes, ferret out fraud and issue denials when warranted.

After years as an immigration lawyer, I have come to regard the Immigration and
Naturalization Service as an adversary, but never an enemy. We conduct our
business in good faith and at arm's length. This is the American way, sometimes
good, sometimes inefficient, but always responsive to efforts to make the system
work better.

MILTON C. GELENIAN
Washington, June 12, 1993

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 19, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

From the White House to a Police Station

BYLINE: By GWEN IFILL,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


During the four years he served as the Labor Department's director of
immigration policy, Demetrios Papademetriou went to the White House more than a
dozen times. But when he arrived today he was arrested, handcuffed,
fingerprinted and held for several hours.

Mr. Papademetriou was following a time-honored insiders' tradition when he
arrived this morning as part of a group of friends accompanying a new
Presidential appointee -- in this case, Doris Meissner, who was about to accept
the President's nomination to head the immigration service.

But this time Mr. Papademetriou, 42, who held the Labor Department post from
1988 to 1992 and had top-secret security clearance until last year, did not make
it past the visitors' gate.

As Ms. Meissner waited with a group of other dignitaries who had been invited to
witness the announcement, Mr. Papademetriou was arrested by the Secret Service.
The authorities later said they had determined that there was an outstanding
warrant against him for possession of stolen property.

The Wrong Papademetriou

Mr. Papademetriou said the trouble involves a man with a similar name who
somehow got Mr. Papademetriou's Social Security number some years ago.

Their paths have crossed before, according to Mr. Papademetriou, who said he has
repeatedly been forced to clear his name in credit checks and Internal Revenue
Service documents.

"It tells you something about the reliability of documents, among other things,"
Mr. Papademetriou said, sounding tired and frustrated. He said he was unsure
what he had been charged with but that a hearing had been scheduled in 30 days.

"It does not take an Einstein to resolve this particular problem," he said. "If
this individual is a criminal, there should be pictures of him as well as his
fingerprints."

Dee Dee Myers, the White House press secretary, said it was "regrettable" if
there was a mix-up.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 30, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

In America;
Send Them Back?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 708 words


The two boys were exhausted, hungry and frightened when they stepped off the
plane in Los Angeles in July 1990.

Ferooz Omaid was 17 and his brother, Shikeb, was 15. They spoke little English
and had no papers. Within minutes of their arrival at Los Angeles International
Airport they were in the hands of immigration authorities.

The boys said they wanted asylum.

Ferooz and Shikeb were from Afghanistan. Their father had been a government
employee who repeatedly expressed his opposition to Communism and the Soviet
invasion. One day some men came to the house and took him away. He was
imprisoned and, after some months, executed.

Less than a year later the boys' mother, while food shopping at a bazaar outside
of Kabul, was killed in a bombing raid.

Ferooz, staunchly anti-Communist and nearly unhinged by the death of his
parents, was taken out of school by the Government and forced into the military,
where he was harassed and beaten.

A grandfather felt that something had to be done. While Ferooz was on a weekend
pass, he and his brother were spirited into Pakistan, where arrangements
eventually were made to place them on a flight to the U.S.

The boys had an aunt in New Jersey. Immigration officials in Los Angeles
contacted her and she called the International Rescue Committee, an agency that
assists refugees.

"The boys were underweight and undernourished -- they looked like they had just
come out of a concentration camp," said Estelle Strizhak, an immigration
specialist with the committee.

She went to work processing their application for asylum. In other words, she
began formatting two new editions of the American Dream.

The boys came east to stay with their aunt. Ms. Strizhak recalled, "The first
thing they discovered were cheap sunglasses in Woolworth's.  They were wearing
these sunglasses as we went around from office to office -- they looked like my
bodyguards."

At the time, "Terminator 2" was a big hit at the movies. "Naturally they like
action movies," said Ms. Strizhak. "One of the questions I was asked was, 'What
does hasta la vista, baby, mean?' I explained to them what it meant, but I told
them, 'When we're going to immigration, don't say hasta la vista, baby, to
anybody. O.K.?"

She added, "They're really very lovely boys."

Ferooz and Shikeb were granted asylum in Newark in July 1991. The horror of
Afghanistan is behind them.

But under legislation that is gaining momentum in Congress, their story could
have ended differently.

In March, Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Republican from Wyoming, introduced a bill
designed to thwart "frivolous" political asylum claims.  Senator Simpson's bill
is riding the anti-immigration wave that has been rolling across the U.S. since
the World Trade Center bombing in February.

When his bill was introduced, Senator Simpson said, "In recent weeks the nation
has seen a rash of violence that has reportedly involved aliens who entered the
country under false pretenses."

The Senator's remedy is to give agents from the Immigration and Naturalization
Service the authority to "immediately exclude any alien" who comes to the U.S.
with no documents or with fraudulent documents, "unless a 'credible claim' for
refugee status is made."

An I.N.S. agent at the point of entry (usually an airport) would determine on
the spot which claims are credible.

This is bad legislation that is benefiting from the genuine fear of terrorist
bombing attacks. Terrorists will not be thwarted by Senator Simpson's "summary
exclusion" bill -- they will scoff at it. But lots of people with genuine claims
to asylum will be turned away if the bill becomes law.

The Omaid brothers were given documents compiled in Pakistan that allowed them
to board a plane to the U.S., but they were told to flush the documents down the
toilet during the flight, which they did.

Presumably the documents were phony. But an extensive investigation has shown
that the boys' story was true.

A spokeswoman for Senator Simpson was asked what an immigration agent would be
expected to do if individuals arrived in the U.S. with no documents and their
story did not seem credible.

She didn't hesitate. "Put them right back on the plane, immediately, and send
them back," she said.

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 10, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Board Rejects Sheik's Plea for Asylum

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 922 words


Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the radical Islamic cleric whose followers have been
linked to two bombing conspiracies in New York City, suffered a setback
yesterday in his efforts to stay in the United States as the Board of
Immigration Appeals in Washington rejected his request for political asylum.

The board also upheld an earlier order by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service that he be expelled.

But Federal officials and immigration-law experts said that many more levels of
appeal remained for the blind, 55-year-old cleric and that it would probably be
months, if not years, before the issue was resolved.

Rohit Turkhud, a lawyer for Mr. Abdel Rahman, said, "We are exploring all
available legal avenues."

Seeking His Release

Mr. Abdel Rahman, whose case has been further complicated by a request from
Egypt for his extradition on charges of inciting an anti-Government riot, has
asked for asylum on the grounds that he fears persecution if he is forced to
return to Egypt.

Late yesterday afternoon, Barbara A. Nelson, Mr. Abdel Rahman's main immigration
lawyer, filed papers in Federal District Court in Manhattan seeking his release
from the upstate New York prison where he has been detained since surrendering
to Federal authorities in Brooklyn on July 2.

In the court papers, Ms. Nelson said that Attorney General Janet Reno, who
ordered Mr. Abdel Rahman's arrest, failed to show that he posed a danger to the
community or was likely to flee the country. She said it was unconstitutional to
jail Mr. Abdel Rahman without allowing him to defend himself in a hearing.

The next step, lawyers said, is for Judge Charles L. Brieant of Federal District
Court to schedule a hearing, probably early next week, at which the Justice
Department will be required to explain the decision to jail Mr. Abdel Rahman.

Theodore Ruthizer, the former president of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association, said that details are likely to emerge in the hearing about Mr.
Abdel Rahman's relationship to the men accused in the bombing of the World Trade
Center and the plot to bomb the Lincoln and Holland tunnels and other targets in
New York City.

"They may say that they don't have sufficient evidence to indict him," Mr.
Ruthizer said, "but that they have enough to cause grave concern if he's at
liberty."

Still Hospitalized

Dr. M. T. Mehdi, the secretary general of the National Council on Islamic
Affairs, said he was "exceedingly disappointed" by the immigration board's
decision.

Dr. Mehdi said that officials at the Federal prison in Otisville, N.Y., told him
yesterday that Mr. Abdel Rahman was still hospitalized there for a blood-sugar
disorder linked to diabetes. "I understand that he is improving and that he is
taking some of his medication," Mr. Mehdi said, "but that he is demoralized. And
this was before the news that the board had rejected his appeal."

A Justice Department official said the immigration board's decision was not
being made public "because it is protected by the Privacy Act."

But Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said the case on which the
board ruled yesterday began evolving on July 31, 1991, when immigration
officials found indications in a computer file that Mr. Abdel Rahman had
falsified a check in Egypt and was a polygamist. Mr. Abdel Rahman had previously
been placed on an immigration look-out list because he had been implicated in
the assassination of President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt in 1981. But because of
an administrative error, immigration officials said, he had been issued a
visitor's visa in the Sudan.

As is often the case, Mr. Abdel Rahman was permitted to live in the United
States while the Government took a series of steps to expel him, which led to
his request for political asylum in January of this year. In March, shortly
after the bombing of the World Trade Center on Feb. 26, an immigration judge
denied that request and ordered his expulsion. The board yesterday upheld that
decision.

Mr. Abdel Rahman's lawyers would not discuss their strategy, but other
immigration lawyers said it was likely he would begin a series of appeals in the
Federal courts that could ultimately reach the United States Supreme Court.

Pressing Extradition

At the same time, Egypt is expected to press the case for Mr. Abdel Rahman's
extradition, which apparently is becoming more complex. Egyptian officials had
previously said they hoped Mr. Abdel Rahman would remain in the United States.
But they said they requested his extradition last Sunday after American
diplomats cautioned that Mr. Abdel Rahman might leave the United States and set
up operations in the Sudan, a country that Egypt has accused of harboring
terrorists bent on overthrowing the Cairo Government.

Mr. Ruthizer and other immigration-law experts, however, said that Mr. Abdel
Rahman could not have legally left the United States while his appeal was
pending without the permission of an immigration judge. And obtaining such
permission, Mr. Ruthizer said, would have been unlikely.

In yet another complication, State Department officials said that the
extradition treaty between the United States and Egypt, which is more than 100
years old, does not permit extradition on the basis of "any crime or offense of
a political character," like the speech Mr. Abdel Rahman gave four years ago
that led to charges of inciting a riot. A State Department official said
yesterday, "We are working on technical matters related to the extradition
request."

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 31, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Saipan, 15 Years On, Correcting Labor Abuses;
Slave Wages

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 247 words


To the Editor:

You are to be congratulated for your hard look at the sweatshops in the Northern
Marianas Islands (front page, July 18) and the commonwealth government's
apparent lack of interest in solving the problem. It's an embarrassment that any
jurisdiction of the United States is allowed by law to import foreign workers,
pay slave wages and force them to live and work in substandard conditions.

I introduced legislation last April to put a stop to these practices by applying
Federal immigration laws to the commonwealth. Our immigration laws were meant to
protect the rights of United States citizens wherever they reside, and those
laws should apply equally to all Americans.

I am pleased that my legislation, which would save taxpayers nearly $200 million
by cutting off special Federal payment to the commonwealth, was included in the
budget reconciliation bill last May by the House Natural Resources Committee.
The Federal Government would otherwise be committed to giving the commonwealth
$194 million over the next seven years -- an outrage, given that the
commonwealth's government annually rebates $50 million to local taxpayers.

Sweatshop conditions cannot be tolerated anywhere on United States soil, whether
because of illegal aliens willing to accept jobs at any price in the New York
and Los Angeles garment districts or "legal" immigrants to Saipan.

ELTON GALLEGLY
Member of Congress, 23d Dist., Calif.
Washington, July 21, 1993


LOAD-DATE: July 31, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 3, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Secret Tapes Are Disclosed In Bomb Plot;
Deportation Is Fought

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 188 words

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Aug. 2


The lawyer for Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the Egyptian cleric whose followers are
charged in two bombing plots, argued yesterday that the Government's efforts to
deport him are illegal because he had not been given the proper hearings.

During oral arguments in Federal District Court here, the lawyer, Barbara
Nelson, said that immigration officials had improperly taken Mr. Abdel Rahman's
green card in March 1992 without bringing the matter before a judge.

No longer a legal resident, Mr. Abdel Rahman was detained last month and is
being held at the Federal prison in Otisville, N.Y., on a so-called exclusion
order while he awaits a decision on his appeal.

In arguments over the arcana of immigration law, prosecutors countered that Mr.
Abdel Rahman's lawyers had failed to respond to a notice that the card, which
gave the 55-year-old Muslim cleric permanent resident status, was being revoked.

The prosecutors said that they sought to revoke the card because Mr. Abdel
Rahman had lied on his residency application about past arrests and about being
a polygamist -- both grounds for exclusion or deportation.

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 31, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

New York City Offers A Women's Health Line

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 208 words



To the Editor:

Poor women or recent immigrants who wish to terminate an unwanted or ill-timed
pregnancy should be aware of a valuable New York City Department of Health
resource to help them.

The Women's Healthline was established to help reduce infant mortality in New
York City by improving access to health care. The service is available to people
regardless of income or immigration status, is confidential and refers only to
licensed clinics or hospitals. The telephone number for the Women's Healthline
is 230-1111. The service can be reached from any telephone in the city without
an area code.

The Healthline counselors are multilingual, are trained public health advisors
and are particularly sensitive to the needs of women with limited resources, or
those concerned about immigration regulations.

Anyone who is seeking a referral for free or low-cost pregnancy testing, family
planning, abortion or gynecology, who needs an appointment for prenatal care or
simply has questions or concerns about reproductive health is invited to call
the Women's Healthline. We will be pleased to help.

ELIZABETH H. GRAHAM
Asst. Commissioner, Maternity
Services & Family Planning
Department of Health
New York, Aug. 21, 1993

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 4, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Exorcising McCarran-Walter's Ghost

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 387 words


Palestinians and Israelis are groping toward peace. But U.S. immigration
officials are still treating some Palestinian immigrants with suspicion and
seeking to deport them for their ideological beliefs alone. In the wake of the
recent rapprochement in the Middle East, about 70 prominent law professors have
now urged Attorney General Janet Reno to rethink a backward policy.

In 1987 two Palestinian immigrants were arrested at gunpoint in Los Angeles.
They were taken into custody by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
detained in maximum security for three weeks. Eventually they were released from
jail, but their case is still pending.

What was their crime? They had given financial and verbal support to the Popular
Front for the Liberation of Palestine, a self-described Marxist organization.
The Popular Front was involved in several hijackings in the 1970's, including
that of the Air France jet flown to Uganda, where Israeli commandos killed the
hijackers. But there's never been any evidence that the arrested immigrants were
involved in any terrorist acts.

They were originally charged under the 1952 McCarran-Walter Act, which allowed
for the deportation of aliens who were merely affiliated with a group advocating
world Communism. But in 1990, Congress gutted the ideological content of
McCarran-Walter -- the provisions that made a suspect guilty by association --
while preserving the Government's right to deport those who engage in or give
"material support" to the conduct of terrorist activities.

The Bush Administration interpreted the new law to include anyone who supported
a group that committed violent acts, even if the support was limited to
contributions for lawful activities like humanitarian aid or speaking tours.
Such a broad interpretation would make aliens who give money to the Palestine
Liberation Organization to further the recent peace agreement with Israel
vulnerable to deportation.

That's bizarre. The 1990 law was meant to recognize that the cold war was over
and to give foreigners residing in the U.S. broader rights of speech and
association. Under the Bush Administration, the law remained mired in the
hysteria of the 1950's. It's time for Ms. Reno to adopt a new interpretation of
the law that's consistent with Congressional intent.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 20, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Publio A. Esperdy, 89, Immigration Official

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words


Publio A. Esperdy, who was the Immigration and Naturalization Service's district
director for the New York region for a dozen years beginning in 1959, died on
Wednesday at Sunrise Medical Center in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89 and had
lived in retirement in Fort Lauderdale.

The cause was cardiac arrest, said his son Philip.

Mr. Esperdy was widely known as P. A. Esperdy or as Peter A. Esperdy.

He was born in Key West, Fla. He received a law degree from George Washington
University in Washington in 1927. He then entered the Immigration Service and
rose through its ranks to become a high regional official, based in Richmond,
from 1955 until 1959.

Among Mr. Esperdy's tasks in the New York regional post was trying to cope with
the large number of Dominicans coming to the United States on tourist visas and
then staying illegally.

His wife, the former Marion Cristel, died in 1974 after 40 years of marriage.

In addition to his son Philip, of Philadelphia, he is survived by another son,
Robert, of Richmond.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 20, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

A Serbian Muslim Who Fled Faces Deportation by U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 123 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Dec. 19


A Serbian Muslim who fled Serbia to avoid being drafted into the army is facing
deportation after his application for political asylum in the United States was
rejected.

The Serbian Muslim is a 24-year-old man who has been held in a detention center
in San Pedro since being arrested by the Immigration and Naturalization Service
eight months ago. His name is being withheld because of fears of retaliation
against his relatives in Serbia.

His immigration attorney, Valerie Curtis, has filed a final motion to reopen the
case but has been told by immigration officials that the man will be immediately
deported if the motion is turned down. The immigration judge, Lauren R. Mathon,
would not say when she would issue a ruling.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 20, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

17 Arrive From Haiti And Cuba Together, But Fates May Differ

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 336 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 19


Seventeen Cubans and Haitians who joined forces and bought a boat for a voyage
to the United States arrived in the Miami area over the weekend, the Border
Patrol said today.

The seven Cubans and 10 Haitians told the authorities that they met in the
Bahamas, pooled their money, bought a boat and made the eight-hour trip to
Florida on Saturday.

The arrival of the group underscored how differently refugees from the two
Caribbean countries are treated under United States immigration law.

To avoid deportation, the Haitians must prove they face persecution in their
homeland. But Cubans, under a 1966 law granting refugees from the island special
treatment, are automatically eligible for permanent residency a year and a day
after they arrive in the United States.

Although Cubans who come from third countries like the Bahamas are not
automatically eligible for entry to the United States, they are almost never
sent back to their homeland.

'Let Them Stay'

"There's a definite disparity between Haitians and Cubans who have been arriving
together for several months," said Rolande Dorancy, executive director of the
Haitian Refugee Center, an advocacy group in Miami.

"They should let them stay," said Rolando Gonzalez, 27, one of the seven Cubans.
"They've gone through as much trouble as we have."

Both the Haitians and the Cubans were released and ordered to appear before an
immigration judge to explain why they should be granted asylum.

Four other boats intercepted this weekend carried either all Cubans or all
Haitians, Mike Sheehy, a Border Patrol spokesman, said.

Border Patrol agents picked up the refugees from the Cuban-Haitian group and
three of the other boats.

The agents interviewed two Bahamian crewmen from the fifth boat, which they
believe smuggled in 4 to 10 Haitians, who got away, he said.

Immigration authorities have said they are concerned about the growing use of
the Bahamas as a launching point for alien smuggling and illegal entry into
Florida.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Told to Show Deportations Aren't Biased

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 8


For seven years a group of eight Palestinian immigrants here has complained of
being singled out for deportation because of leftist views. Now a Federal judge
has ordered the Government to show that it does not discriminate when it decides
which immigrants must be deported and which can stay.

The ruling on Friday by the judge, Stephen V. Wilson of Federal District Court,
orders the Government to disclose details of how it treats immigrants who
espouse unwelcome views, and whom it wants to deport for technical violations.
And, some critics contend, it is likely to show that the Government for years
has granted favorable status to foreigners who supported pro-Administration
causes or groups like the Nicaraguan contras or anti-Castro Cubans.

Judge Wilson, who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, gave six of the
Palestinians a temporary reprieve from deportation proceedings while the
Government complies with his order. He also ordered the Government not to rely
on classified information in denying two of the Palestinians permanent resident
status, unless it provides them with that information. Immigration officials had
argued that the information should be kept secret to guard national security.

Critics See a Witch Hunt

The case involves a protracted effort by the immigration authorities to deport
the eight Palestinians, two of whom have been accused under a 1991 Federal
statute that made it illegal for noncitizens to provide material support to a
terrorist organization. The other six, who are the subject of Judge Wilson's
ruling, are being prosecuted for a variety of technical violations, like
overstaying their visas or working without a permit. The immigrants' lawyers say
the effort against all eight is a witch hunt to weed out foreigners who espouse
unwelcome views.

The case dates back to the bloodiest days of the Palestinian uprising against
Israel and a wave of attacks on Americans abroad, when Western governments took
drastic measures to suppress terrorism. One such effort involved the arrests of
the eight Palestinians in January 1987, although no criminal charges were ever
filed.

Since then, the cold war has ended, a new Administration has taken office and
Palestinians are negotiating with Israelis in what was once considered a
virtually impossible truce. Many civil rights supporters say the Clinton
Administration should abandon the case against the immigrants, particularly
since President Clinton has asked foreign governments and others to send aid to
the Palestinians as they begin the process of self-rule in the West Bank and
Gaza Strip.

"We hope very much that the Clinton Administration will look at the whole case
over again in light of the judge's rulings, and in light of the fact that the
Clinton Administration has asked people around the world to raise money for
P.L.O.-run institutions to help the peace process," said Marc Van Der Hout, a
lawyer with the National Lawyers' Guild who has represented the Palestinians in
their deportation case. "That is all our clients have ever been accused of
doing. That is constitutionally protected."

First Amendment Concerns

A Justice Department spokesman, Carl Stern, said he had not read Judge Wilson's
ruling and could not comment on it.

The eight immigrants support the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine,
a self-described Marxist organization that was involved in several airline
hijackings in the 1970's in a campaign for Palestinian self-rule. But the
Government has conceded there is no evidence that the eight committed any
terrorist acts, only that they sent money and otherwise supported the liberation
group in nonviolent ways.

The case has raised concerns about the First Amendment rights of noncitizens
because two of the eight, Khader Hamide and Michel Shehadeh, are being
prosecuted for raising money for the liberation group. Judge Wilson said he
could not rule on their case because it was the subject of a separate trial in
Federal Immigration Court in Los Angeles.

In his ruling, Judge Wilson ordered the Government to show that it does not seek
to deport on technical grounds only those foreigners who support groups with
unwelcome views. The judge gave the Government until Feb. 11 to produce records
of all deportation proceedings pursued on technical grounds between 1986 and
1993 against supporters of groups with friendly views. The documents must
include at least each individual's nation of origin, group affiliation, the
immigration violation each is accused of and the disposition of the proceedings.

Judge Wilson agreed with the immigrants that their support of the liberation
front should not be seen as promoting terrorism. "Mere association with the
P.F.L.P. is protected by the First Amendment," Judge Wilson wrote. "The P.F.L.P.
is not solely a criminal organization. It does more than conduct terrorist
operations."

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Can We Afford So Many Unskilled Immigrants?;
New York Burden

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 438 words


To the Editor:

"The Unfair Immigration Burden" (editorial, Jan. 11) makes clear that New York
and only a handful of other states bear an unfair and heavy burden for
immigration policies written and regulated in Washington.

Based on five public hearings I conducted in New York City as chairman of the
State Senate Committee on Cities last September and October, the costs paid by
the state and localities in excess of Federal reimbursement and in lieu of
Federal assistance for services to refugees, asylum seekers and other legal
immigrants, as well as undocumented aliens, may be greater than ever imagined.

For example, the Emergency Immigration Education Act is so restrictive and
limited that the difference between Federal immigrant student reimbursements and
costs statewide last year was more than $1 billion.

The number of students eligible for immigrant-student funds has tripled
statewide from 50,925 (1989-90) to 158,520 (1992-93), for which Federal support
under the emergency law remains a minuscule $37.15 for each eligible student.
The Federal commitment to helping New York is further diminished by the rule
stating that school districts with 499 immigrant students (or less than 3
percent of the total district enrollment) are not eligible for any Federal help.

Consider that the additional annual cost for bilingual instruction is $687 a
student, and 65,000 immigrant students began classes in the New York City public
schools in the 12 months ending last March 1. The city schools include students
from 167 countries speaking 185 languages and dialects.

There are also 17,000 adults awaiting placement in English as a second language
programs in the city because of lack of Federal funds.

More than 20 percent of all immigrants in the United States reside in New York
State. That share should rise. Nearly 100,000 immigrants, including 45,000 who
are undocumented, come to this state annually. While meeting the needs of legal
immigrants is difficult because of meager Federal support, providing services
for an illegal alien population estimated at 490,000, for whom the Federal
Government provides virtually no reimbursement, is Herculean.

Congress must recognize its obligation to New York and other states with
significant immigrant populations by providing Federal funds commensurate with
costs for bilingual instruction and other criminal justice, social service and
health programs. Federal authorities must also seriously explore prescreening
aliens traveling to the United States without documentation.

FRANK PADAVAN
State Senator, 11th Dist., Queens
Albany, Jan. 12, 1994

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Can We Afford So Many Unskilled Immigrants?;
Spectrum of Support

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 6;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 125 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis in "The Politics of Nativism" (column, Jan. 14) questions the fund
sources of the Federation for American Immigration Reform. Let's set the record
straight: FAIR receives grants from some 40 public and private foundations,
which span the spectrum from liberal to conservative. In addition, we have some
50,000 members nationwide.

Not one dime of our funds comes with strings attached, and nothing in our
15-year record suggests that our concerns are any different from those of the
vast majority of Americans who simply believe immigration levels, legal and
illegal, are too high to be sustained.

DAN STEIN
Executive Director, Federation
for American Immigration Reform
Washington, Jan. 14, 1994

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 31, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

65 Haitians Seized off Florida

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 269 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 30


The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service is holding 65 Haitians
seeking political asylum at an immigration detention center after the Coast
Guard intercepted them on Saturday, a Coast Guard spokesman said.

Although all 65 came from the same rickety freighter, the nine who made it to
shore earlier in a small skiff will be treated differently than those who waited
on board the 60-foot freighter for the Coast Guard.

The 56 who waited were detained as "excludable" and could be deported faster
than those who fled into the surf on a smaller boat and were held as
"deportable."

The excludables can be sent back home if they have no immediate qualification to
stay, like a solid basis for a political asylum request. Deportation proceedings
for the nine, on the other hand, can require extensive, courtlike hearings that
can drag on for years.

Rowdy Adams, supervising agent at the Border Patrol office in Miami, said today
that the difference was that the nine physically touched American soil.

"It's sometimes doesn't seem fair and it is certainly confusing," he said, "but
that's the way it's been mandated by the U.S. Congress."

The Haitians are likely to be released into the custody of family members or to
community service groups.

"All of them will go through exclusion proceedings that provide them with the
opportunity for due process," said Ana Cobian, spokeswoman for the Justice
Department.

Those who stayed on the boat on Saturday included 22 men, 17 women and 17
children. The boat's crew and the people who arranged the trip rowed ashore on
the skiff, Mr. Adams said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Woman in the News;
Immigration Expert Who Takes Broad Approach -- Doris Marie Meissner

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19


4 A child of immigrants, Doris M. Meissner grew up in a German-speaking
household in Milwaukee during World War II and suffered the anguish of ethnic
discrimination early.

"I can clearly recall sitting on buses and streetcars and hearing my mother tell
me not to talk, because it wasn't good to be heard speaking German," she said in
a telephone interview from Milwaukee.

Ms. Meissner, 51, is now expected to become the custodian of the hopes of
today's immigrants and those trying to gain entry. President Clinton nominated
her on Friday to be Commissioner of Immigration, which requires Senate
confirmation.

Ms. Meissner (pronounced MICE-ner) has specialized in immigration issues for
nearly two decades, serving at the Justice Department in Democratic and
Republican administrations. She served briefly as acting Commissioner in 1981.

Her family nurtured her longstanding interest in government and public issues,
she said. "I think it probably came from my home and from my parents' strong
feeling that you give back," she said. "They were always very grateful to have
been here and to have built a life here."

Paying a Debt

She has spent her life trying to give something back to her country, in two
areas: women's rights and immigration policy. "I'm committed to the full
participation of women in the life of our society," said Ms. Meissner, who for a
time led the National Women's Political Caucus.

Ms. Meissner has won plaudits for bringing diverse groups together during 13
years at the Justice Department and during her present role as director of the
Immigration Policy Project of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.

"Immigration has traditionally been the province of advocacy groups only," she
said. "We have created a dialogue that looks at these questions as serious
policy questions, not just as questions for advocacy groups."

"We have to place the issues in an international context," she continued. "The
movement of people is emerging as one of the critical global issues of our age.
It is based on huge deficiencies in human rights and deep economic
differentials."

When she takes over the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Ms. Meissner
will be charged with, in President Clinton's words, insuring that the United
States does not "lose control of our borders." Ms. Meissner indicated in the
interview that she would take a broad approach to that mission.

Treating the Cause

"Today, people have information and cheap transportation," she said. "They know
what their circumstances are and can act on it. We can't deal with this only as
an enforcement issue in the United States. We have to look at it worldwide and
attack the conditions that create the desperation."

Her nomination won immediate praise from those involved with immigration issues.

Doris Marie Meissner was born in Milwaukee on Nov. 3, 1941. Her mother, Hertha
Borst, was 10 when she came to this country from Berlin, Germany, and her
father, Fred Borst, was 22 when he arrived from Stuttgart, Germany.

Her father was a tool and die maker and her mother a bookkeeper. "My parents
were definitely the pivotal influences on my life," Ms. Meissner said. "They
were both very hard-working and absolutely devoted to their kids. Our family
life was very much devoted to our German heritage.

"Good parents make kids feel special and are proud of what they do. When you
grow up in that kind of an environment, you're ready to meet the world when that
time comes."

She attended public schools and met her husband, Charles Meissner, now an
economist with the World Bank, when they were both undergraduates at the
University of Wisconsin in Madison. She stayed to earn a master's degree in
political science when he served in the Army during the Vietnam War.

Drawn to Politics

While studying, she recalled, "I wanted to get involved in a campaign, some kind
of political activity." She managed the campaign of Midge Miller, an opponent of
the war who defeated a 20-year incumbent for a place in the state Legislature.

After the election, her husband returned from Vietnam and the couple moved to
Washington. Ms. Miller provided the connection that enabled Ms. Meissner to
become a founding member of the National Women's Political Caucus and its
executive director in 1971.

In that post, she assailed both national political parties for not providing
campaign financing for women. She devoted special effort to the
successfulcampaign of Patricia Schroeder for a House seat.

Ms. Meissner won a White House fellowship in 1973 and went to work at the
Justice Department, where she later specialized in immigration issues, becoming
Acting Commissioner in 1981 and Executive Associate Commissioner from 1982 to
1985.

Ms. Meissner and her husband have two children: Christine, 28, a high school
teacher, and Andrew, 24, a film student.

She inherited her parents' sense of family. "The most important thing is to be
there for the people who are closest to you: family and close friends," she
said. "And it's important to do work that is satisfying to you and useful to the
world. If I can do those two things, I'm satisfied."

NAME: Doris Marie Meissner

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doris Marie Meissner (Reuters)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Tollbooths for the Persecuted

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 366 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service wants potential refugees from
political persecution to pay a $130 fee and wait five months before receiving
work permits. That would make the United States the only country to charge a
filing fee for political asylum. It is a poor, hasty response to what is,
essentially, a management problem at a chronically understaffed agency.

Last year, more than 150,000 people from 154 countries sought sanctuary here
because of a "well-founded fear of persecution" in their homelands. Most
applicants came from countries such as Haiti, Guatemala, El Salvador, China,
Cuba, the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union.

Their claims are heard by 150 specially trained asylum officers at the I.N.S.
But there are not enough asylum officers to handle the flow; the current backlog
of cases is 360,000. Under present rules, any applicant can receive a work
permit within 60 days unless it can be determined that the claim is frivolous.
Officials fear that many claimants use the asylum process simply to gain
permission to work. Indeed, 65 percent of asylum-seekers have already been in
the U.S. an average of six months before they apply to be refugees. Officials
also fear an increase in spurious claims.

At present, the cost of financing the asylum procedure, which averages $616 per
applicant, is subsidized by a variety of application fees paid by the large pool
of immigrants who are not refugees. The fee the I.N.S. proposes to charge each
asylum applicant could be waived for inability to pay. But deciding eligibility
for a waiver adds another level of review for an agency that is already
overburdened -- and has a reputation for not treating all claims fairly.

The best way to deter false asylum claims is to guarantee a fair and speedy
process. That means more hearing officers. The Administration wants to double
the current total in this fiscal year, though it is not clear where the funding,
up to $40 million, will come from. Officials estimate the proposed new fees
would bring in $11 million.

The U.S. traditionally welcomes genuine refugees for humanitarian reasons. It
should not demean them by charging an entry fee.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 25, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Illegal Chinese Immigrants Are Smuggled Into San Francisco

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; National Desk

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: About 200 Chinese immigrants aboard the Pai Chang, a
Honduran-registered cargo ship, were smuggled into San Francisco Bay and dropped
at a pier 300 yards from the Golden Gate Bridge after midnight Sunday. Coast
Guard caught the ship as it fled to international waters. Coast Guard officials
detained 169 of the refugees, who left China on March 30. A group was detained
at Fort Point. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 26, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Teaneck Killings Laid to Chinese Gang's Power Struggle

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 817 words

DATELINE: TEANECK, N.J., May 25


The authorities said today that a power struggle within a Chinese gang in
Manhattan was responsible for the violence that spilled over into a placid,
upper-middle-class suburban neighborhood here Monday night, leading to the fatal
shooting of four gang members and the wounding of a fifth.

Some law enforcement officials theorized that the struggle in the Fuk Ching gang
was rooted in its lucrative criminal specialty -- smuggling illegal immigrants
into the United States from Fujian Province in southern China. Officials say the
immigrants are often charged $30,000 to $35,000 by gang members and then forced
to pay off that debt through legitimate work or by slipping into crime,
including extortion and prostitution.

In what some officials said was retaliation for the murder of two other gang
members in Manhattan on Jan. 8, several men invaded a rented two-story brick
home here with guns and knives shortly after 7 P.M. on Monday and systematically
shot and stabbed four men in the house and and a fifth after he fled outside.

Captured in Blood-Smeared Clothing

Later Monday night five men in blood-smeared clothing were captured in a van the
police had stopped near the George Washington Bridge, about five miles east of
Teaneck. This afternoon the five were ordered held in bail of $1 million each by
a New Jersey Superior Court Judge, Sybil R. Moses, in Hackensack.

The violence Monday night was totally alien to Somerset Road, a secluded world
of lush green lawns and shrubs, towering oaks at curbside and backyard swing
sets, sandboxes and gardens.

Law-enforcement officials said they believed that a fight over the proceeds from
immigrant smuggling led to a split in the gang and the Jan. 8 murder of two
members of a breakaway element in the Fuk Ching gang, whose name is an
abbreviation of 'Fukien Chingnian,' which means 'young Fujianese.'
Law-enforcement officials say the Fuk Ching gang, made up entirely of immigrants
from Fujian Province, is not as well known as the Ghost Shadows or Born to Kill,
but has grown in recent years together with the smuggling of human cargo. A vast
majority of illegal immigrants from China come from Fujian Province and speak a
Fujianese dialect of Chinese.

Officials speculated that the five gang members murdered or wounded here Monday
night had remained faithful to the reputed head of Fuk Ching, identified as Guo
Liang Chi, and were hunted down by allies of the two slain gang members. On
March 7, the New York City police arrested two suspects in those deaths.

One of those slain Monday, identified as Guo Liang Wang, 25 years old, was
described by officials as a younger brother of the gang leader, who is thought
to have gone to China after the January killings.

Guo Liang Wang ran from the rented home at 1326 Somerset Road with a gunman in
pursuit and was fatally wounded on a newly-mowed lawn on Wendel Place, around
the corner from the house, officials said.

'Shot Execution Style'

Two of the victims were bound and gagged with duct tape and shot in the head
several times in the basement of the home, said John F. Fahy, the Bergen County
Prosecutor, who is in charge of the investigation. "Both were shot execution
style at point-blank range," Mr. Fahy said.

One of them died at 3:30 this afternoon at Hackensack Medical Center, said a
hospital spokeswoman, Anne Loughran. The other was in critical condition.
Neither has been identified yet, Ms. Loughran said.

Another victim, who is also unidentified, was found dead of gunshot and stab
wounds just inside the front door of the house, Mr. Fahy said. The body of
another was found, also stabbed and shot, in a hallway off a first-floor
bedroom. He was identified as Sheng Li Guang, 38, of 125 East Broadway in lower
Manhattan.

One resident of Somerset Road said she saw the van in which the gunmen later
fled, parked, with its engine running, on Somerset about 7 P.M. She said two men
left the house and drove off in the van. About 20 minutes later, the woman said,
she heard glass shattering at the home and noticed a man fleeing and another
chasing him with a gun.

'Pow! Pow! Pow!'

"He just bolted from the front door and ran after him shooting -- Pow!  Pow!
Pow!" the woman said.

Although each of the five men taken before Judge Moses in Hackensack was charged
with murder, authorities did not make clear which, if any of them, had actually
fired a weapon at the home on Somerset.

Only one suspect, Jeffrey Zhu, 20, said he spoke English. He said he was
naturalized as an American citizen three or four years ago and worked at a
deliveryman in Boston.

An interpreter translated the bail proceedings for the four other suspects:
identified as Cho Lee Lin, 35; Yun Lin, 22, of New York; Xin Dan Lin, 32, of
Hackensack, and Chao Lin Feng, 20, of 5416 New Utrecht Avenue, Brooklyn.

Judge Moses entered not-guilty pleas for all five.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Four people were fatally shot and one wounded at 1326 Somerset
Road in Teaneck, N.J., on Monday night. The authorities said a power struggle
within the Fuk Ching Chinese gang in Manhattan was responsible for the violence.
Investigators stood at the crime scene yesterday. (John Sotomayor/The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK: The Overview -- 7 Die as Crowded Immigrant Ship Grounds
Off Queens;
Chinese Aboard Are Seized for Illegal Entry

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1842 words


A tramp steamer smuggling hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants into New York
ran aground in moonlit darkness and a pounding surf off the Rockaway Peninsula
in Queens early yesterday, ending a 17,000-mile odyssey from the Far East in a
nightmare of panic, chaos, death and capture within sight of the golden door.

At least 7 people were killed and 16 were injured, officials said, as scores of
terrified refugees leaped into the sea and tried to swim and wade ashore from
the stricken 150-foot vessel, Golden Venture, her keel fast on a sandbar 200
yards off Jacob Riis Park.

By the end of a harrowing day, officials said, about 260 refugees, including two
dozen women, were in custody or accounted for, although as many as 25 were
apparently missing, either drowned or escaped; the rogue ship's 13 crewmen were
under arrest, and the vessel had been pushed ashore by the rising tide, leaving
her faded green, rusty hulk upright, a bizarre thing on a scenic beach of dunes
popular with New Yorkers on summer weekends.

Meantime, immigration authorities with interpreters of Mandarin and other
Chinese dialects were questioning the aliens, trying to piece together an
account of dreams and misadventure that began months ago in China and had
brought them two-thirds of the way around the world through hunger, filth, cold
and untold suffering toward a future that promised little more than indentured
servitude.

Latest Incident

The grounding of the Golden Venture, the latest and worst in many incidents in a
booming trade in human desperation, illuminated what immigration officials call
a rising tide of Chinese bound for America in ships controlled by criminals who
charge up to $35,000 a head and offer little in return but passage in an unsafe,
dirty ship and a bit of advice: request political asylum if you are caught.

The ship ran aground about 2 A.M. after it nosed up off the deserted beaches of
Rockaway Peninsula, officials said. It was unclear if the grounding was
deliberate or accidental, but for many passengers, it touched off panic.

Witnesses told of scenes out of Joseph Conrad: the ship suddenly dead in the
water, hull plates groaning as if coming apart, cries from the bridge, feet
running on decks and ladders, figures rushing up out of holds and hatches to the
rails, the lights of a city representing freedom twinkling like beacons in the
distance, then the silhouettes of people diving into the sea.

"They were jumping off, climbing down the ladders, trying to swim," said Michael
Penna, a firefighter who was among the first rescuers on the scene. "But the
current kept pulling them toward the jetties. They were knocking against the
jetties. They didn't have much clothes on, just short-sleeved shirts and pants.
Hypothermia set in. By the time they got to shore, they couldn't even stand."

At least five refugees drowned, their bodies washing ashore. Two others died of
heart attacks. Survivors -- some clad in ragged suits, others in jeans or only
underwear, and many clutching plastic bags of belongings -- came out of the
thundering, 53-degree surf shivering with cold. Some waded or crawled in, some
rode plastic-jug floats. Purple with exposure, they collapsed on the beach.

No S.O.S. had been sounded by the ship, but two United States Park Service
police officers patrolling the Gateway National Recreation Area spotted the
freighter under the full moon and alerted the Coast Guard.

As police officers, firefighters and emergency medical personnel arrived on the
beach, gray and blue blankets were thrown around the huddled refugees, most of
them young men who sat quietly, looking miserable, listening to the surf.

More than a score of people were taken to five hospitals in Brooklyn and Queens
for treatment of injuries, exposure and exhaustion. While some were admitted,
others were released after treatment, including four who apparently escaped
after being treated at The Brookdale Hospital Medical Center.

It was unclear how many escaped, but immigration authorities said seven were
picked up last night in Queens and searches continued for bodies in the water
and escapees in the city.

Coast Guard and police boats went alongside the Golden Venture and took off more
than 100 refugees and the 13 crew members, all Indonesian nationals. Officials
said the crew, including the 45-year-old captain, Amir H. Lumban Tobing, would
be charged with smuggling and other Federal offenses, and the ship was to be
confiscated.

In Detention

The refugees not moved to hospitals were taken to two buildings at Fort Tilden,
next to Riis Park, where immigration authorities and police detectives using
interpreters questioned and processed them. William S. Slattery, the New York
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said they would
be deported if they could not prove that their presence in the United States was
justified.

Later, the refugees were handcuffed and taken to detention centers in lower
Manhattan. Many of them, and those in contact with them, wore surgical masks
against tuberculosis infection, but most seemed healthy despite an ordeal that
had taken them across the South China Sea and the Indian and Atlantic oceans.

Police Officer Peter Moy, who interviewed 30 to 40 refugees, recalled: "They
said they had been in the boat two to four months. They were kept down in the
hold. It was dark. They were fed only once a day or every two days. They said
they were treated poorly and never took showers. One person said he got a meal
once a day, but it was very little -- just rice."

Detective Ming Li, another interpreter, said sanitation was horrendous, with one
toilet for all the passengers. Others said they were packed into the hold and
rarely allowed on the deck of a ship that had once carried cargos from bicycles
to mattresses, but had been refitted, probably in Hong Kong, to carry human
beings.

The refugees, 16 to 44 years old, said they were from several provinces, mostly
from Fujian, but also Shanghai. There were unconfirmed reports of other
nationalities aboard. Most said they had been at sea almost constantly for up to
112 days. Some said passengers had been picked up in Thailand; others spoke of a
refueling and repair stop in Africa, perhaps the Ivory Coast.

Payment Arrangements

One crew member said he had been paid in advance for the trip, but he appeared
frightened when pressed about the vessel's mission and said he never knew it was
smuggling people. Some refugees said they paid $5,000 to $60,000 raised by their
families to become the vanguard for others who would be brought later.

Detective Li said some told him they had promised to pay $35,000 but had paid as
little as $3,000. Many, he said, refused to give details, fearing they would be
sent back if they said the wrong thing. Others said they paid no money but had
promised to work here and give up to 80 percent of their earnings for passage.

Immigration officials said they had not been able to trace the ownership of the
Golden Venture, which lists San Lorenzo as her home port. Her Honduran registry
is a convenience, experts say, to avoid rigorous inspections that go with
registry in the principal seafaring nations.

24th Vessel

Mr. Slattery said the Golden Venture was the 24th vessel intercepted with human
cargo bound for this country since August 1991. Other immigration officials said
1,800 illegal Chinese aliens had been caught since last January, that 37 women
aboard one ship last year had been raped by the crew and that 160 Chinese died
when a smuggler's boat sank last fall off Long Beach, Calif.

But these known incidents are believed to be only a fraction of the problem's
dimensions. Some experts say the tide of illegal Chinese immigrants to America
has grown to 10,000 to 30,000 a year, swollen by the lure of jobs here and hard
times and oppression at home, including a government population-control policy
that limits each family to one child.

Operating from bases in Hong Kong or Taiwan, the smugglers hire recruiters,
sailors, corrupt officials, drivers, document forgers, employment agents and
thugs in an illicit, $3-billion-a-year business. Experts say as many as 50 ships
have been refitted for illegal refugees from China. While immigration
authorities are on the lookout for such ships, it is all but impossible to track
their comings and goings, experts say.

John Zheng, an interpreter of Mandarin and Fujian dialects who has studied the
problem of Chinese immigrants, said that the refugees who reach New York usually
go to one of about 20 employment agencies in Chinatown, which most often arrange
jobs for them in Chinese restaurants as kitchen help or takeout deliverers.

They often work for years to pay their passage and send money home to bring
relatives here to work in what amounts to a vicious cycle. Police Commissioner
Raymond W. Kelly said investigators believe that Asian gangs in New York often
finance the smugglers.

The journey that began in China last February ended in the early morning hours
yesterday. It was not clear where the crew intended to land its cargo, but it
was probably not far from dropping anchor when it ran aground, officials said.

It was nearly low tide when the ship, a decrepit tub with flaking white paint on
her stern bridge and rust streaks above and below the Plimsol line, ran aground,
her prow plowing onto a sandbar about six feet under water some 200 yards off
the Rockaway Peninsula.

Fear Takes Over

There was apparently little danger, officials said later, but it may have
appeared to many of the refugees that the vessel or their trip had suddenly been
placed in jeopardy.

Seas were running six feet high at the time, the Coast Guard said, and while the
freighter remained upright, heavy waves pounded her hull and crashed on the
beach. Some of the refugees, within sight of the lights of New York after a
global voyage, began to scream.

A 27-year-old refugee from Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian, said he and many
others panicked. "We completely didn't know what was happening," the man, who
was too afraid to give his name, told The Associated Press. "I felt like I died
a little inside."

He and others leaped from the deck, 15 or 20 feet above the water, and some hit
bottom and were injured. Others climbed down ladders that had been thrown over
the side, jumped in from near the waterline and swam or waded to shore.

Some fell exhausted on the beach, but others may have escaped. Local residents
said wet, disoriented people had knocked on their doors offering money to use
the telephone.

With helicopters, boats, rafts and mobile vans, the police, Coast Guard,
firefighters, medical aides and other rescuers swarmed to the scene. Triage
units were set up on the beach for emergency treatment.

Later, Officer Moy said the journey and its end had been traumatic, but he
added: "The way they feel, it's better being smuggled over here in the kind of
conditions they were in than staying there. They were just headed for America."


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the Chinese refugees from a ship that grounded off the
Rockaway Peninsula in Queens awaiting transportation to a detention center. (pg.
A1); Coast Guard officials surrounding the freighter Golden Venture as some of
the passengers climbed down the ship's ladders. (Paul J. DeMaria for The New
York Times); Emergency workers treating some of the passengers who swam ashore.
(V & P News Service) (pg. B4)

Maps/Chart show locations of the following:

Golden Venture runs aground at 2 A.M. on Sunday.

Fort Tilden: Using interpreters, authorities question and process the refugees.

Floyd Bennett Field: Captain and crew, who officials said would be charged with
smuggling, are questioned and held here.

Immigration and Naturalization Detention Center: Refugees, who said they paid as
much as $60,000 for the voyage, are held here. (pg. B4)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK: The Immigrants -- 7 Die as Crowded Immigrant Ship Grounds
Off Queens;
One Failed Voyage Illustrates Flow of Chinese Immigration

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1313 words


The freighter that ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula in Queens yesterday was
part of a recent surge of illegal Chinese immigrants who have made their way to
Hawaii, California, Guatemala, Florida and now, for what is believed to be the
first time by boat, to the shores of New York.

Why the immigrants chose a tortuous route that took them around the Horn of
Africa and north again into the cold waters of the North Atlantic is not clear,
but officials said that a highly organized network of smugglers around the world
probably provided assistance in stops along the way.

The increase in the number of boats with Chinese intercepted in American waters
in recent months has coincided with a sudden, sharp increase in the number of
Chinese who turn up at immigration offices to seek asylum, officials said
yesterday.

"The number of Chinese that have applied for asylum has grown astronomically in
the last few months," said Gregg A. Beyer, director of asylum at Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Washington. "These are people who are already in the
United States," he said. "We don't know how or when they got here, if they got
in legally or if they were smuggled in."

At the immigration service's Newark office, which handles cases for New York,
New Jersey and New England, 2,853 Chinese applied for political asylum in April
and May, more than the total number of Chinese applicants in all of 1992, Mr.
Beyer said. In October, he said, 186 Chinese applied for asylum in Newark; in
May the number was 1,560.

Since August 1991, boatloads of Chinese immigrants have made their way to the
United States, most of them in search of economic opportunities that do not
exist at home, officials said. Twenty-four boats have been intercepted by the
American authorities, who have sharply increased their efforts to monitor the
vessels.

Last year, American officials traced the journey of a ship carrying 151 Chinese
from China to Mauritius in the Indian Ocean and then to Cape Town, from where
she sailed across the South Atlantic to Brazil and, finally, to Haiti, where the
passengers came ashore before dawn on a Sunday.

The boat that reached Queens yesterday, the Golden Venture, was the first
carrying smuggled Chinese immigrants to be intercepted in the New York area.

"What we are witnessing is the continuation of a deplorable trend," said William
S. Slattery, the director of the New York office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

If the immigrants who came ashore in Queens follow a pattern that has become
common, they will seek asylum in the United States by claiming that they face
persecution in their homeland because of China's population-control policies,
which generally restrict couples to only one child, immigration officials said.

But if the immigrants had succeeded in sneaking into the country, as they
apparently planned to do, they might have chosen another increasingly common
tactic for winning a legal place in the United States -- a false claim that they
had been here since the 1989 uprising in Tiananmen Square, the officials said.
Government policy allows those people to remain in the country.

Like the group yesterday, a large number of Chinese immigrants come from the
Fujian Province, a coastal region opposite Taiwan.

Immigration and police officials said the immigrants typically agree to pay
smugglers tens of thousands of dollars for the trip and end up in a system of
indentured servitude operated by Chinese gangs. Law-enforcement officials said
many illegal Chinese aliens worked off their debts in Chinese restaurants in New
York and New Jersey.

Two weeks ago, 57 illegal Chinese immigrants were found in a warehouse in Jersey
City, where they were being held by smugglers as they waited for relatives to
come up with the $25,000 to $30,000 per person demanded for their release. Some
told the police they had entered the United States on foot from Mexico; others
said they entered by airplane, and some said they came by ship, but were unable
or unwilling to say where the ship had dropped them off.

Effect of a Crackdown

Immigration officials said yesterday that most Chinese immigrants eventually
make their way to the New York area, because of the large and long-established
Chinese population in the area and because New York is the base of strong
Chinese gangs that control the smuggling operations.

But the officials could not explain why the group yesterday was entering the
country on the East rather than the West Coast, which would have spared them
thousands of miles of travel.

A crackdown by immigration officials in the West may have prompted a switch to
East Coast ports, said Theodore Ruthizer, the president of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association. After several shiploads of refugees arrived on
the West Coast in 1991 and 1992, immigration officials there began detaining
passengers for long periods instead of releasing them to await hearings, Mr.
Ruthizer said, and smuggling traffic has fallen off.

For those on the Golden Venture, the odyssey to a home in the United States
stands a good chance of success, in part because Chinese refugees's applications
for political asylum are treated more favorably than others, immigration lawyers
say.

About 80 percent of Chinese refugees who formally apply for asylum are granted
it, compared to about 35 percent overall, according to Arthur C. Helton,
director of the Refugee Project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New
York City.

Immigration lawyers attribute that favorable treatment to the Government's
inclination -- particularly strong since China's government crushed a
pro-democracy movement in 1989 -- to give credence to claims of political
persecution in China.

And under a 1989 order by President Bush, immigration agents must give special
consideration to those who claim to be fleeing China's harsh population control
policies, which sometimes lead to compulsory sterilization and abortion.

Government officials and immigration lawyers said that many Chinese refugees are
well versed in what they must say to gain asylum. "We get 18-year-olds who've
never been married who tell us they want to have two kids and that's why they're
here," said Ralph Thomas, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Washington.

But the immigrants' odyssey may continue for months or even years.  Officials
said yesterday that there was a backlog of 18 months or longer for processing
asylum claims.

The people who were aboard the ship are to be processed over the next few days
at an I.N.S. center on Varick Street in Manhattan, then transferred to detention
centers.

On orders from the White House, the immigration service will keep the Rockaway
Beach group in detention centers outside of New York City -- in Pennsylvania,
Maryland and Texas -- as their cases make their way through the system, Mr.
Thomas said.

"When we have large groups arriving, we feel we have to make a response,
otherwise we're inviting others to try this same thing," he said.

Typically, asylum seekers are freed pending the outcome of their cases. Many
then disappear. In the last six months, Mr. Thomas said, 30 percent of the
aliens claiming to be seeking asylum in the New York area failed to appear for
their court dates.

The crew of the Golden Venture could face Federal charges of alien smuggling and
conspiracy, with a maximum penalty of five years in prison for each undocumented
alien aboard the ship. Prosecutors said they had not yet decided whether any
crew member would be charged.

In the New York metropolitan area, the I.N.S. handles more than 20,000 asylum
applications a year -- and thousands more cases of people who say they intend to
seek asylum, but disappear without formally applying -- but it has room to hold
only 100 people until their applications are approved or denied.


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Immigrants waiting in a temporary detention hall wore masks to
prevent the spread of infectious diseases. (Edward Keating/The New York Times)
(pg. B5)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK;
Immigrant Dream of Plenty Turns to Misery and Regret

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words


It took $27,000 of borrowed money, a harrowing 52-day voyage by sea eating
rotten rice and two days by van and on foot from Mexico before Hua Zhen was
finally smuggled into the United States from China. That was six weeks ago,
before another ship bulging with passengers like him ran aground off of New York
City, when Mr. Hua was still flush with hope.

Already, gloom has consumed Mr. Hua, who would give only the nickname his
friends call him. He is homesick, deeply in debt, and still in pursuit of work
while he lives with relatives in New Jersey. At best, he hopes to land a job as
a dishwasher in a New York restaurant and maybe a bunk to call his own above the
kitchen. Not until years in the future, once his passage is repaid, does he
imagine he will see his wife and 10-year-old son again.

'A Modern-Day Slave Trade'

"I regret coming," he said. "I feel like I was tricked. Everybody said life in
America is wonderful, that everyone has a big car and a big house."

The swarms of illegal Chinese immigrants being smuggled into the United States
on the promise of a bountiful life all too often find themselves trapped in a
bleak existence under the watchful eyes of criminals ready to resort to
brutality against those who don't pay their full fare. The hundreds of Chinese
who washed up on the shores of Queens early Sunday morning, following a
horrifying journey aboard a rusting freighter called the Golden Venture, might
do well to learn from the experiences of predecessors like Mr. Hua.

"This is a modern-day slave trade," said Joann Lum, the program director at the
Chinese Staff and Workers Association in New York, which organizes Chinese
workers.

Nonetheless, in the last two years, there has been a sharp rise in illegal
immigration as ever-larger boatloads of Chinese are brought in by smugglers
believed tied to organized crime. Several dozen ships have been intercepted at
various American ports. Just Wednesday, two fishing boats loaded with about 300
illegal Chinese immigrants were seized south of San Francisco.

A shot at the American dream does not come cheap. According to immigrants who
have made the odyssey, the "snakeheads" or smugglers usually charge $20,000 to
$50,000 for a one-way trip, forged passport and some counsel on what to do if
caught. Pregnant women must pay more. One woman who refused to give her name
said that smugglers with the best reputation for transporting people safely
command the highest fees.

Many immigrants sell their belongings to make a down payment, usually at least
$1,500. The smugglers used to require at least 80 percent of the fare in
advance, but immigrants said that competition has gotten so torrid that 10 to 15
percent down is now acceptable. The more relatives that one has in America to
guarantee the fare, the less the deposit required. Once the immigrants land,
those who cannot pay off the balance at once may be saddled with installment
payments over several years.

The voyage itself is arduous; inevitably, some die on the way.

Hua Zhen boarded a freighter outside Fuzhou, the capital of Fujian province,
where many of the group that landed in New York also originated. Mr. Hua was one
of 220 immigrants accompanied by six "enforcers" working for the smugglers. One
enforcer repeatedly threatened to kill Mr. Hua if his fare was not paid in full
on arrival. "He told me, 'It costs $1,000 to kill someone in America,' " Mr. Hua
said. " 'Your life is cheap.' "

The passengers were fed two bowls of rice a day, along with some cooked
vegetables. The rice was sometimes rotten.

At one point, their ship's engine quit and the freighter drifted for eight days
before another vessel brought spare parts.

Landed in Mexico

After 52 days, the immigrants landed in Northern Mexico, where they were loaded
into vans in groups of 25 and driven close to the California border. Overnight,
they crossed on foot to vans waiting on the other side. But United States Border
Patrol agents shot at them, Mr. Hua said, shattering the rear window of one van,
and they were captured.

Mr. Hua was held by the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service for
a day. But he said that he recited what the smugglers had coached him to say --
that he would kill himself if returned to China -- and was released.

His passage has been paid by 12 relatives, so his debt is to them and not the
smugglers. As a result, he is on his own finding work.

Immigrants who owe smugglers are often steered by them into low-paying,
bottom-rung jobs in restaurants or the garment industry, Ms. Lum said, and much
of their income for years must go to repaying the fare. The pay, she said, is as
low as $2 an hour, less than half of the minimum wage of $4.25. It is not
unusual for the immigrants to work 12 to 14 hours a day, seven days a week. Some
of the young women are cajoled into accepting jobs as prostitutes in massage
parlors.

A young woman smuggled in from Fujian, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said
she came to the United States three years ago after posting a deposit of $1,500.
She was introduced to clothing wholesalers and became a street peddler. Each
month, she said, she pays $500, half of her earnings, to a man in Chinatown whom
she said is the collector for many who have been smuggled into this country.

Some other newly arrived immigrants become the equivalent of indentured
servants, living in quarters provided by their employer. Often, they are
squeezed into shabby rooms, as many as 10 or 12 people together. They share cots
with other workers assigned to different shifts, immigration experts say. All
too often the housing is the dank basement or back room of the restaurant or
massage parlor where they work.

"Their dreams of America are really shattered," Ms. Lum said. "They did not
expect to be sucked into a life of slavery. Some say their lives are harder here
than in China."

And woe to anyone who falls behind in paying off his fare, for the smugglers
employ enforcers who beat laggards. Another common technique, law-enforcement
officials say, is for smugglers to abduct late payers until they are ransomed by
relatives; sometimes they are kept for weeks, then charged for room and board.
While the enforcers await payment, they typically torture the debtors.

Two-and-a-half years ago, the New York police rescued a 30-year-old restaurant
worker, Kim Wah Fong, who had fallen behind on his passage fee and had been
kidnapped at gunpoint. He was imprisoned in a Bronx apartment building where the
police said he was beaten with a hammer. Several of his ribs were cracked.

After his rescue, the police arrested 13 illegal immigrants who the authorities
described as enforcers for a Hong Kong smuggling organization.

A few weeks before that incident, the police had rescued two other illegal
immigrants who had been severely beaten and burned while being held in a house
in Queens.

Some of the illegal immigrants turn to crime when legitimate jobs dry up. "Some
of the people I know from the ship are working for gangs now," said a
19-year-old man who spoke on condition of anonymity. "If you seem tough enough,
they'll take you and teach you how to use a gun."

But few tell friends and relatives back in China about their travails.  Indeed,
when Hua Zhen telephoned home two weeks ago, he lied and said that everything
was fine. He said the truth would have caused his family to worry. "And they
probably wouldn't believe me either," he added.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

CAPTAIN AND CREW CHARGED IN VOYAGE OF CHINESE TO U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1421 words


The captain and crew members of the decrepit freighter that ran aground off
Queens were charged yesterday with smuggling illegal Chinese immigrants as
Federal prosecutors described a bizarre voyage in which the agent of a crime
boss in China seized control of the ship and locked the captain below deck.

The long, sweaty voyage began in January, according to a complaint filed in
Federal District Court in Brooklyn yesterday, as speedboats loaded the first of
nearly 300 immigrants on the freighter in the South China Sea off Bangkok, later
joined by more who boarded off Kenya. It ended when the captain and crew twice
failed to make rendezvous with smaller ships in the Atlantic to carry the
immigrants to America, leading to a mutiny.

A Desperate Struggle

An immigrant on board, hired by a crime boss to transport the human cargo, then
took the freighter to New York, where the ship ran hard aground off the Rockaway
Peninsula early Sunday as he tried to drop off the passengers, the Federal
complaint said. With their goal in sight, the startled immigrants rushed to the
deck and leaped into the sea, beginning a desperate, frantic struggle through
the pounding surf, in which eight of them died.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington said yesterday that it
would seek to deny admission to the 276 immigrants who were seized after they
came ashore. Officials said the immigrants would remain in custody until their
claims for asylum in the United States are considered by Federal immigration
judges, a process that could take nearly two years.

New Policy Reflected

The detention of the illegal immigrants reflected the new policy enacted by the
Clinton Administration last month after the United States Coast Guard seized a
ship carrying 193 Chinese immigrants as she sailed toward San Diego Harbor. In
Washington, debate over possible changes in immigration rules to curb the flow
of illegal immigrants took on added urgency in the wake of the tragedy in New
York. [News analysis, page B2.]

As immigration officials in New York began moving the immigrants through the
process of denying them entry, 110 of the immigrants were transferred by bus
yesterday to a jail in York County, Pa. The others, who remain in custody in
Manhattan, are expected to be taken to other detention centers in Maryland and
Virginia.

The immigration service said yesterday that it now believed that it had
accounted for everyone aboard the ship, the Golden Venture: 309 in all,
including 296 passengers and 13 crew members. The Coast Guard and the police
ended their search efforts, concluding that no one else was lost.

In all, eight passengers died from drowning or hypothermia, and five others
remained hospitalized late yesterday, including one of the crew members charged
in the complaint, said Thomas H. Durand, a spokesman for the immigration
service. Six others have evidently disappeared somewhere in the city, including
four who received treatment at Brookdale Medical Center in Brooklyn and,
inexplicably, were allowed to leave.

Immigration officials confiscated the freighter, which a salvage tug freed from
the shore late Sunday and towed to the Military Ocean Terminal in Bayonne, N.J.,
where officials say the ship will remain at least until the investigation is
completed.

The complaint against the captain, 10 of the other 12 crewmen and the immigrant
evidently acting as an enforcer, filed by the United States Attorney in
Brooklyn, gave new details of the effort to smuggle hundreds of people halfway
around the world and into the nation's largest city, an effort marked by
duplicity, miscues at sea and finally insurrection.

The voyage began in January, when the captain, Amir Humuntal Lumban Tobing, a
Burmese, took command of the rusting 150-foot freighter, then with Panamanian
registry and the name Tong Sern. A month later, off Thailand's coast, near
Bangkok, about 90 Chinese immigrants boarded the ship, and the owner, identified
only as Mr. Wong, transferred the registry to Honduras and changed the name to
the Golden Venture, the complaint said.

Several crew members, including the captain, knew they were taking immigrants to
the United States, the complaint said, but others said they joined the crew
after being told the ship was carrying cigarettes.

As the freighter lurched away from Thailand, the immigrants cheered, "America,
America," one crew member said. Only then did it become clear the cargo was
human.

From the South China Sea, the ship steamed to Singapore and then Mombasa, Kenya,
where 199 more Chinese boarded. It was not clear how those immigrants reached
East Africa.

After three months at sea, during which the immigrants were forced to subsist on
a meal a day and little water, the ship neared the Eastern Seaboard, where on or
about May 17 the captain, Mr. Tobing, hoped to rendezvous with smaller boats to
pick up the passengers and take them ashore.

The other craft never came, and the captain moved the ship to a second,
prearranged rendezvous. When those boats did not arrive, the immigrant
identified as the agent of the Chinese boss, Kin Sin Lee, seized Mr. Tobing and
took over the ship.

Ran Aground on a Sandbar

Mr. Lee told investigators that "loo sigh," or "the boss," hired him to look
after those on the ship in exchange for a discount in the $25,000 to $35,000
each the immigrants had to pay for the voyage, the complaint said.

Under his orders now, the ship steamed to New York and finally ran aground on a
sandbar about 200 yards from the dunes of Fort Tilden, not far from the beaches
of Jacob Riis Park.

Mr. Lee was the only Chinese immigrant aboard charged yesterday with the
smuggling. Including the captain, 13 crew members were aboard -- identified as 6
Indonesians and 7 Burmese -- but only the captain and 10 crewmen were charged.

All the defendants were charged with conspiring to bring the immigrants into the
country illegally.

In a packed Federal courtroom in Brooklyn, the defendants appeared with
court-appointed lawyers, looking confused and distant. Some spoke quietly to one
another. One ate potato chips and a brownie as he waited.

Their lawyers argued before Judge Marilyn Gao that the Federal case was weak,
the charges unsubstantiated, since crew members simply worked on the ship for
$150 a month and were not part of a conspiracy.

Michael Hurwitz, the lawyer for Mr. Lee, said his client was not an enforcer for
the smugglers but rather another of the immigrants hoping to begin a new life in
America.

The smuggling operation followed a pattern that has become increasingly familiar
and nettlesome for the Federal Government in recent years, according to
prosecutors familiar with such operations.

'A Lot More Profitable'

"The trend has been to bring more and more people, and the use of large boats is
just in the last two years," said Luke Rettler, the chief of the Asian Gang Unit
in the District Attorney's office in Manhattan. "There are so many people
willing to pay money and they're willing to pay so much more, that it's become a
lot more profitable to bring them over hundreds at a time."

While prosecutors have successfully brought cases against smugglers, it is
unlikely the leaders of the operations will ever be caught, Mr. Rettler said.
"The people in charge are well insulated," he said.

Early yesterday, 110 of the illegal immigrants boarded buses for the county jail
in Pennsylvania, dressed in clothes evidently provided by immigration officials.
Through last evening, officials continued to process the immigrants at Federal
Plaza in Manhattan, shuttling them from the detention center on Varick Street,
where 176 remained in custody, the spokesman, Mr. Durand, said.

Officials told each of the immigrants that they faced exclusion from the United
States, and immigration judges ordered them to appear at a later date, when most
are expected to seek asylum, as they were coached by the smugglers, the
authorities said.

Immigrant rights groups, including the New York Immigration Coalition and the
Center for Immigrant Rights, criticized the handling of the cases and officials'
tendency to dismiss the validity of claims to asylum.

"These individuals," said Margie McHugh, the coalition's executive director,
said, "will not be able to meaningfully pursue protections for which they might
be eligible if they are sent to detention centers in the middle of nowhere,
where no one speaks their language or has an interest in representing them."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Illegal Chinese immigrants in handcuffs boarding buses to a
Pennsylvania detention center yesterday. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
(pg. A1); The personal belongings of the illegal Chinese immigrants were strewn
throughout the hold of the freighter Golden Venture. (Chris O'Neil/United States
Coast Guard) (pg. B2)

Map/Diagram: "THE JOURNEY: The Course of the Golden Venture"

Officials were still trying yesterday to piece together the route of the
freighter that ran aground with hundreds of Chinese refugees. This chronologyis
based on a deposition from Kyle Hutchins, a special agent of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, that was made public with the indictments of the crew.

1. FEBRUARY: BANGKOK
About ninety Chinese emigrants board a Panama-registered ship, the Tong Sern.
The crew is told that they are to ferry the Chinese to the United States. Its
name changed to the Golden Venture, the ship sails under the Honduran flag to
Singapore. As the ship departs the Chinese were shouting "America, America."

2. MARCH 28: MOMBASA
About 200 more Chinese scramble aboard. Capt. Amir Humuntal Lumban Tobing tells
the engine greaser, Porourus David Makakekung, that the ship is being forced to
go to America.

3. MAY 17: IN THE ATLANTIC
A planned rendezvous with a ship that some crew members are told will take the
Chinese to America does not occur. Captain Tobing and the crew head for another
location "with the hope that they would be able to unload the aliens closer to
the U.S." No other ship shows up. Tying up Captain Tobin, Kin Sin Lee takes
command and orders the ship to New York.

4. JUNE 6: NEW YORK
The ship runs aground; nearly 300 Chinese abandon ship. Eight drown or die of
exposure.

(pg. B2)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

The Golden Venture, Plus 100,000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 736 words


The four-month nightmare voyage of the Golden Venture ended Sunday morning when
the tramp freighter dumped its starving and frightened cargo of nearly 300
Chinese immigrants into frigid waters off one of New York City's most popular
public beaches. Six passengers died from drowning or exposure, several had to be
hospitalized and the remainder were sent to detention centers to await Federal
hearings.

But for the estimated 100,000 illegal Chinese immigrants who arrive each year,
mostly to New York, the nightmare typically goes on and on. The $3,000 down
payment they make to "snakehead" smugglers before departure -- several years'
earnings for a typical Chinese -- covers barely a tenth of what they must
ultimately pay to travel huddled below deck for months without adequate food or
sanitation. The remaining money must be paid off through years of indentured
servitude -- virtual slavery -- in Chinese restaurants and sweatshops.

For the immigrants, it's a cruel deception of the hopes that lured them from
China in expectation of a "golden land" of easy affluence. For New York area law
enforcement officials it's an explosive problem, as the Asian gangs and
freelance criminals profiting from this human traffic grow increasingly rich,
brazen and violent. And for Washington it's another warning -- after the Haitian
fiasco -- that America's ad hoc asylum policies have slipped out of whack with
post-cold-war realities.

Given the probable size of recent illegal Chinese immigration, the numbers of
indentured laborers in the New York area must be huge indeed, certainly reaching
the tens of thousands. City, state and Federal labor inspectors must make
greater efforts to uncover scandalous labor conditions now masked by the terror
of victimized workers, language barriers and an insular Chinatown culture.
Specifically that will require recruitment and training efforts aimed at
increasing the number of inspectors and law enforcement agents who speak the
Chinese dialects used by most of the new immigrants.

Cracking down on the gangs and immigrant brokers will be especially difficult,
given their decentralized nature. But it must be done. Almost weekly now, new
reports surface of immigrants held hostage in warehouses. And last month's
deadly shootout in Teaneck shows the escalating potential for tragedy.
Trafficking in humans is now said to offer easier profits than trafficking in
drugs, and the penalties faced by those caught are much lighter, an anomaly that
needs to be corrected.

Finally, well-intended Federal asylum policies have unwittingly encouraged
widespread illegal Chinese immigration. Four years ago George Bush ordered that
asylum be granted to those who left China to escape Beijing's harsh rule of one
child per family. That claim could plausibly be made by hundreds of millions of
Chinese who would not otherwise be considered political refugees.

The vast majority, perhaps 95 percent, of illegal immigrants from China enter
the U.S. undetected and never see a Federal immigration officer. But of those
who do, virtually all now claim asylum, and an astonishing 80 percent of those
claims are approved, many times the percentage for other national groups. When
word of the lenient new American policy got back to provincial China, departures
for the U.S. began to surge dramatically. By some indicators there has been a
tenfold increase in just the past two years.

One answer on the Federal level would be to subject these asylum claims based on
the single-child policy to stricter standards of proof that actual persecution
might take place. Another would be to expedite the hearings while preserving due
process. Asylum claims now take about 18 months to evaluate, during which many
claimants simply disappear into the general population. Washington could also
work with Chinese authorities to publicize the indentured servitude and bleak
prospects facing illegals in the United States, thus deflating the false hopes
that fuel the boom in smuggling of human cargo.

It's unrealistic to pretend that illegal immigration from China, or anywhere
else, can be completely halted. Economic incentives at both ends of the traffic
are just too powerful. But it should be possible to reduce it to the more
manageable levels that prevailed before 1991. The alternative is not just
tolerating more Golden Ventures. It's tolerating slavery, in New York, in 1993.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 10, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. to Release 158 Haitian Detainees

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 9


The Clinton Administration said today that it would comply with a Federal court
ruling and release 158 Haitian political refugees, most of them infected with
the virus that causes AIDS, who have been held at the American naval base in
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

The decision means the detainees will be admitted into the United States in the
next few days, with most of them expected to head to south Florida.

During the 1992 presidential campaign, Bill Clinton repeatedly promised to close
the detention camp, but once in office he continued the Bush Administration
policy of barring the infected refugees. Lately he has been bitterly heckled at
public appearances -- and sometimes nearly drowned out -- by protesters
demanding that he close down what they have called an "AIDS concentration camp"
and lift the immigration ban. But he resisted doing so until the court ruled on
Tuesday.

The White House spokeswoman, Dee Dee Myers, said that the Administration had
decided not to seek a stay of the ruling but that the Justice Department would
review the case. She said the Administration had not excluded the possibility of
an appeal to defend certain judicial principles.

"Obviously we thought under the circumstances it was prudent to continue doing
what we were doing," she said, "which was reviewing the cases one at a time, and
paroling people in on a needs basis. But we will comply with the judge's order."

Ms. Myers said a "resettlement task force" assembled by the Justice Department's
Community Relations Service, the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the
Department of Health and Human Services and some non-government organizations
that deal with refugees would help care for the Haitians when they arrived in
the United States.

The refugees, among 40,000 people who have fled Haiti since a military coup
ousted a democratically elected President in September 1991, have been held for
nearly 20 months in a shantytown, encircled by a razor wire fence at the
Guantanamo Bay base.

The 158 were among those refugees who were deemed eligible for political asylum
after they were stopped at sea by American naval vessels as they were trying to
flee Haiti.

Fears of Persecution

Immigration officials who interviewed them said they had well-founded fears of
persecution, a ground for political asylum. But instead of being brought to the
United States for further immigration hearings, they were diverted to the
Guantanamo Bay base and placed in the detention area. While in the center, most
of the 158 refugees tested positive for H.I.V., or were relatives of those who
did.

The group includes 143 H.I.V.-positive adults, two H.I.V.-negative adults, and
13 minors who have not been tested. For nearly 20 months, they were held without
legal representation or adequate medical care.

The Bush and Clinton administrations asserted that their entry to the United
States could be barred on the grounds of their being infected with H.I.V., even
though they qualified for political asylum. That assertion was challenged in
court in March 1992 by a coalition of public interest groups.

Judge Sterling Johnson Jr. of the United States District Court in Brooklyn wrote
in his 53-page ruling on the case: "Although the defendants euphemistically
refer to its Guantanamo operation as a 'humanitarian camp,' the facts disclose
that it is nothing more than an H.I.V. prison camp presenting potential public
health risks to the Haitians held there. The Haitians' plight is a tragedy of
immense proportion, and their continued detainment is totally unacceptable to
this court."

'Victory Was Long Overdue'

Suzanne Shende of the Center for Constitutional Rights, which represented the
refugees, said "the victory was long overdue for people who were suffering for
more than 20 months."

She said "that any appeal, if it happens, would be about future policy and
future cases -- not these 158."

A Justice Department spokesman, Carl Stern, said officials decided that "the
best balance of the legal, practical and humanitarian concerns was to comply
with the order, and reserve our right to appeal.

"There are aspects of Judge Johnson's decision that we would find it difficult
to live with in two regards," he said.

First, the spokesman said, "would be the judge's very expansive view of the
rights of aliens, who came into American hands purely out of our own
humanitarian impulses to rescue them at sea."

"Second would be our concern about the judge's expansive view of the authority
of courts to limit the Attorney General's exercise of her discretionary
authority," Mr. Stern said. The judge "said she abused her discretionary
authority to admit aliens under a special exemption, but the whole point is that
it is discretionary."

The Justice Department spokesman said the first group of Haitians would be
brought to the United States in the next four or five days, and that the entire
process would take about a week. Sixteen of the 158 refugees were admitted this
morning under the Attorney General's discretion.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 12, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Chinese Immigrants Tell of Darwinian Voyage

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1801 words

DATELINE: BETHLEHEM, Pa., June 11


As Chen Fuxing tells it, the Golden Venture's odyssey to America was a trial of
desperation and fear. The lack of food, water, light and space broke the 300
travelers down and a kind of Darwinian order took shape. The weaker ones, who
typically got the last scraps of a daily meal of rice and water, would argue and
beg for more, with disputes erupting into brawls among the passengers. People
fell sick, but without any medicine others would feel helpless and leave them
alone.

Mr. Chen's voyage to America began nearly two years ago. He set out from a rural
village in southeastern China, where busy meant a 10-hour day on the family's
rice farm. He trekked through the mountains of Myanmar and Thailand, slept in an
airless cabin the size of a small bathroom with three other people on one ship,
and eventually became a virtual prisoner on the Golden Venture, which the
authorities say was used to transport Chinese immigrants who paid as much as
$35,000 each for the voyage to America.

Unwelcome Darkness

Mr. Chen, a 30-year-old farmer and sometime factory worker, saw a darkness on
the freighter that he never connected with his quest for America. "A lot of
fighting was going on," he said, and shook his head. "I think it changed many
people, being on that ship."

Mr. Chen and Yi Powen, another refugee, described their journeys, mainly through
interpreters, during a news conference and in separate interviews at the
maximum-security Lehigh County Prison and at the medium-security Salisbury
Interim Correctional Facility in Bethlehem. Wearing prison blues and matching
sneakers -- manufactured in China -- Mr. Chen at times tried out the halting
English he had taught himself before leaving China. Asked what he hoped to
accomplish in America, he said, "I'll take the Fifth."

Of 60 refugees whom prison officials asked to speak at a press conference, the
two came forward in the hope that their families in China would see them on
television and know they were not among the half-dozen people who died when the
ship ran aground off Queens last Sunday. Their accounts offered an insight into
the hardships that many of the other passengers suffered during their ordeal at
sea.

Mr. Yi, who is 30 and the father of two sons, occasionally forced a smile at the
roomful of reporters, though at times he appeared almost in pain, tense and
touching his stomach. A tea leaf farmer, Mr. Yi was one of fewer than 100
refugees who traveled on the Golden Venture from Thailand to America, stopping
to pick up Mr. Chen and about 200 other refugees from their gathering point in
Mombasa in Kenya.

This is the story of their flight.

Chen Fuxing left for America on Oct. 22, 1991, his older brother having borrowed
$25,000 from a loan shark to pay for Mr. Chen's chance at a new life. He took
nothing but the clothes he wore and $1,000 his brother gave him for the
17,000-mile journey. At the Myanmar border, he met up with a group of six
refugees and a guide, crossing over the mountains and into Thailand in a
monthlong hike.

"Luckily, it didn't rain," he said. Along the way, some in his group fell ill,
and Mr. Chen learned a cardinal rule of his unfolding voyage: See only to
yourself. None of the other travelers would stop to help those who couldn't keep
up, but all eight made it through the mountains. "We knew of other groups where
people died, but we all managed," he said.

In Thailand, the group was brought to a warehouse -- they did not know where in
the country it was -- and locked up with other refugees waiting for a boat. They
waited more than six months for the Najd II, a passenger ship registered in
Saudi Arabia. Nearly 300 Chinese bound for America climbed aboard the Najd II in
August 1992, ferried to the ship on speedboats leaving from the coast near
Bangkok.

The passengers were assigned four to a cabin, largely as they boarded, Mr. Chen
said. Some of the rooms were passable, but in some the air hung still and stale.
The cabins had no toilets. The entire ship had only three toilets for the
passengers.

The ship's crew would give the passengers one meal a day -- usually rice, with
rare additions of sardines or vegetables, and barely enough potable water for
each person. They would leave it up to the passengers or the smugglers to dole
out the portions. Despite the sense of fear, arguments quickly erupted.

Usually, people would stand on line for the food, but that meant those who could
grab more in the beginning left little for those behind them. Debates over how
to distribute the food quickly turned into arguments, which flared into fights.

It was never clear how it was decided which passengers would distribute the food
and set the rules.

"Probably, before they left China, they were appointed by the smugglers," Mr.
Chen said. "And some probably emerged once we were on the ship. They just came
out so naturally, and people just followed their authority."

"It's not so strange to me, since this is our way in China," he added. "We
follow authority."

Each passenger received a bottle of water a day to clean themselves. But as the
voyage wore on, the bottles came one every other day, and eventually, less
frequently. The passengers began to smell and wilt from hunger. Without
ventilation, the odors in the cramped rooms grew more difficult to bear. In
steadily growing clusters, people began leaving their cabins -- giving up what
limited privacy they had there -- and sleeping in an open area.

Saw No Abuse

Mr. Chen said he did not see any of the sexual abuse of women that Immigration
and Naturalization Service officials described in a briefing Thursday. Nor did
he see whether any of the smugglers or their henchmen carried weapons on the
Najd II.

But somehow, the passengers gained the clear impression there was friction
between the smugglers and the ship's crew, and came to believe the Najd II would
never make it to America. They did not see any open fights, he said, but had a
deep sense of foreboding.

At the time, the Najd II was floating off Mauritius, where the government had
refused to grant it permission to dock. It refueled and steamed toward Mombasa,
where some 200 or so stranded Chinese waited in hotels for the smugglers to
patch together the final leg of their journey.

Around the time Mr. Chen and the others were waiting in Mombasa, where they were
free to swim in the ocean, walk the seaside port and go to the movies, the
smugglers finally came up with the ship that would haul them to America, a
rusting freighter with an unlikely name: the Golden Venture. If the Najd II was
unbearable for some, the Golden Venture was hell for all, a floating prison.

A Fearsome Tempest

Mr. Yi was one of 90 or so passengers who boarded the Golden Venture from boats
off Bangkok in February. The ship passed first through Singapore and then by the
Cape of Good Hope south of Africa, where it ran into a tempest that Mr. Yi
feared would kill everyone on board.

Wind gales and waves as tall as 50 feet hurled the ship from side to side. The
captain said he had never seen such a storm and doubted they would survive.
Experienced sailors among the passengers said the same. Panic spread through the
cargo hold.

"Some people were crying and people were praying to their different gods, to the
Christian god, to Buddha and to Pu Sa," the Taoist goddess worshipped in
southern China, Mr. Yi said.

But the ship made it safely through the storm, a sign Mr. Yi, and undoubtedly
many other passengers, saw as an omen that they were meant to make it to
America.

It was in Kenya that all the passengers who would land on the Rockaway sandbar
Saturday night finally boarded the Golden Venture. When they first entered, the
smugglers' representatives assigned them a small sleeping space in the cargo
hold and a blanket. They were confined to this space for the entire trip, an
area roughly the size of a coffin, the two men said. It was six inches on either
side to the next body.

"We were ordered that this is the place we sleep and this is the place we can
walk around in," Mr. Chen said. "When we needed to go to the bathroom, we could
go, but we had to come straight back to our places."

But for the money and telephone numbers some of them carried, there were few
belongings. Their greatest trial was boredom. One passenger, the police said,
played a handheld computer game, punching the buttons long after the batteries
wore out.

With only one toilet for the entire ship, the men soon resorted to relieving
themselves on the upper deck. But there was no running water, and unlike the
Najd II, the Golden Venture did not supply occasional bottles of water for
personal hygiene.

Not Allowed on Deck

On the last day or two of the trip, as the ship floated within sight of the East
Coast, the men were not allowed to go on deck, but had to relieve themselves in
the cargo hold, Mr. Chen said. That produced the nauseating stench immigration
officials and police described after boarding the ship in New York.

The men knew nothing of missed rendezvous with smaller boats that should have
brought them to the coast, or of the mutiny aboard the Golden Venture that
Federal officials described in court earlier this week. They knew only that at
some point Saturday night, the smugglers spread the word: "We've arrived! Jump!"

"Most of us were pretty weak because of seasickness," said Mr. Yi, who said he
was among the last to leave, jumping only as he saw that American agents were
swarming toward the ship. "We were told as long as we set foot on American soil,
we would be able to stay in this country."

The Lehigh County facilities have divided the 60 men the Immigration and
Naturalization Service sent here into two groups, with those suspected of being
linked to the smugglers placed in the maximum security prison. Dale A. Meisel,
the warden at the Salisbury jail, said the distinctions were made on the basis
of the amount of money the refugees were carrying, their body fat and length of
the men's hair, since long hair is taken as a sign of power. English speakers
were also sent into the maximum-security to "inhibit any sort of group action,"
he said.

Without the presumed henchmen, he said, the men are relaxing and speaking more
freely.

Neither Mr. Chen nor Mr. Yi knew of a statement from Chinese officials that
those refugees returned would be subject to "re-education," but they know their
country's brutal recent history. "If we have to go back, we definitely will be
punished," Mr. Yi said.

"It's taken us so much pain to get here," Mr. Chen added. "All we heard was
Americans really champion human rights. We were under the impression we would
get to stay."

The translator looked at Mr. Chen and said: "Somehow, in his mind, he's
convinced you won't send him back to hell."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chen Fuxing in Federal custody in Pennsylvania, where he told
of squalor and conflict on a voyage to the United States (pg. 1); Chinese
immigrants from the Golden Venture taking their hour of exercise yesterday
morning at a detention center in Bethlehem, Pa. (pg. 24) (Michelle V. Agins/The
New York Times)

Map "Journey of Chen Fuxing" shows route taken by Chinese immigrant to reach
Golden Venture and US. (pg. 24)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 14, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Unlicensed Peddlers, Unfettered Dreams

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2423 words


At 11 A.M. on a recent morning, Louis Ndlovu King of South Africa dragged a
duffel bag packed with purses to the sidewalk at the corner of Broadway and
Duane Street. Minutes later, Luis and Marcelo Yamberlo, father and son, arrived
laden with hand-woven sweaters and bracelets from Ecuador, their native land.
Following them, M. Hu, recently smuggled in from China, wheeled a cart neatly
stacked with imitation Montblanc pens to the same spot.

Within 30 minutes, the sidewalks in front of the Jacob K. Javits Federal
Building were throbbing with the sales pitches of immigrant vendors illegally
hawking "Black Is Beautiful" T-shirts, Wayne Newton cassettes, "Pinocchio"
videos, batteries, mood rings, sunglasses, flowered panties and butane lighters.

These immigrants, most of them illegal, have dared to create a makeshift
marketplace directly in front of the Immigration and Naturalization Service
headquarters at 26 Federal Plaza in lower Manhattan. Speaking mother tongues as
diverse as Quechua, Wolof and Chinese, they have developed a camaraderie that
ignores the fact that many sell the same wares. Together they play cat-and-mouse
games with the police. And together they slough off public antagonism with the
firm belief that they are earning an honest living.

'Better Than Welfare, No?'

"I love to work!" exclaimed Fatima Fadigh, a Guinean vendor who crouched by her
display of T-shirts crooning melodic songs in the Mandingo language. "Give me
working papers, and I'll do anything else. I'll sweep the sidewalk. I'll wash
the cars. But without them -- this is better than welfare, no?"

About 10,000 vendors work the streets illegally in New York, becoming the most
visible and controversial representatives of the city's growing underground
economy. Over the last decade, as the recession eliminated jobs and immigration
reached peak levels, their numbers multiplied exponentially. The start-up cost
was low, and working papers were unnecessary.

Public debate about their livelihood heated up recently as Mayor David N.
Dinkins half-heartedly announced a crackdown on peddlers and their suppliers.
The Mayor said he was not against sidewalk vending but recognized that it had
become "a thorn in the side of small businesses and legal vendors."

Pushcart Nostalgia Is Strained

Mr. Dinkins's ambivalence highlighted the schism between many New Yorkers'
heartfelt image of the city as an immigrant haven and others' fear that it is
turning into an outpost of the third world. On the one hand, the immigrant
vendors elicit nostalgia about pushcarts and an admiration for self-starters; on
the other, they bring out a recession-worn frustration with tax evaders who
clutter sidewalks and undercut the sales of legitimate merchants.

Aida Di Puma, a florist in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, says she routinely throws
away scores of rotting bouquets because her customers find it cheaper and more
convenient to shop on the streets. Illegal flower vendors began fanning through
her neighborhood in the late 1980's.

"Like 50 percent of my business has gone down the toilet because of them," Ms.
Di Puma said. "I like to live in harmony with the world, but it's rotten when
someone undersells me, especially when they don't pay taxes, they don't pay rent
and they're not citizens."

The People
As Different As Homelands

For the vendors themselves, there is no debate about their primary motivation:
economic survival. But they are a diverse lot, and their backgrounds, attitudes
and aspirations are as different as the individual immigrants at 26 Federal
Plaza.

Mr. King, for instance, speaks fluent English. A recent immigrant from Soweto,
he nonetheless wears the baggy jeans, Malcolm X shirt and ever-present Walkman
of a native-born city kid. A smooth salesman ("Miss, you need a beautiful bag to
match your beautiful smile"), Mr. King, 29, has a green card. But he started
selling before he got it. And he continues because the money is good and the
hours flexible enough to meld with his schedule as a pre-medical student at
Medgar Evers College.

Luis Yamberlo, on the other hand, appears more obviously transplanted from a
different world, the highlands of Ecuador. An Otavalo Indian, he wears a black
felt hat above the single pigtail that snakes down his back. His selling style
is alert but silent.

Bilingual in Spanish and Quechua, Mr. Yamberlo, 40, was a high school teacher
until he unexpectedly received the United States tourist visa he had long
sought. Quitting his $100-a-month job, he packed a change of clothing and
hundreds of sweaters, ponchos and bags from the famous marketplace in Otavalo.
He had no doubt that he would be starting out as a street vendor, just like the
Otovalan immigrants who had preceded him and settled in Corona, Queens.

Ms. Hu, who requested that her first name not be used, also imagined that she
would begin as a peddler. That was the rumor back home in Zhejiang Province,
when she first contacted the smuggler who arranged her $20,000 trip to the
United States. A 30-year-old illegal immigrant, Ms. Hu speaks a provincial
dialect of Chinese and only a few critical words of English: the prices of her
wares. If she spoke more English, she said, she would never sell on the streets.

She is occasionally robbed, and she barely makes enough money to feed herself,
she said. But she endured a six-week journey here by a series of airplanes that
took her through several countries, "some hot weather and some cold." So, she
said, she can endure the life of a street vendor, which is still better than
what she left behind: unemployment and a dead-end future.

Dinkins Was a Peddler

New York politicians have long harbored a soft spot for immigrant vendors.
Former Mayor Edward I. Koch frequently reminded New Yorkers that his father had
been a peddler. And Mr. Dinkins, in announcing the new enforcement plan,
revealed that he too had been a vendor as a youth in Harlem.

"Oh, my goodness, when I heard Mayor Dinkins say that, I didn't feel ashamed to
be a vendor no more," Mr. King said, grinning. "I felt like a part of history."

New York City first started licensing peddlers in the late 1890's. By 1914, the
pushcart situation was considered to be out of control, clogging the crowded
streets of the Lower East Side. The number of pushcart licenses was frozen at
6,000, and illegal peddling abounded.

Nearly 80 years later, with street peddling revived, the city issues far fewer
licenses. It awards 853 licenses for general peddlers, a cap arbitrarily set
when the City Council froze the number of existing licenses in 1979. Food
peddlers, most of whom are licensed, number about 3,000. War veterans,
booksellers and purveyors of religious artifacts do not need a license.

Mayor Dinkins's new plan added 46 police officers to enforce peddling rules and
spread them throughout the city's boroughs. That nearly tripled the previous
effort, a 25-officer task force that covered only Manhattan south of 59th
Street. (The peddlers referred to the Manhattan officers as "Alpha," because
they used to patrol in vans that said "Alpha Moving Company" on the side.) At
the same time, the plan aimed to establish vendor marts to keep peddlers off
congested streets.

Legislation pending in the City Council proposes doubling the number of licensed
peddlers, as unlicensed vendors deprive the city of $25 million annually in
sales taxes, the state's Department of Finance estimates. But the bill does not
appear likely to gain much support. And even if more licenses were granted, most
immigrant vendors would be ineligible: a green card, or citizenship, is
required.

The Routine
Friday Is Payday And Police Day

In front of 26 Federal Plaza, the rhythm of the retail day is syncopated. During
the lethargic off hours, some African vendors go down the street to a mosque to
pray; the Chinese peddlers dust their sunglasses displays with feather brushes.
During the lunchtime and after-work frenzy, the accented calls of "Check it out"
rise even above the din of traffic.

Encounters with the police -- most likely on Fridays, payday for the area's
office workers -- force the routine to allow improvisation.

About noon on a recent weekday, without apparent provocation, the vendors at
Broadway and Duane bent down, tied the scarves holding their wares into hasty
bundles and fled down the street. They had spied the approaching three-wheeled
police scooter of the beat cop, Officer Jeff Granowski.

Abdul Ba, a Senegalese vendor, took his time packing up T-shirts. Officer
Granowski approached, calling him Moussa, which is a common Muslim name but not
Mr. Ba's.

"If I see any other Senegal here the next time I come back, it's you -- King
Moussa -- that I arrest," Officer Granowski said.

When he returned, Mr. Ba had not resumed selling, but nearly all the others had.
Officer Granowski was angry.

Officer Throws Cassettes

"You out to play games?" he shouted. The officer picked up one vendor's folding
table and tossed it by the legs into the street. As the vendor was backing away,
the officer grabbed handfuls of cassettes and hurled them at him.

A crowd instantly gathered. "That's no way to do people," Sharona Jones, one
passer-by, said to the officer. "I'm going to report you."

Officer Granowski shouted his badge number -- "28287" -- for those squinting to
read it.

"They think this is like a peddler-Rodney King tangent," he said. "But I came
over here earlier and told the peddlers to get out. The second time it was like
spitting in my face. A lot of cops will just handcuff, if they don't scamper
fast enough. I try to be a nice guy. But you got to be a little aggressive."

The vendors understood. Officer Granowski rarely confiscates their goods, so
they are willing to tolerate some bluster. Besides, it was easy enough to just
move temporarily to the other side of Broadway, which belongs to a different
precinct.

The police officer says he rarely confiscates the vendors' goods because he is
now required to arrest the vendors as well. And then the paperwork keeps him off
the streets for more hours than it is worth.

"It is better, what they're doing, than going out and robbing," Officer
Granowski said. "If no merchants complained, I would just turn my back."

The Money
Better Than Pay From Taxable Job

The African vendors at 26 Federal Plaza come from Senegal, Mali, Guinea and
Niger. They do not know one another by name, using brother, buddy or frere
instead. They specialize in cassettes, sunglasses, T-shirts, handbags and the
occasional cap or bag made from African cloth. They buy even the African goods
from Korean wholesalers in and around the Garment District: $5 for a handbag
they sell for $20, $1 for a cassette that sells for $5. Some store their wares
in the back of a Chinese restaurant across the street for $2 a day. Some room
together in hotels in midtown and Harlem.

On weekends, all the vendors, who work seven days a week, move to Canal Street.
Once in a while, they travel together in vans to flea markets across the
country, which the men from Niger call "going into the bush."

The Chinese vendors primarily offer lacy underwear and costume jewelry. Ms. Hu
buys $100 in inventory, three to four times a week, from an Orthodox Jewish
wholesaler on Delancey Street. The wholesaler also stores her goods at night for
$100 a month. Ms. Hu says she earns about $40 profit on every $100 in goods
sold. On a good day, she makes $60.

Peddlers' earnings vary with the weather and the economy. Mr. King sold 10
handbags during a recent lunch hour, for a profit of $150. The next day during
lunch, however, it rained and he received next to nothing. During the winter, he
was forced to get a temporary job as a part-time loan officer in a bank, he
said. At $9 an hour, 20 hours a week, he made less money than he does working
part-time on the street, he said.

"The taxes really kill you," he said.

Counterfeit Goods Assailed

Most vendors who were interviewed consider themselves desperate and wily, not
criminal. Some, however, criticize their colleagues who sell counterfeit bags
and watches. These are the vendors considered most troublesome by the police,
merchants and name-brand companies that have lobbied in Albany to make selling
counterfeit goods a felony.

"They give us all a bad name," one vendor from Mali said. "They lie to the
customers."

The police say that the African vendors are the most organized. "We have people
arrested: they've been in the country two days and already have a New York State
picture I. D.,a check-cashing I. D. and they're in business," said Lieut. J. J.
Johnson, head of the peddler task force.

Academic experts say that the African vendors are not so much a syndicate as an
efficient ethnic network. "I think it's a bit far-fetched to think that there is
some sort of Senegalese mafia," said John Gaber, who wrote a doctoral
dissertation for Columbia University on New York street vendors.

Several African vendors said in interviews that they arrived at Kennedy
International Airport having no idea where to go until taxi drivers took them to
a hotel where other Africans lived. There, vendors quickly took them under wing,
in the same way that illegal Irish immigrants often find themselves on a
construction site within days of landing in the United States.

Temporary First Step

Most immigrant vendors interviewed see their peddling as temporary, an
occupation of last resort, the first step into the American marketplace. They
know that with time, savings and legalization, other vendors have left their
peddling to become wholesalers, cabdrivers, waiters and legitimate merchants.

Mr. Yamberlo puts his hopes for the future on his 18-year-old son, Marcelo, whom
he hopes to send on to college and a more secure future. Ms. Hu, whose husband
works in a garment shop, is surrounded by other Chinese vendors and garment
workers; she knows no role models on which to base her dreams. For the moment,
she aims only to earn enough money to pay back the relatives and loan sharks in
China who financed her trip here.

Mr. King, on the other hand, is a big dreamer who sees vending only as
"something minor, a blessing that is putting me through school."

"Once I finish school, I'm not going to do it," he said. "I'll be armed with my
degree. In New York, if you are determined, nobody can undermine you. If a mayor
could be vendor, a vendor could be mayor. Everything is possible."

Next: Exploitation of workers.


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground -- Second of six articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vendors, many of them immigrants, selling their wares along
Canal Street near Broadway. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. A1); Playing
cat-and-mouse with the authorities: Many immigrants have created a makeshift
marketplace outside the immigration office in lower Manhattan. (Edward
Keating/The New York Times); Weekend fare: Canal Street is home to vendors
Saturdays and Sundays. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) (pg. B2)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 15, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground -- Third of six articles.;
Few Emigres Can Fight Mistreatment on the Job

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2556 words


Last August, when K. Shah worked at a construction site renovating brownstones
in Brooklyn, he complained to his bosses that he was suffering shooting pains in
his arm. The illegal Pakistani immigrant, assigned to heave 70-pound concrete
blocks from the sidewalk to the fifth floor using a rudimentary block and
tackle, was told to keep quiet and keep working.

Two days later, Mr. Shah, 37, suffered a heart attack on the job. It felt like
his chest was on fire, he said. Reluctantly, after warning him not to tell
hospital officials where he worked, his bosses allowed him to leave and take a
subway to North Central Bronx Hospital. Two weeks later, he underwent bypass
surgery.

When Mr. Shah, who would not provide his first name because of fear of
deportation, was released from the hospital, he requested his $1,500 in back
wages. To date, his bosses have refused to pay.

Condemned to Exploitation

Although the city's growing underground economy provides jobs and opportunities
for some, it condemns an increasing number of immigrants to a life of
ever-worsening exploitation. Pressed by unscrupulous employers, they labor under
conditions that most Americans, aware of their rights, would not tolerate.

Experts believe that this exploitation results from ruthless cost-cutting during
the recession, rising anti-immigrant sentiment and a new immigration law that
unintentionally gives employers more power over their immigrant workers.

While no statistics measure immigrants' exploitation, advocates insist that the
mistreatment is growing more and more routine.

"I am seeing consistent, recurring abuse that worries me," said Jennifer Gordon,
a lawyer who runs a work-place project at the Central American Refugee Center in
Hempstead, L.I. "It is in the nature of these underground work places, which
tend to be very small. The employers feel that nobody sees them, that their
workers are invisible, and that they have license to act as they feel without
repercussion."

The degree of mistreatment varies, from the recent, extreme case of the
anguished Chinese immigrants kept in indentured servitude in a locked warehouse
in New Jersey to the perpetual frustrations of the many immigrant workers denied
proper pay.

But most commonly, immigrants working underground, typically as garment workers,
restaurant busboys and day laborers, are denied minimum wage and overtime or are
kept waiting months for their wages. They are frequently dismissed, and
occasionally turned over to immigration officials, for complaining or contacting
union organizers. And because illegal construction workers receive little
training, and underground factory workers get paltry protection from the
chemicals they handle, immigrants are frequently sickened or maimed on the job.

"What happened to this Pakistani man is any day in the week in New York, an
absolute working nightmare," said Brian O'Dwyer, a lawyer and immigration
specialist who represents Mr. Shah. "Have human lives and human labor become so
cheap and expendable that we can now operate a construction firm like a third
world company in the middle of New York?"

Generally, those legal and illegal immigrants who get exploited do not speak
English, possess little education and few skills, and do not understand their
considerable rights as underground workers. Many accept mistreatment as the
price they pay for coming to America.

However, labor laws protect illegal as well as legal immigrants, underground and
mainstream workers. Anyone can file wage claims and press abuse charges with
local district attorneys, and their immigration status remains confidential.

Still, immigrant workers are reluctant to speak up. The Federal and state Labor
Departments collected more than $7.7 million in unpaid wages for 11,000 workers
in New York City last year. But the authorities consider that a "dent" in the
amount owed, most of which was never reported, said Mark Molisani, a spokesman
for the New York State department. And they believe that only a fraction went to
new immigrant workers, the least likely to file claims.

Many new immigrants are frightened to seek redress for their grievances because
they so often are threatened with deportation or dismissal. In fact, the threat
often comes from older, more established immigrants, since they control many of
the work places where newer immigrants find their first jobs -- like the
Brooklyn site where Mr. Shah worked for legal Pakistani immigrants.

Still, some immigrants, like Mr. Shah, Henry Yu, Antonio Bueno and the garment
workers at S.T.C. Knitwear in Queens, stand up for themselves. Theirs are four
typical examples of the warped dynamic between employers and their immigrant
workers that haunts underground work places across the city. The only thing
atypical is that they spoke out.

Construction Worker
Waging a War Over Back Wages

Mr. Shah, a former soldier in the Pakistani Army, spent his life savings and
then some -- $12,000 -- to pay a smuggler for a plane ticket and a tourist visa
to travel to the United States. His dream was to become legalized and join the
United States Army.

But with virtually no command of English and no working papers, Mr. Shah took
what he could find, construction jobs offered by contractors who spoke Urdu, his
language.

Last summer, Alpha Construction, an unincorporated company in the Bronx, hired
Mr. Shah and several other illegal Pakistani immigrants to rehabilitate a
city-owned brownstone on Stockholm Street in Bushwick, Brooklyn. They were
promised $8 an hour.

None of the men was happy with the primitive working conditions, but their
bosses warned them that any complaint would result in their eventual
deportation, Mr. Shah said.

A Will to Press On

"They said, 'We are holding green cards, so nobody will do anything to us,' "
Mr. Shah said.

After he recovered from surgery, Mr. Shah, penniless with hospital bills of
$50,000, sought to prove his former bosses wrong. He found a savvy Pakistani
immigrant who helped him contact the Center for Immigrant Rights, which referred
Mr. Shah to Mr. O'Dwyer, the lawyer. And in mid-April, a judge ordered Mr.
Shah's former bosses -- Mohammed Aftab and Boota Mohammed -- to pay $7,300 in
back wages to him and his fellow workers.

Leslie Maron, a lawyer for Mr. Aftab, said his client maintained that he did not
owe Mr. Shah and the others any money. But Mr. Mohammed said he and Mr. Aftab
were also victims of nonpayment. He said that Alpha Construction was never paid
by the construction company that subcontracted the work to them. He said that
they and their workers are owed about $65,000.

Whether Mr. Shah ever collects his due remains to be seen. Meanwhile,
immigration officials, who do not seek out the immigrant plaintiffs of lawsuits,
have not attempted to deport him. And Mr. Shah said his bad experience was not
enough to force him back to Pakistan voluntarily.

Like many disillusioned immigrants, Mr. Shah refuses to leave until he has at
least recuperated his initial investment -- and his pride.

Clothes Pressers
Conditions Cause Illness and Revolt

Four of the clothes pressers at S & T Cleaners in Long Island City were
concerned. By 8 P.M., the end of the work day, they usually felt giddy,
light-headed and nauseous. Their skin was dotted with water blisters.

Henry Yu, a legal immigrant from Hong Kong, and three co-workers asked the boss
of the commercial dry-cleaning company to improve the ventilation because the
chemicals used were backing up into the overheated plant. They also wanted the
steam pipe insulated because they worked crowded around it "like sardine fish,"
Mr. Yu said. At the least, they believed, they should be given information about
the chemicals to which they were being exposed.

For their concerns, they were dismissed.

Mr. Yu and the other pressers, with the help of the Chinese Staff and Workers
Association in Chinatown, filed two complaints with the Federal Occupational
Safety and Health Administration: one for their retaliatory firing, the other
for reportedly hazardous conditions.

An investigation of S & T is under way. The owner, William Shui, declined to
comment. And at the steamy plant in the Queens neighborhood of warehouses and
factories, he replaced Mr. Yu and the others with illegal immigrant workers, Mr.
Yu said.

Sweater Makers
Using I.N.S. Law Against Workers
 As a result of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, which requires
employers to check the immigration status of all employees, most bosses now know
who is legal and who is not. That knowledge gives heft to a club that employers
have long brandished over immigrant workers, the threat of reporting
insubordinates to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

What happened at S.T.C. Knitwear demonstrates how the new immigration law
provided a pivotal turning point in a confrontation that ended in losses for
both the company and the workers. Six S.T.C. workers and several union officials
gave this account. Michael Cooper, a lawyer for S.T.C., said his clients did not
want to comment.

At first S.T.C., was a model, non-union shop in an airy new complex in Long
Island City. The sweater factory paid its mostly Hispanic immigrant workers
minimum wage and overtime, afforded them medical benefits, holidays and vacation
days, and gave them two breaks a day, plus lunch.

"We had a family-like environment with no fear in our throats," said Cristina
Chavez, a Peruvian immigrant who trimmed the excess threads from sweaters and
packed them for shipment.

New Manager Brings Change

But when a new manager took over the company at the end of 1991, everything
changed.

Bit by bit, the owners -- who sold sweaters to Macy's, Caldor, Kmart, J. C.
Penney and Alexander Julian -- sought to take the shop underground. First, the
medical benefits went, then the vacations, then the holidays, then the work
breaks. The paychecks no longer bore stubs that indicated taxes were being
withheld.

And finally, on May 7, 1992, as the women sat before their knitting machines and
irons, the forewoman announced the institution of the "Korean work week," a
mandatory 49 hours with no overtime pay.

That was the last straw. After the meeting, most of the workers huddled, then
walked out. On the advice of a "colonizer," a union member placed in the factory
as a presser, about 30 S.T.C. workers took the subway to an office of the
International Ladies Garment Workers Union. Joseph Lombardo, a union official,
was impressed by their spirit and returned with them to the plant.

"I been doing this all my life and this is the gutsiest group of women I ever
met," Mr. Lombardo said.

The company manager, informed that S.T.C. would be picketed, told the union
representatives he had never approved the announced changes and promised to
treat the workers like family if they returned. They did, but the treatment was
anything but familial, they said.

Both Sides Lose

"We were barely allowed to talk to each other, and when the boss came by we were
supposed to salute him like a king," said Blanca Julian, an Ecuadorean.

In September, the union won an election to represent the workers at S.T.C., 36
to 10. A month later, on Oct. 19, the day before contract negotiations were set
to begin, immigration agents showed up at the shop at the request of the owner.
The names of 11 union advocates, illegal immigrants like most others at the
shop, were called. And 10 of the 11 were handcuffed to one another and taken
into custody. (Ms. Chavez hid under a table and escaped arrest.)

"They corralled us like animals, and we thought, well, we're going to the
airport, time to say goodbye to New York," said Montserrat Arias, a 20-year-old
Mexican immigrant.

But the workers were only taken to 26 Federal Plaza in Manhattan, and eventually
their deportation hearings were postponed until August 1994. I.N.S. officials,
embarrassed that they had been used by S.T.C., even gave the workers temporary
working papers until that time, a union official said.

As a result, five of the workers have since found steady work, Ms. Chavez is
studying English, and Ms. Julian is enrolled in "super sewer" classes at a
garment industry school. All the workers are contemplating their experience,
which both disillusioned them about their place in this country and gave them
faith in the system's willingness to undo wrongs.

As for the company, S.T.C. Knitwear closed shop in April, days before it was
supposed to sign a final union contract with the remaining immigrant workers.
The company eventually paid the immigrants apprehended by immigration officials
an undisclosed settlement.

Factory Worker
A Dream Deferred By Wage Dispute

Antonio Bueno, a 46-year-old teacher, had not come to the United States to stay.
A year ago, he traveled from his native Honduras for a vacation. But fellow
Hondurans, successfully squirreling away money that could buy them a nice little
house back home, convinced Mr. Bueno to try his luck.

A friend took him to the small factory, Minuteman Manufacturing Inc. on Long
Island, where she worked, and he began that day with an offer of $5 an hour for
threading screws and other machine work. In May 1992, Mr. Bueno said, he worked
virtually around the clock, enough hours to earn him $2,240. He was paid $1,000,
and promised more in subsequent months, he said.

In June, Mr. Bueno and the other workers were not paid anything, he said. The
others, who had worked there longer, quit in July. Mr. Bueno, promised pay at
the end of July, stayed on as the sole worker. He also moved into the factory at
the owner's suggestion. Mr. Bueno slept on the rug in his boss's office. He
could not go out at night because he did not know the code for the burglar
alarm, he said. The owner brought him food, and told him to think about his
unpaid wages as a savings plan, he said.

In December, eight months after his last paycheck, Mr. Bueno decided that he had
had enough, and he announced his intention to report his boss to the Government.
Mr. Bueno said his boss then threatened to report him to the immigration
service.

Lawsuits From Other Workers

Mr. Bueno sought counsel from a priest, who directed him to the Central American
Refugee Center in Hempstead. In late February, Jennifer Gordon, a lawyer based
there, filed claims with the state and Federal Labor Departments to recover
$12,573 in back wages for Mr. Bueno.

Mr. Bueno's boss, Steven Nicastro, said his former employee was a "pathological
liar" who was paid for every minute he worked. But four other former employees,
all Hispanic illegal immigrants, have filed or are preparing to file wage claims
or suit against Mr. Nicastro, demanding another $12,500 in back pay. They
confirmed Mr. Bueno's charges of systematic nonpayment, Ms. Gordon said.

Mr. Bueno, meanwhile, has lost faith in the feeble dream he had of making it in
the United States. His wife died on May 25, but he did not have enough money to
fly home for the funeral. Utterly defeated, he now plans, unlike Mr. Shah, to
give up on the United States and return to his children, he said.

"I came with money, I will leave without money," Mr. Bueno said. "So many of my
compatriots seem to have succeeded here, but I, I have failed."

NEXT: Going after tax cheats.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry Yu, a legal immigrant from Hong Kong who was dismissed
from his job at S & T Cleaners in Long Island City along with three co-workers
after complaining about working conditions, is shown on Catherine Street in
Chinatown. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times); Cristina Chavez, left, from
Peru, and Montserrat Arias, from Mexico, lost their jobs when they and
co-workers attempted to unionize S.T.C. Knitwear. (Angel Franco/The New York
Times); Antonio Bueno, who came from from Honduras a year ago, filed claims with
the state and Federal Labor Departments to recover $12,573 in back pay with the
help of the Central American Refugee Center in Hempstead, L.I., where he was
photographed. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times) (pg. B8)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Reform Has to Respect Human Rights;
Still Waiting

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


To the Editor:

Anyone who has had contact with the Immigration and Naturalization Service would
agree with Andrew Stephen in "Doctors, Spaghetti and My American Wife" (Op-Ed,
June 7) that something is drastically wrong. I too am a green card holder trying
to become a United States citizen.

I filled out the application that required me to swear, among other things, that
I never believed in the interests of Communism (those are the literal words) or
was a Nazi between 1933 and 1945. Last January, I was summoned to the Brooklyn
office of the agency to be informed that part of my file was in Manhattan, and
it would take three months for it to be sent to Brooklyn.

The estimate turned out to be wildly optimistic. I wait -- still part of the
huddled masses.

RONALD BLUMER
New York, June 7, 1993

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A 2d Asian Body Found Off Queens

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 210 words


The body of a man was found yesterday morning floating off Queens at Fort Tilden
Gateway Beach, a short distance from where another body was found on Monday, the
police said.

There was no immediate identification of either body, but both men were Asian
and the police said they believed the two had come from the Golden Venture,
which ran aground off the Rockaway Peninsula last week carrying about 300
illegal Chinese immigrants. The body found yesterday was floating a half-mile
west from where the ship went aground.

The badly decomposed body was discovered by a fisherman shortly before 8 A.M.
yesterday just off the beach near 169th Street and Rockaway Point Boulevard. The
man was wearing blue underwear and a blue striped shirt, the police said.

Federal officials said last week that they believed everyone on the ship had
been accounted for, including six people who died in the incident. If the two
bodies found this week were from the Golden Venture, that would increase the
death toll in the grounding to eight.

Officer Andrew McInnis, a police spokesman, said that the Medical Examiner's
office would make the final determination, but he added, "It would be accurate
to say that the police believe these two people are from that boat."

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Finding of 3d Body Raises More Questions About Ship

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 633 words


For the third time this week, the body of an Asian man believed to have been a
passenger on a stricken vessel smuggling illegal Chinese immigrants was found
yesterday morning floating off Fort Tilden Gateway Beach in Queens, authorities
said.

If the Medical Examiner's office determines that the three bodies were from the
ship, the Golden Venture, the death toll in the disaster would rise to nine. The
ship foundered off the Rockaway Peninsula on June 6 with about 300 illegal
Chinese immigrants aboard.

United States Coast Guard officials said the body found by a fisherman yesterday
morning had four bills of Kenyan currency taped around the waist. Many of the
immigrants on the Golden Venture had been picked up in Mombasa, Kenya.

Federal officials said last week that they believed everyone on the ship had
been accounted for, including six people whose bodies were recovered at the time
of the incident. Yesterday, a spokeswoman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service acknowledged that there was never a complete list of all the passengers,
and that more bodies could reappear in the coming days.

"We may never know exactly how many people were aboard that ship," said the
spokeswoman, Rosemary LaGuardia. She added that investigators never recovered
the ship's manifest, a listing of all passengers that all ships are required to
carry.

Meanwhile, the United States Coast Guard station in Far Rockaway increased boat
patrols around the area to as much as three times a day because of the
possibility that more bodies might reappear.

"We hope we don't find any more," said Paul Brochu, the officer of the day at
the Coast Guard station. "But we can't be sure."

Found by Fisherman

The bodies of the three men, who were not identified, were discovered one
quarter of a mile west from where the Golden Venture ran aground, the police
said.

A fisherman aboard a motor boat discovered the decomposed body of the third man,
who was wearing a green T-shirt and brown shorts, just before 7 A.M. and
contacted the Coast Guard by radio. The body was turned over to the Medical
Examiner's office, Petty Officer Brochu said.

Coast Guard officials said the sudden appearance of the bodies was not unusual
because drowning victims are often submerged for days before resurfacing. They
said the bodies were probably resurfacing in the same area because the local
tide, which forms an eddy at one point, is not particularly strong and sometimes
holds in debris.

Along the beaches, where people were sunbathing, fishing and playing volleyball,
there was a mixture of alarm, outrage, revulsion and sympathy over the discovery
of the third body.

"Last year we had hypodermic needles and garbage washing up; now we have dead
people," said Edward Morrissey, a 24-year-old Brooklyn College student who rode
by bicycle from Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, for a dip in the chilly waters. "I
guess I'll just sit on the beach and drink beers now."

10 Detainees Released

At a stand selling iced tea, hot dogs and kinishes, Jackie Binder, a vendor,
said she felt pity for the dead men but wondered what the discovery would do for
beach attendance. "I know I wouldn't go in the water," she said. "I'd be too
scared."

Earlier this week, 10 more passengers of the ship were released on parole from
the immigration service's detention center on Varick Street, leaving 22 still in
custody there. The other passengers were taken to detention centers in
Pennsylvania, Maryland and Louisiana, Ms. LaGuardia said.

The 10 -- three of them released to relatives, seven to social-service agencies
-- were released because they are minors who gave the wrong ages when they were
apprehended, Ms. LaGuardia said. She declined to identify those who had been
released, or the agencies involved.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 18, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Newcomers Find Success Despite the Barriers

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2093 words

DATELINE: BRICK, N.J.


After following their dreams to the United States, Yolanda Vasquez and her
husband found themselves in a dark, three-room tenement in North Bergen with a
mattress on the floor, wondering what had possessed them to leave Panama.

They had no working papers, no job connections and few prospects -- at a time
when immigration laws were about to become stricter and halfway decent jobs hard
to come by, even for Americans.

But now, like many thousands of other immigrants who make their way against
great odds, they are on the verge of success. After nearly nine years in the
United States, they already own a three-bedroom ranch on a cul-de-sac, spend
most weekends chauffeuring their three children to soccer matches and hold two
individual retirement accounts. Any day now, they will also be legal residents.

The journey this couple made -- starting out in the region's underground economy
-- does not always end in success. The underground economy -- a world that is
off the books and unregulated -- has virtually enslaved thousands of vulnerable
immigrants, exploiting their desperation by forcing them into the worst jobs for
the worst pay.

But it has also served to sustain and nurture many thousands more who eventually
surface to pay taxes, gain legal status and achieve their goals.

Experts say that those most likely to succeed are much like Ms. Vasquez and her
husband, who were both well educated when they got here and had the advantage of
a relative already living legally in this country.

But theirs was not a journey without hardship. For this couple, it has involved
one route for the husband and one for the wife. He worked 12-hour days, seven
days a week, for years. She had to work as a live-in maid, hostage to a job she
hated, because she knew that maids, sponsored by their employers, are almost
guaranteed they will be granted legal status. The children, two boys, 14 and 12,
and a daughter, 13, suffered too. Often lonely in a strange land, they spent
long hours with babysitters, and many hours by themselves, as their parents
worked to establish themselves.

Sitting on a rose chintz sofa in their living room on a Sunday afternoon, the
couple talked of how far they had come even without a green card.  They love the
security and convenience of their Brick Township neighborhood, a sleepy block of
identical houses on quarter-acre lots bordering several large roadside malls and
plazas. Both have become fluent in English; Ms. Vasquez barely has an accent.
Together, they make $55,000 a year, with $45,000 coming from wages and overtime
earned by Ms. Vasquez's husband.

"Now, getting all the papers means we have arrived," said Ms. Vasquez, who is 41
years old. "But, whew!" She pretended to wipe sweat from her brow. "It has been
very hard."

Entry
A Simple Plan Derailed by Reality

Ms. Vasquez's husband, who is 39 and came to New York on a tourist visa in 1984,
one year before the rest of the family, expects his green card, or permanent
visa, within the next few weeks. Because he is not a legal resident yet, he
spoke only on the condition that he not be identified in order to protect his
job as a manager in a parking garage in northern New Jersey. Ms. Vasquez, who
usually uses her husband's last name, would only allow her given surname to be
used. She and the children received permanent visas last year, after applying
when Ms. Vasquez began working as a maid eight years ago.

When Ms. Vasquez's husband came to New York, the plan was so simple: Get a
high-paying job, save money, and send for the family. He believed that a job --
any job -- was the ticket to becoming a permanent resident of the United States.

He had decided to come after constant prodding from his brother-in-law, a native
Colombian who is a naturalized American citizen, and his sister.

Limited English in New Land

The couple lived in David, the capitol of Chiriqui, on Panama's west coast,
where they both had good jobs. He headed the human resources department of a
major company. She was a social worker. But they came to believe that their
children, who were still preschoolers, would never have the same educational
opportunities as their American counterparts.

"Panama doesn't have the technology," Ms. Vasquez's husband explained.

When he arrived in New York, in 1984, Ms. Vasquez's husband stayed with his
sister and brother-in-law in Astoria while he began looking for work by scouring
the want ads in the Sunday papers. But he knew little English beyond "How are
you?" "I am fine, thank you?" No job fit the bill for a manager/accountant who
couldn't speak the language.

Rough Times at Work

Meanwhile, his sister and brother-in-law told him to apply for a New York State
driver's license. All it took, he said, was a written test at the Department of
Motor Vehicles and proof from the Panamanian consulate that he had been a
licensed driver in Panama.

By his second month here, his brother-in-law also got him a Social Security
number and card -- sold by its owner -- from an acquaintance in Astoria with
connections in the underground economy.

"I didn't know that it belonged to somebody," Ms. Vasquez's husband said of the
card. "I didn't know what an illegal alien was. All I knew was that I was told I
needed the card to work."

Actually, at first he didn't need the card. His first three jobs, brokered by an
employment agency he found in the classifieds of Noticias Del Mundo, a
Spanish-language newspaper, were in places employing illegal immigrants. He was
dismissed from the first, a midtown croissant shop, after two hours for failing
to understand a sandwich order. He quit the second, as a deliveryman for a Times
Square diner, after getting paid $60 for a 60-hour week. (He had been promised
$130.) At the third, a Greek diner in Queens, he dropped a tray in the dining
room, sending plates and glasses crashing "with tremendous noise." The owner
paid him $80 for four days of work and said he would get a call if the diner
needed him.

Employment
Making a Living Despite Obstacles

It took close to six months to find a steady job, at a parking garage under a
midtown hotel. When the employers asked him for a driver's license and Social
Security card, he was able to show both.

By this time, his visa had expired. He and his brother-in-law went to an
immigration lawyer in Queens for help and were told that to get a visa he needed
the kind of job that would lead an employer to sponsor his application. Live-in
domestic work qualified. Parking cars did not.

But the garage paid relatively well -- $4 an hour when the minimum wage was
$3.35, and he decided to stay there. He set aside the issue of his residency and
began taking English classes twice a week for $60 a week at a midtown language
center.

He also opened a savings account at a Queens bank. And he received his first
credit card, by applying for a $500 credit limit, the minimum the bank offered.

Two months after he started working at the garage, he was ready to bring the
family over.

Moving to New Jersey

Ms. Vasquez and the children arrived in New York on tourist visas to find their
new home was a two-story clapboard building on North Bergen's busiest commercial
strip. On the advice of a co-worker, Ms. Vasquez's husband had crossed the
Hudson to find an affordable apartment. The rent: $500 a month.

"It was not a very nice apartment," he said.

But they could save money. A month later, they bought their first car, a 1978
Ford Fairlane, for $1,300.

They planned to have Ms. Vasquez's college transcripts transferred here so that
she could get a job as a social worker and apply for a green card. Meanwhile,
she enrolled in Hudson County Community College where she took six credits in
English and social service. "We considered it an investment," Ms. Vasquez said.

"It was a happy time," her husband said. "We started to travel around. One of
the first places we took them to was Washington, D.C. I learned how to use a
map. We went to Vermont. We went to Great Adventure."

Ms. Vasquez began applying for county social-service jobs but was told she
needed to learn more English.

"The plan wasn't really working out," she said.

Assimilation

Buying a Home And Settling Down

Not long after she and the children moved here, the 1986 immigration bill
imposing sanctions on employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens was passed. It
was then that she decided to become a maid. A friend in North Bergen told her
that a family in Deal, a half hour from where they now live, needed help. "We
went together to the couple," Ms. Vasquez said. "We said we wanted visas. That's
the only reason I will do this." The couple, who had two sons in elementary
school, agreed.

Ms. Vasquez and her husband saw few other options. They could have divorced each
other, married citizens for $2,000 to $3,000 each, then divorced the citizens
and married each other again. (He knew of people who were doing it.) Or they
could have bought false documents stating they lived in the United States before
1982 so that they could apply for amnesty under the new law. (He knew of people
doing that as well.)

"It wasn't the right way," he said. "I didn't want to go through that
situation."

They concede they have resorted to a few illegal methods to move forward here.
Ms. Vasquez's husband's Social Security card not only helped him get the garage
job; he also used it to open bank accounts and apply for credit cards. And Ms.
Vasquez bought a New York driver's license, paying a Panamanian official $50 and
a Department of Motor Vehicles worker $40 to get it.

But they have made their money in honest jobs, they say. And they have
sacrificed. For the first 18 months of her job, until the family moved from
their apartment in Hudson County to Ocean County, Ms. Vasquez lived with her
employers and saw the family only on weekends. She spent close to $80 of her
$100-a-week cash salary on taxis. Her husband, who worked an overnight shift,
had to hire a babysitter to care for the children. The eldest began having
problems in school. The whole family was miserable.

"I cried every night," Ms. Vasquez said. "I lost 40 pounds. I wanted to go back
to Panama."

The family then moved to a beach apartment in Deal, and having saved about
$10,000, started looking for a house. And because Ms. Vasquez had a work permit
and proof that she was in the process of obtaining a visa, they could apply for
a mortgage.

When they bought their $110,000 house in Brick Township in November 1989, it
took every penny they could save -- their combined income was about $40,000 --
and a small loan from the employers of Ms. Vasquez's husband.

It took nearly seven years for Ms. Vasquez and the children to receive their
visas. The applications, like thousands of other visa applications that flood
the Immigration and Naturalization Service each year, became mired in
bureaucracy.

Her husband had not applied for a visa with the rest of the family because if
his request had been denied, he would have had to leave the country, he said.
Ms. Vasquez applied for her husband's visa after she received hers because the
family's lawyer advised them that visa applications sponsored by a spouse are
usually quickly approved. In April, immigration officials requested a copy of
their marriage certificate -- a good sign, according to their lawyer.
Eventually, they hope to become full United States citizens.

Progress on Job Front

As much as she loathes it, Ms. Vasquez still works as a maid. For a while, she
kept the job because she thought she had to if her husband was to get a visa.
But a couple of months ago, she found out that that wasn't so.

"The lawyers said I just need to be employed," she said. She applied for a job
as a social worker for a nonprofit organization; last week, she found out she
got the job, which starts later this month.

Ms. Vasquez keeps a file of their children's school records on a kitchen
counter, with all their report cards, teacher's notes and awards. Recently, when
their report cards didn't meet her standards, Ms. Vasquez and her husband
canceled their cable television.

"We tell the children keep your first language and then work hard to achieve,"
she said. "That's the two pieces of advice."

Her husband is researching schools offering business courses for the
import-export business he wants to start. He firmly believes he will succeed.

"One of the things that has always prompted me," he said, "is the idea that if
someone else could do it, what can't you?"

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground -- Last of six articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The path to the American dream for Yolanda Vasquez and her
husband "has been very hard" since arriving from Panama, she said. She talked
with her daughter, Summil, in the kitchen of their home in Brick, N.J. (Chet
Gordon for The New York Times) (pg. A1); The home Yolanda Vasquez and her
husband left in David, Panama, nearly nine years ago to begin the long journey
to success in America. (pg. B4)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

A 4th Body Is Discovered in the Waters Off Queens

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 355 words


A body of an Asian man was pulled from the sea off Queens yesterday by the
United States Coast Guard, the police said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said the body might be that of a
passenger on the Golden Venture, one of 20 people believed to be missing from
the immigrant-smuggling ship that ran aground off Rockaway Beach on June 6 with
about 320 passengers.

The body was discovered in waters off Beach 124th Street, three miles east of
the waters off Fort Tilden where the 150-foot freighter ran aground. It was the
fourth body discovered last week in waters east of Fort Tilden. All four bodies
were those of Asian men.

Passenger List Not Found

The immigration agency is not sure exactly how many people were on the ship when
it ran aground. Investigators were unable to find a list of passengers,
something that all ships are required to have, an agency spokeswoman, Rosemary
LaGuardia, said.

Ms. LaGuardia said investigators were still interviewing the immigrants to
determine whether any of the missing passengers might be members of the gang
that arranged the smuggling operation. She said the figure of 20 believed to be
missing was based interviews with the immigrants.

If the four bodies are determined to be from the freighter, it would bring the
death toll from the grounding to 10. Since the grounding, the Coast Guard has
been on the lookout for more victims, Petty Officer Chris O'Neil said.

Coast Guard officials say it is not unusual for bodies to remain submerged for
days before resurfacing. Local currents may prevent the bodies from being washed
farther out to sea.

The ship set out from Bangkok, Thailand, in March or April, sailed around the
Cape of Good Hope and then headed north through the Atlantic to New York. The
immigrants reportedly paid as much as $30,000 each to make the clandestine trip
to America.

After the Golden Venture failed to rendezvous with smaller boats, which were
supposed to carry the passengers to land, the crew mutinied. The vessel struck a
sandbar about 200 yards from the shore, and many passengers panicked and jumped
into the surf.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

How Mexican Jobs Ease U.S. Burden

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 336 words


To the Editor:

In "Reaganomics, With a Mexican Accent," (Op-Ed, June 11), Michael Lind accuses
President Clinton of confusion because he supports revitalizing the economy and
the North America Free Trade Agreement, but Mr. Lind's arguments are confused.

"For Mr. Clinton to try to raise middle-class incomes and taxes while Mexican
and other third world immigrants are depressing wages and raising the costs of
law enforcement, education and welfare would be like bailing water from a
leaking canoe," he says correctly.

Yet we share a huge border with Mexico and have been unsuccessful in preventing
illegal immigration for decades. Surely, the best way to cut Mexican immigration
is to help Mexico provide jobs at home, and the trade agreement can only help.

It may be true that under the agreement we will lose jobs to Mexico, but we will
lose those jobs anyway, to China, Malaysia and Thailand. The job loss will only
accelerate, whether to Mexico or Asia, if we raise the minimum wage. We will
almost certainly lose fewer jobs if the trade agreement passes. It will make
much more sense for a Mexican factory to get bulky raw and intermediate
materials from the United States than it would for a factory in distant
Thailand. Also, new jobs will be created.

Remember, there was never anything to keep American companies from building
factories in Mexico to export to the United States and elsewhere. The barriers
were against American companies making goods for Mexicans on either side of the
border. Since the Salinas Government changed policies, United States-Mexican
trade has increased, and the United States has developed a significant and
growing trade surplus with Mexico, preserving some United States jobs and
creating new jobs on both sides of the border. The Mexican standard of living
has increased in the process.

I share Mr. Lind's concern for American workers, but surely we must care for the
conditions of Mexicans as well.

FRANKLIN PIUCK
Bay Shore, L.I., June 16, 1993

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

8 Captives Are Freed In Brooklyn

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 648 words


A Chinese woman found weeping on a Brooklyn street early Friday led the police
to a house in Sheepshead Bay where she and eight other immigrants had been held
captive, some for as long as half a year, the police said yesterday.

The 21-year-old woman told detectives she was kidnapped from Kennedy
International Airport a week ago, robbed of $300 and repeatedly raped by her
captors. Other victims said they were regularly beaten.

"These people are terrified," said Detective Kim Benson of the Brooklyn Special
Victims Squad. "If one guy moved a little slow, he'd get kicked."

Another detective, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said: "Two people were
beaten on a daily basis. One feigned illness so he could escape the beatings."

Six men -- all members of the Fuk Ching smuggling ring involved in the notorious
Golden Venture incident, in which 10 immigrants drowned when their ship ran
aground off the Rockaways three weeks ago -- were arrested at the Sheepshead Bay
house late Friday night.

In the last year, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said,
thousands of Chinese immigrants have risked their lives aboard freighters like
the Golden Venture, operated by organized-crime syndicates that exact up to
$35,000 from each would-be immigrant for the passage.

Climbed Out Window

Including the Golden Venture case, in which 320 aliens were crammed into the
hold of the rusting freighter, the Sheepshead Bay case brings to five the number
incidents involving Chinese immigrants found in the New York region in a month.

On May 24, 57 illegal immigrants were found in a Jersey City warehouse; on June
8, 13 were found in the basement of a house in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Nine days
later, immigration agents found 22 aliens in a Bayside, Queens, home.

During a news conference yesterday at the 61st Precinct station house, Capt.
Richard Ward of the Brooklyn Detective Squad said the woman escaped from a house
at 1844 East 26th Avenue in Sheepshead Bay about 8:30 A.M. on Friday. "A
bystander found the woman weeping in the street and took her to the station
house," Captain Ward said.

There she told detectives that she had climbed out a window when her captors
fell asleep. Officers took the woman to the 26th Avenue house, but found it
empty. Later, while being driven around the neighborhood, the woman spotted one
of her captors, Captain Ward said. Officers managed to follow the man to a neat
two-story beige house at 4031 Bedford Avenue in Sheepshead Bay. And at 11 P.M. a
raiding party burst through the door.

The suspects were identified as Huang Xiong Zong, 23, of Manhattan, charged with
robbery and rape; Zhen Peng Chung, 22, of Philadelphia, charged with rape; Wong
Ah Hon, 25, of Rego Park, Queens, charged with robbery; Zheng Fei, 25 of
Manhattan, unlawful imprisonment; Sheng Ping Nang, 29, of Monterey Park, Calif.,
unlawful imprisonment, and Liu Jian Hao, 20, of Philadeplphia, charged with
unlawful imprisonment. After the Bedford Avenue raid, the captives told
detectives that the first house had been abandoned half an hour after the woman
escaped.

Captain Ward said the woman arrived in New York a week ago, expecting to pay
$30,000 to her smugglers, but that she had been abducted at the airport by
another group. "Members of the gang were loitering outside the immigration area
and approached the victim, offering help," Captain Ward said. Instead, they
demanded $15,000.

A neighbor of the Bedford Avenue house, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
said two men moved in, usually leaving at noon and returning just before
midnight. Soon, the neighbor said, the men would return at night with two to
four other people. "But it was never the same people the next day," the neighbor
said. Only after midnight, the neighbor said, would groups of people walk out on
the street, apparently for a breath of fresh air.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Brooklyn showing location of the arrests.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What You Have to Do for a Green Card

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words


To the Editor:

"People of European origin can obtain a green card with ease," complains D. P.
Devanand (letters, June 28). Oh, really? I am British, of Anglo-Saxon ancestry.
I came to New York on a working visa dated 1986. My wife came to join me the
next year. We are still waiting for our green cards. Indeed, we are still
waiting for labor certification so that we may apply for green cards!

Compare the case of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, who got his visa -- a tourist, not
a working visa -- at the United States Embassy in Sudan in May 1990. He was
given a green card in April 1991. He does not seem to be of European origin; yet
in 11 months, he accomplished what we have been attempting for nearly eight
years.

Americans should know that the effect of their immigration laws is to reward the
cunning, unscrupulous and lawless of all races, and to shut out honest people
who play by the rules. No one knows this better than the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, whose officials, when you can get through to them, are
sympathetic but frustrated. They feel trapped in a process dominated by
political fads and misdirected humanitarianism. Anyone who can enlist a noisy
lobby or catch some passing mood goes to the head of the line.

When we saw a television news item about the shipload of Chinese illegals who
ran aground on Long Island, my wife said: "I bet they get green cards before we
do." I bet she's right.

NAME WITHHELD
Huntington, L.I., June 28, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

What You Have to Do for a Green Card;
Phantom Resident

SECTION: Section 4; Page 10; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 135 words


To the Editor:

Readers might be interested in a postscript to "Doctors, Spaghetti and My
American Wife" (Op-Ed, June 7), my Immigration and Naturalization Service saga.
My green card finally arrived in the mail last week, the issuing process having
perhaps been speeded by my article.

The only problem is that it was issued not to Andrew Philip (as they addressed
me in the interview), but to Stephen Andrew Philip. I thought it deserved some
notice that the Immigration and Naturalization Service can give lifetime
residency in the United States to a nonexistent person.

My lawyer says I now have to file for a replacement card, be photographed and
fingerprinted again, and so venture once more into the Immigration and
Naturalization Service breach.

ANDREW STEPHEN
Washington, June 28, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 8, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration Strains California Resources

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 248 words



To the Editor:

That Americans increasingly favor reduced levels of immigration, as a New York
Times/CBS News Poll shows (front page, June 27), should come as no surprise.
However, it is unfortunate that you use the unnecessarily pejorative terms
"anti-immigrant feelings" and "hostility."

Previous eras of high immigration to the United States were followed by periods
of very low immigration. From 1920 to 1970, immigration averaged only 180,000 a
year. In recent years, rates have gone up and up, and now exceed one million a
year.

Certainly the economy has something to do with changing sentiments. A recent
study by Donald Huddle, a Rice University economics professor, concluded that
immigration imposed a net cost of $45 billion on United States taxpayers last
year, yet this report received scant attention.

There are myriad other reasons for reducing immigration. Here in California --
destination of almost half the country's immigrants -- the population growth
rate exceeds that of India. Half the population growth is due to immigration.
Recent immigrants, with their larger families, have driven up the state's
fertility rate until it exceeds that of any industrialized country.

Population growth is California's most serious environmental problem. It also
plays a major role in the state's educational, economic and budgetary crises.

RIC OBERLINK
Executive Director, Californians
for Population Stabilization
Sacramento, Calif., June 29, 1993


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 11, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

WORLD UNIVERSITY GAMES;
Cuban Player Takes Intentional Walk

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 648 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, July 10


For the first time in the 70-year history of the World University Games,
baseball is being played as one of the 12 sports, and no one will be surprised
if the United States and Cuba play for the gold medal.

But that expected battle took an unexpected turn today when a member of the
Cuban team, 23-year-old Edilberto Oropesa, left the squad, giving rise to
reports that he would seek to defect.

Oropesa made his exit shortly before Cuba and Taiwan took the field at Sal
Maglie Stadium in Niagara Falls.

Over the Fence and Into a Cab

A Cuban assistant coach, Dimnas Rene Bello, told The Associated Press that
Oropesa climbed a 10-foot fence at the field and got into a car that sped off.
He said Oropesa did not return to the team tonight.

"What can we do about it?" he said. "We'll still win the gold anyway."

John J. Ingham, the district director at the Buffalo office of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service, confirmed that a Cuban player had left the team but
said the player had not made contact with I.N.S.

"We don't want to jump to any conclusions," he said. "He may show up at the
athletes' village or he could be in Miami by now."

Oropesa's disappearance came two years to the day after the Cuban pitcher Rene
Arocha defected to the United States. Arocha left from his teammates at the
Miami airport, becoming the first player to defect from the Cuban team in three
decades.

The St. Louis Cardinals were assigned his rights in a lottery, and this season
Arocha has become a starter, compiling a 6-3 record.

Today's incident served as a major distraction at the games. It also served as a
distraction for the anticipated showdown on the diamond between the United
States and Cuba, which is to take place Wednesday at Pilot Field, the home
stadium of the Class AAA Buffalo Bisons.

Cuba beat Taiwan, 8-4, today and is now 2-0. So is the United States, which
turned back South Korea, 8-3, today in a game that took on a nasty edge. A
Korean assistant baseball coach was ejected in the first inning for arguing
balls and strikes, and in the fourth inning, the umpire issued warnings to both
benches after United States pitcher John Powell hit two consecutive batters with
pitches.

But with or without Oropesa, the Cuban team will be a tough match for the United
States. Cuba, in a sense, is defending its gold medal from the 1992 Summer
Olympics in Barcelona and has compiled a 72-1 record in its last seven
international baseball tournaments. Its only loss came in 1987, at the hands of
the United States in the Pan-American Games.

The United States is relying on pitching and defense. "That's what we need to
win these games," said the team's coach, John Anderson, who is going into his
13th year as the coach at the University of Minnesota.

The American team is fueled by a young, but solid, pitching staff. There are 10
pitchers in all, and it is Powell, who has set various pitching records at
Auburn, who is expected to get the nod again against Cuba.

"I'm impressed with his ability to get out of jams," Anderson said. "He
possesses a great amount of competitiveness and has good movement on his ball. I
don't care what people say about throwing hard on the radar gun. You don't need
to throw hard to get people out."

Anderson has pulled one surprise in his lineup, shifting Louisiana State's Todd
Walker -- the most valuable player in the College World Series -- from second
base to third.

Walker isn't complaining about the move and is optimistic about his team's
chances. "It's a blessing more than a curse to be the underdog," he said. "All
the pressure is on Cuba. We don't have any pressure. We're just here to win the
gold."

One problem for the United States could be the loss of catcher Mike Martin of
Florida State. Martin hurt his ankle and knee in today's game when he fell into
the visitor's dugout while chasing a foul ball.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 12, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Ship Conditions Worsen as U.S. and Mexico Discuss Chinese Aliens

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 595 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 11


Sanitary conditions continued to deteriorate today for 659 undocumented Chinese
aliens aboard three ships off the Mexican coast, as officials in Washington and
Mexico City tried to find a solution to an increasingly embarrassing diplomatic
problem.

The men and women who were discovered crammed on the three rusting commercial
vessels when the ships were stopped late Tuesday have been given food and water
by the United States Coast Guard. But the Coast Guard has no way of providing
portable toilets, wash stands or other sanitary facilities. The international
waters in which the ships are anchored, 64 miles southwest of Ensenada, Mexico,
are reported to be calm.

A spokesman for the 11th Coast Guard District in Long Beach, Calif., said a
Chinese woman thought to be suffering from appendicitis was taken from one of
the ships this morning and brought to the University of California at San Diego
Medical Center. Hospital administrators said the woman was in good condition
after undergoing surgery and would be kept at the hospital for at least a few
days.

Several other aliens have been treated on board for cuts, bruises and other
minor injuries, Chief Warrant Officer John L. Hollis said. "Conditions on board
are fair to not very good," Warrant Officer Hollis said.

Interpreters on Board

Besides the Coast Guard personnel on board the three ships, at least two
interpreters from the Immigration and Naturalization Service have been taken to
the ships. An Administration official traveling with President Clinton said the
interpreters would be collecting biographical information on the aliens to help
determine their eligibility for political asylum.

Warrant Officer Hollis said the Chinese had been on board the ships "for a
while" and were restless. "They're not happy to be out there, but there are no
mutinies," he said. He did not know whether the aliens had yet been told they
might be sent back or whether anyone had explained to them why they were being
detained.

The ships have been held offshore since Friday, when Mexican officials rejected
a request by the United States to allow the aliens to land and be processed by
United Nations officials. It was believed that most would not qualify as
political refugees in the United States and would therefore be sent back to
China. The United States had offered to help Mexico pay those costs.

On Friday, the Mexican Foreign Ministry rejected the United States' request, and
the ministry restated that position today. If the ships were to land anyway,
Mexican law would require that the aliens be processed and repatriated, but any
attempt by the United States to force the ships into a Mexican port without
prior approval from Mexico would set off a diplomatic row.

Discussions Continue

Discussions between the two nations on an alternative solution were said to be
continuing. A senior Administration official traveling with President Clinton
denied today that Mexico had rejected the Administration's plan.

The Coast Guard patrol boat Point Stuart left San Diego Group Airstation about 9
A.M. on Saturday, carrying three crates of military meals, 350 pounds of rice
and six 1,000-watt halogen lights, according to a pool report prepared by The
Washington Post. The Sing Li 6, in tow behind a Coast Guard cutter because its
engine failed on Tuesday, received an electrical generator and food supplies.

The Long Sin I was flying a Chinese flag in the back and an American flag in the
front, The Post reported. The Sing Li 6 and the To Ching 212 were not displaying
flags.


LOAD-DATE: July 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Sing Li 6, carrying undocumented Chinese aliens, anchored 64
miles southwest of Ensenada, Mexico. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Hunt Goes On for Smugglers In Fatal Trip

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1442 words


Amid the confusion on the beach at dawn on June 6, Kin Sin Lee looked like any
other of the 300 Chinese immigrants huddled in blankets after swimming ashore
from the Golden Venture, the freighter that ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula
after a journey halfway around the world.

Within hours, investigators were told that this slender, plain-looking
23-year-old had been directing operations throughout the trip, immediately
making him their main link to the organized-crime figures who planned and ran
the smuggling operation.

Yet investigators soon concluded that Mr. Lee was only an underling in a loose
hierarchy of smugglers, a man trusted to say, if caught, that he didn't even
know the full name of his boss.

Six weeks after the Golden Venture came to symbolize the emerging crisis
involving wholesale smuggling of Chinese immigrants, the authorities have yet to
find anyone they hold responsible for the death of 10 immigrants trying to get
to land that morning.

Leaders Carefully Insulated

Law-enforcement officials say the case illustrates the daunting obstacles they
face in their pursuit of the Asian crime syndicates that dominate the lucrative
business. Witnesses who are reluctant to talk, language and cultural barriers
and the careful way that smugglers insulate themselves from incriminating
evidence all make it difficult to pin down the real culprits.

Although President Clinton has vowed to crack down on smuggling and only
recently turned away three ships with 659 undocumented foreigners that neared
the coast of California, law enforcement officials say that if smugglers
continue to evade prosecution, there is little hope for preventing them from
launching more ships.

"As long as the incentive for smuggling is high, and the risk of getting caught
is low, smugglers are going to be active," said Daniel Molerio, assistant
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, who supervises
investigations in New York. "But it's very difficult to track them down."

Since the recent wave of ships carrying undocumented Chinese began in 1991, only
once in two dozen cases have the smugglers been caught: a ship was caught off
the coast of North Carolina last September, run by a pair of Taiwanese-American
restaurateurs in New York. Investigators say the two, George Huang of Elmhurst,
Queens, and William Chen of Plainview, L.I., left a trail of evidence that
identified them as owners of the ship, making them look like amateurs. They were
sentenced Thursday to five years in prison.

Officials say immigrant smuggling appears to be dominated by Taiwanese
businessmen who have connections in China, Thailand, Hong Kong, New York and
Central America, where they arrange ships, bribe local officials and hire gang
members to exact payments from passengers.  Competing smugglers often cooperate
on a venture, sharing the risk and the profit.

Yet in the Golden Venture case, the prosecution of immigrant smugglers will be
limited for now to the 12 men who were arrested the day the ship arrived: Mr.
Lee, Capt. Amir Tobing of Indonesia and 10 crew members. Each has been charged
with five counts of immigrant smuggling and all are scheduled to stand trial in
October.

Documents released by the United States Attorney's office earlier this month and
interviews with law-enforcement officials indicate that the investigation of the
Golden Venture is preceedingly painstakingly.

'Lot of Avenues to Pursue'

"Obviously, this didn't start with the beaching of the boat, so we've got a lot
of avenues to pursue," said Catherine E. Palmer, an expert on Asian organized
crime who is prosecuting the case in the Eastern District of New York.

Ms. Palmer expressed confidence that the Golden Venture investigation would
eventually net some large-scale smugglers. She would not comment on suggestions
by Chinatown lawyers that the Golden Venture had been run by six or more
Asian-American men, two of whom own restaurants in Queens, nor would she discuss
details of the case.

But Ms. Palmer said that obtaining evidence was a logistical nightmare, with
more than 250 passengers being held in detention in several states and few if
any of them willing to speak freely with officials lest it affect their bids for
political asylum.

Still the investigation has produced clues about how smugglers insulate
themselves with subordinates who are kept ignorant or loyal enough to insure
that if a smuggling operation goes awry, there is little to point to the real
culprits.

Trying to Emigrate Himself

In interviews with immigration agents, Mr. Lee portrayed himself as a man trying
to emigrate to the United States himself; he said he was hired in June 1991 by a
Chinese businessman in Thailand to oversee the detention of several dozen fellow
Chinese immigrants at a pair of safe houses in Bangkok.

In December 1992, Mr. Lee told investigators, he was asked by the businessman to
oversee operations on board the Golden Venture in exchange for free passage to
the United States. Mr. Lee insisted in interviews with immigration agents that
he did not know the man's full name, referring to him only as "the boss."

Mr. Lee communicated with the businessman regularly via radio from the ship,
said Captain Tobing, who told the authorities that he had been hired in Bangkok
by the same man. Yet according to the documents, Captain Tobing also said he
knew his employer only by a partial name, "Charlie." He said the employer was
from Taiwan and had a wife who lived in New York City.

"Charlie" was a familiar name to immigration agents involved in the Golden
Venture case. One investigator said that when a ship called the Nadj was
stranded in Mombasa, Kenya, with 200 undocumented Chinese in October 1992,
"Charlie" soon arrived to pay for hotel rooms and to assure the passengers that
another ship would be along soon.

'Mr. Charlie' With Money

"There was a crisis, and out of nowhere arrives Mr. Charlie with bags of money,"
said the investigator, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "He is not a
general, but a top lieutenant who has wide latitude to pay people whatever is
necessary, to make decisions to resolve any problem."

The captain told investigators that Mr. Lee spoke to "Charlie" again via radio
to arrange two separate rendez-vous with smaller ships that would ferry the
passengers to the United States. But when neither ship materialized, the
communications became more desperate as the Golden Venture approached New York.

The documents offer no conclusive evidence about the identity of "Charlie" or
any other smugglers. But the papers and notebooks found on board the Golden
Venture include tidbits of evidence that begin in Singapore, where the ship
originated.

One document is a copy of a letter from the shipping agent, Rosson Shipping,
that processed the sale of the ship, originally named the Tong Sern.

Laughed in Disbelief

Mohammed Fauzie, manager of Rosson Shipping, said in a telephone interview that
he had acted as the agent in the sale of the Tong Sern from Hiap Hoe Pvt. Ltd.
to Mr. Lee last December. He said he did not know what price had been paid for
the ship, but added that he and his colleagues laughed in disbelief when they
heard news accounts of the ship's landing in New York.

"That ship was in no way fit to cross the ocean," Mr. Fauzie said, saying that
he was told the vessel would be used to ship cargo from Thailand to Cambodia and
Vietnam.

An employee of Hiap Hoe said that the manager, Ng Choon Kok, was ill and
unavailable for questions.

Investigators also say that they suspect that Guo Liang Chi, the leader of the
Fuk Ching gang, who is known by the nickname "Ah Kay," was involved in the
Golden Venture. Mr. Guo is believed to have left the United States early this
year in the midst of a struggle with other gang members over profits from
immigrant smuggling.

Teaneck Link Suspected

The investigators say they believe there is a connection between the murder of
Mr. Guo's two brothers in Teaneck, N.J., on May 24 and the failure of any boats
to meet the Golden Venture.

Mr. Guo, who applied for political asylum in 1991 after a felony conviction for
extortion in 1986 and deportation to China in 1988, is currently appealing a
second deportation effort.

Investigators are still sifting through the hundreds of pages of documents
discovered on the ship, and checking the dozens of addresses and phone numbers
within.

"It's a morass of information," said one investigator. "This is really laborious
stuff. It's kind of like walking down a hallway with 10,000 doorways and making
sure each one is shut."

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

JULY 11-17;
Adrift on a Sea of Diplomacy

BYLINE: By TIM WEINER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 4; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 197 words


Six hundred and fifty-nine Chinese refugees on three fetid freighters became
pawns in an international game last week. Headed for California, they were
intercepted by the Coast Guard, rebuffed by a United States already concerned
about joblessness and taken in by an eternally impoverished Mexico, ultimately
to be returned to China, where they may face jail terms and fines.

Their desires were made plain by a crude sign: "Bread We Want, Freedom We Want."
But they ran afoul of the Clinton Administration's crackdown on illegal
immigrants seeking political asylum.

For the record, Mexican officials said the sudden reversal of their refusal to
take in the refugees was for humanitarian purposes. Privately, they said they
were under intense pressure placed on them by the pending vote in Congress on
the North American Free Trade Agreement, which would unite the two nations and
Canada in a single tariff-free zone.

The refugees began their voyage from China's Fuzhou Province three months ago.
They languished for 11 days while diplomats debated their fate. On Friday, State
Department official said passengers with genuine claims for political asylum
would be heard.

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 19, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Allows a 3d Ship to Dock; Most Are Put on a Plane to China

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 357 words

DATELINE: ENSENADA, Mexico, July 18


A third smuggler's ship carrying Chinese migrants was finally towed into port
here today after being kept offshore because of tensions among the 235
passengers. Most were then deported.

After the rusting, 30-year-old cargo ship docked, most of the Chinese were
herded down a gangplank onto 10 buses that took them to the airport in Tijuana.
They then boarded an L-1011 jet for China, where their long voyage began many
weeks ago. Mexican officials said 19 refugees who were suspected of causing
friction had been handcuffed and put onto a separate bus.

More than 400 Chinese from two other ships arrived here on Saturday, three days
after Mexico ended a standoff with the United States Coast Guard by deciding
that the illegal refugees could come ashore. The Mexican authorities have been
loading them steadily onto planes for China.

Seventy passengers from the vessel that docked today remained in Ensenada
tonight but are scheduled to fly out on Monday.

Even as the dispute over the three ships seemed to be ending, Mexican officials
said another ship loaded with Chinese emigres had been sighted in international
waters south of here and was heading this way. They said several more ships were
off the coast of San Francisco, near Panama and in the waters near Hawaii.
Officials said they could not accept all the ships.

The crews of all three ships now docked here have been arrested and will be
prosecuted for violating Mexican immigration law, officials said. If convicted,
they face jail sentences of up to 18 years.

Like the hundreds who were sent back on Saturday, their hands bound with plastic
straps, the Chinese who were taken off the third ship today appeared to be
stunned into silence.

Jorge Medina Viedas, the spokesman for the Interior Ministry, said a 29-year-old
man had suffered an attack of appendicitis and had to be taken from the vessel
before it arrived.

Officials would not say what dispute had occurred on the third ship, only that
it could not proceed into port until the problem had been resolved. Mr. Medina
Viedas said no one aboard appeared to have any injuries resulting from a fight.


LOAD-DATE: July 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map shows locations of Ensenada and Tijuana.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants Forgoing Citizenship While Pursuing American Dream

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1830 words


For most of his 12 years in this country, Armando Espinosa, an immigrant from
Ecuador, had absolutely no intention of becoming a United States citizen. What
would be the purpose? he asked himself. With a green card in his wallet, he led
a comfortable life in Queens, working as an industrial mechanic while his two
children flourished in public schools. He certainly did not consider himself
American.

"I am Ecuadorean in my blood and my gut," he said. "I do not even like apple
pie."

Mr. Espinosa was hardly alone in his thinking. Unlike 50 years ago, when the
majority of immigrants routinely sought to naturalize, only slightly more than a
third of legal permanent residents now apply to become citizens. Although
advocates for immigrants believe that the tide is turning, most immigrants now
exist in a state of legal limbo, many nourished by the dream, often an illusion,
that they will someday return home.

'Not Healthy for Democracy'

Numbering up to 10 million nationally, these immigrants form a growing
population of tax-paying residents without the right to vote or to serve on
juries, police forces or in many Federal jobs. At a time when ethnic and racial
tensions are fracturing the harmony of many cities, the immigrants' status --
seen by some as an unfair disenfranchisement and by others as a failure to
integrate -- has become a cause of concern.

"You don't want a city composed of isolated pockets of immigrants who belong to
a subculture and not to the larger society," said Sean R. Benson, executive
director of the nonprofit Emerald Isle Immigration Center in Queens and the
Bronx. "It's not healthy for them or for democracy."

Legal immigrants are eligible for citizenship after five years in the country,
or after three years if they are married to a citizen. The reasons that most do
not naturalize are complex, ranging from their close ties to home in the age of
jet travel and long-distance telephone calls to their fear of the citizenship
interview -- in which immigration officials may challenge them to "Name the
order in which the 13 colonies came into the union" or "Explain the stripes on
the American flag."

"It's easier to exist in limbo between two worlds," said Margie McHugh,
executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition. "Because people can
come and go more easily, they are not forced to make the ultimate choice of
where they want to pledge their allegiance."

With the help of officials in cities like New York, however, advocates like Ms.
McHugh are aggressively selling the advantages of citizenship on the radio and
in community workshops -- just as New York City textbooks used to promote
Americanization in the early part of the century.

Already, owing as well to changes in the application process, more New York
immigrants are applying for citizenship than at any point in the recent past.
Over the last year applications to the New York office of the immigration
service have increased by 70 percent. At the same time a small industry catering
to, and sometimes exploiting, applicants has arisen, with nonprofit groups
offering free civics classes while for-profit stores charge exorbitant rates to
help immigrants fill out the forms.

Starting in November the number of applicants is expected to swell as the three
million immigrants granted amnesty under the Immigration Reform and Control Act
of 1986 become eligible for citizenship. In a recent, typical month, about 8,000
of them called the National Association of Latino Elected Officials to inquire
about the process.

"I think we will see a very dynamic citizenship movement build in the next
decade, with millions of people coming forward, spurred by the folks who
received amnesty," said Frank Sharry, executive director of the National
Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum.

Attitude Changes Slowly

Mr. Espinosa's attitude toward citizenship slowly evolved. As his children --
one born in the United States -- became Americanized, he found himself
increasingly interested in the laws and politics of his new country. He could no
longer vote in Ecuador and he could not vote in the United States. He began to
feel like a man without a nation, he said.

Slowly angered by what he saw as the political weakness of Hispanic residents,
Mr. Espinosa said he felt guilty. "If people like me retain our allegiances to
home and refuse to participate in electoral politics here," he said, "the lot of
our race will never improve."

Just as Mr. Espinosa changed his thinking with time, so too have immigrant
groups, particularly as inner-city ethnic tensions flared and anti-immigrant
sentiment intensified. In the last few years it has become a priority for
Hispanic and Asian groups, as well as for politicians in newly created minority
districts, to convert immigrants to citizens and then register them to vote.

"Our political power will be thwarted if we don't transform into citizens the
immigrants who right now, technically, don't count," said Luis Miranda, director
of the Hispanic Federation of New York City.

National Identity

Because immigration is at peak levels, the numbers of legal immigrants who apply
for citizenship are still substantial, about 300,000 a year. But the proportions
are low. About 37 percent apply for citizenship, compared with about 67 percent
in 1946, according to Immigration and Naturalization Service statistics.

Immigrants who find it harder to return home for visits -- political refugees
and those who come from farther away -- are likeliest to become citizens.
Vietnamese refugees are eight times as likely to naturalize than economic
migrants from Canada, for instance.

And while slightly more than half the immigrants from the former Soviet Union
and China become citizens, only 18 percent of Dominicans and 28 percent of
Jamaicans do so, according to the New York City Planning Department. (Those four
places sent the most immigrants to New York City in 1992.)

"You have to understand that many immigrants feel lost and diminished when they
come to this country," said Saramaria Archila, a Colombian immigrant and
executive director of the Latin American Integration Center. "What they have
left is their national identity, and they are loathe to give that up."

Photos and Fingerprints

Only about 20 percent of the immigrants from Mr. Espinosa's homeland renounce
their official ties to Ecuador and swear allegiance to the United States. And
that low percentage worries him.

So after learning on Spanish-language radio about a citizenship campaign in
Queens, Mr. Espinosa ventured out on a recent weekend to the storefront
headquarters of the Latin American Integration Center, a nonprofit community
group, in Woodside. Volunteers fingerprinted and photographed him.

They also helped him fill out the Immigration and Naturalization Service
application, which asks a dizzying array of questions, some personal, some
political, some arcane.

They include: "Have you ever knowingly committed a crime for which you have not
been arrested? Have you ever been a habitual drunkard? Have you ever advocated
or practiced polygamy? During the period March 23, 1933, to May 8, 1945, did you
serve in, or were you in any way affiliated with the Nazi Government of
Germany?"

Eight-Month Wait

Because the New York offices in Manhattan and Brooklyn have a backlog of
applicants, Mr. Espinosa will have to wait about eight months for his interview
with one of the 25 examiners who each conduct up to 40 interviews a day. The
examiner will ask him civics questions, evaluate his spoken English and dictate
a sentence for him to write as a test of his written English.

Over the decades, the interview for citizenship has achieved notoriety based on
the experiences of immigrants who have encountered hostile or arbitrary
examiners. Immigrant groups say that fear of the interview -- especially the
English proficiency component -- keeps many people from applying.

A survey of Hispanic immigrants by the National Association of Latino Elected
Officials showed that 56 percent had started the application process, but only
33 percent completed it.

"We have eliminated voter literacy exams in the South, but we still retain the
tradition of arbitrariness in testing for the citizenship exams," said Harry
Pachon, executive director of the Latino officials' organization. "Examiners can
make the process a living hell. They can obviously overstep their discretionary
authority, as in one instance where someone was asked if they ever had sex
before marriage. Or they can perversely ask the kind of civics questions that
most Americans could not answer."

A Standardized Exam

To counter complaints of arbitrariness, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service began last year to offer immigrants the option of taking a standardized
citizenship exam created by the Educational Testing Service, which administers
college entrance exams. The citizenship exams are administered and graded by
community groups, and immigrants who pass are only briefly interviewed by
Immigration and Naturalization Service examiners.

Some problems have arisen at the community test sites, particularly those based
in for-profit offices, said Rose Chapman, the chief of naturalization for the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in New York. One group in the Bronx is
under investigation for charging immigrants $400 for the $16 test and promising
a passing grade. Another in Queens passed almost all its test takers, but the
dictation responses on the exams were all written in the same handwriting.

Some 60,000 immigrants nationally have taken the exam in the last 17 months.
About 15 percent of the applicants in New York City opt for the exam, accounting
for a significant increase in the citizenship applications.

Another increase resulted when the immigration service required longtime legal
immigrants to exchange their dated green cards for new ones at a cost of $70.
Many -- about 7,000 people in New York City -- decided to pay $20 more and
become a citizen as long as they had to face the Immigration and Naturalization
Service once more. And about 3,500 immigrants indicated that they were moved to
come forward so they could qualify to become a New York City police officer, Ms.
Chapman said.

Feeling Torn

Lucia Alvarez, a Guatemalan immigrant who works for the city's Human Resources
Administration, said that after 13 years in this country the decision was a
troubling one despite her gratitude toward the United States.

"I feel bad, torn, toward my country, as if I'm abandoning it," Ms. Alvarez
said. "It's like denying something about yourself."

Still, as a citizen, Ms. Alvarez will be able to sponsor her mother to join her
in this country without the difficulties she has experienced for years.

"There's no turning back now, I guess," Ms. Alvarez said, as she sealed the
envelope with her photos, her fingerprints and the details of her life and
character.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "If people like me retain our allegiances to home and refuse to
participate in electoral politics here," said Armando Espinosa, an immigrant
from Ecuador, "the lot of our race will never improve." He was fingerprinted by
Amparo Aristizibel for a citizenship application at Latin American Integration
Center. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

Chart: "CIVICS LESSION -- The Route to Citizenship" explains steps involved
obtaining U.S. citizenship, and some of the benefits which come with that.
(Source: Immigration and Naturalization Service)

Graph: "IMMIGRATION -- Leaving the Green Card Behind," tracks percentage of
people from each country who entered the United States in 1977 and became U.S.
citizens by 1989. (Source: City Planning Department)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 19, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Egyptian Cleric May Drop Fight Against Deportation

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 760 words


Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the imprisoned Islamic cleric whose followers include
suspects in two New York bombing conspiracies, might abandon his fight against
deportation if the United States allows him to leave for Afghanistan, his lawyer
said yesterday.

The lawyer, Barbara Nelson, said she was awaiting a response from the office of
United States Attorney Mary Jo White before appealing a deportation order to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

"There are two real reasons," she said. "If he got sent to Egypt his life would
be in danger. If we file a motion of appeal to the Second Circuit, he will be
detained for several more months. In Afghanistan, at least he'd be free."

Mr. Abdel Rahman, who is being held at the Otisville Federal prison northwest of
New York City, suffered a setback in his quest for asylum when United States
District Court Judge Charles L. Brieant on Monday upheld the Government's
decision to remove the cleric because he is a "danger to the security of the
United States." The judge gave Mr. Abdel Rahman's lawyers 10 days to appeal.

'Many Questions'

Kate Cosenza, a spokeswoman for Ms. White, said, "There are many questions that
need to be resolved before we can consider this proposal."

Normally, in Immigration and Naturalization Service deportation proceedings,
officials said, the Government would send an alien like Mr. Abdel Rahman to the
country he left before entering the United States -- in this case, Saudi Arabia.

If that nation refused him entrance, the Government could then turn to his
country of birth, citizenship or where he had a residence. If those nations
proved "impractical, inadmissible or impossible," the Immigration and
Nationality Act states, the Government could then choose any country willing to
accept him.

But in the case of Mr. Abdel Rahman, a host of diplomatic and foreign policy
questions arise, officials said. Egypt asked for the cleric's extradition in
July and an Egyptian judge has issued an arrest order for Mr. Abdel Rahman,
charging that he participated in an anti-Government riot in 1989. But the
extradition has been stymied because the 1874 treaty governing extradition
procedures between the two countries does not seem to offer legal justification
for returning Mr. Abdel Rahman to Egypt on the charge of inciting a riot.

One Federal official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the Justice
Department was examining whether the extradition request gives the United States
the right to hold Mr. Abdel Rahman even if he is willing to leave voluntarily.
"I think there's a desire if possible to be helpful to the Egyptians," he said.
"They're the ones who are going to be most directly affected by the guy."

The official said the Justice Department was examining whether the Government
could "guide the destination" of Mr. Abdel Rahman if he agreed to leave. "That's
a little bit unclear in the law since we usually don't care where the person
goes," he said.

Abdulaleem El-Abyad, the press counselor for the Egyptian mission to the United
Nations, said yesterday, "We did ask for extradition to Egypt if possible." But
he added that it was up to the United States to decide where it wanted to send
the cleric.

"Wherever he's going to be, he's going to be trouble," he said.

Sheik Welcome in Afghanistan

Afghanistan's Prime Minister, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, has said publicly several
times that he would welcome Mr. Abdel Rahman, who had been a supporter of Mr.
Hekmatyar's Islamic Party when the prime minister was the head of one of the
Afghan rebel factions battling the Soviet-backed regime in Afghanistan. But
United States officials have expressed concern that Afghanistan would provide
Mr. Abdel Rahman with a secure base for Islamic militancy.

Mr. Abdel Rahman, who is considered the spiritual leader of the Islamic Group in
Egypt, has called for the violent overthrow of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak.
His followers have also been charged in both the Feb. 26 explosion at the World
Trade Center and in a second conspiracy to bomb the Holland and Lincoln tunnels,
the United Nations building and 26 Federal Plaza.

Transcripts of secret tape recordings made with the help of a Government
informer suggest that the cleric was aware of plans to target various buildings
in New York City, and discussed the merits of different actions. But Government
officials have said the evidence against him is too weak to merit charges. The
55-year-old cleric has denied any involvement in either bombing conspiracy.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Tightens Asylum Rules For Chinese

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1482 words


Lin Ping's long journey to America seemed to be over at dawn one Sunday in June,
when he set foot on a beach in Queens after a frantic, freezing swim ashore from
the Golden Venture, the aging freighter that ran aground off the Rockaway
Peninsula after a trip halfway around the world.

Even after being taken into custody, Mr. Lin says, he was thrilled to learn that
his case would be heard in a court of law. He knew that thousands of Chinese
before him had won the right to stay in the United States by saying they had
been persecuted for violating China's strict one-child policy, and by saying
that they faced fines or sentences in labor camps if they returned.

But on Aug. 19, in a makeshift immigration court in York County Prison in
Pennsylvania, his plea for political asylum was rejected. Like the majority of
the 249 Golden Venture passengers still in detention, Mr. Lin was told that he
had not demonstrated adequately that he had been singled out for persecution for
a political or religious belief.

As soon as the paperwork allows, officials say, the detainees will be returned
to China, perhaps starting as soon as November, as the Government tries to send
a message to would-be immigrants and smugglers.

"It seems we were unlucky," said Mr. Lin, 27 years old, speaking by telephone
from the Pennsylvania prison, his Chinese heavy with the accent of his native
Fujian Province. "Other people with circumstances like mine have won before, I
know that. I don't understand why I lost."

Because of a Bush Administration initiative drafted in response to China's
strict family planning policies, asylum has been granted to Chinese generously
in recent years, at least when compared with other nationalities. But Mr. Lin
and the others aboard their ill-named ship landed in the wrong place at the
wrong time.

Part of their misfortune was arriving on the doorstep of the nation's media
capital with spectacular drama -- hundreds of immigrants jumping off a freighter
for a desperate swim ashore, 10 of them perishing in the surf, the rest huddling
in blankets on the beach. The intense news coverage, officials concede, cried
out for some governmental response.

President Clinton ordered a crackdown on immigrant smuggling, and in July more
than 650 Chinese were sent home after being found in three ships off the coast
of Mexico. Last week, several members of the Fuk Ching gang were arrested in
Hong Kong and New York in connection with the smuggling of human cargo and other
crimes.

Although officials say the United States was already in the process of becoming
tougher on Chinese immigrants, the Government has clearly decided to make an
example of the Golden Venture passengers.

Sending a Signal

"We've made no secret of the fact that we asked that these cases be expedited,"
said Phyllis Coven, special assistant to Associate Attorney General Webster L.
Hubbell. "We want the authentic refugees to be found and the others to be
deported to China, as a bit of a signal, especially to the criminals organizing
the smuggling."

Not only have the cases been decided faster, but tougher standards for asylum
have meant that the vast majority of Golden Venture passengers are likely to be
deported. So far, 171 Golden Venture passengers have been denied asylum and only
14 -- or 7.5 percent of the decided cases -- have won it. An additional 68 are
still waiting to be told. On Friday, 7 of those who were granted political
asylum were released in Pennsylvania. The Government can appeal grants of
political asylum and hold individuals even after asylum has been granted while
the appeal is pending.

In contrast, 30.8 percent of the applications for political asylum were approved
for Chinese immigrants caught trying to enter the country in the 12-month period
that ended Sept. 30, 1992, according to the Executive Office of Immigration
Review. An even higher percentage of Chinese applicants -- 85 percent --
received political asylum when their plea was made voluntarily to an asylum
officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, rather than in court.

Immigration judges work separately from the I.N.S., answering instead to the
Executive Office for Immigration Review, also in the Department of Justice.
Immigration lawyers say that the attitude of immigration judges toward asylum
claims from Chinese seems to have become stricter starting early this year.

Yet human rights advocates assert that the attention drawn to the Golden Venture
cases has affected the way judges are handling them.

"There is a radical departure from past procedure," said Arthur Helton, director
of the refugee project on the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. "We're
concerned that worthy claims are going unrecognized."

Mr. Helton added in a letter to the Justice Department on Friday, "We are
concerned that a pernicious message may have made its way into the approach of
some immigration judges and I.N.S. trial attorneys handling these cases --
namely to swiftly deny the claims of these individuals."

Which Cases Are Worthy?

Clinton Administration officials insist that there has been no change in policy
on asylum claims by Chinese. But they are trying to process the cases quickly,
they say, as is often done when immigrants are being held in detention at
Federal expense.

Attorney General Janet Reno is expected to decide soon, Ms. Coven said, on
appeals in two cases that will set a precedent one way or the other on whether
to allow political asylum to Chinese on the basis of persecution under the
one-child policy.

If she follows an argument set out in a 1989 case, Matter of Chang, then asylum
applicants will need to demonstrate that they were singled out for persecution
because of a political or religious belief. If she follows an argument favored
by former I.N.S. General Counsel Grover Joseph Rees, then any Chinese who can
demonstrate persecution under the one-child policy will qualify for asylum.

One of the problems facing Ms. Reno and her staff is the difficulty in
determining which cases are worthy.

Since 1979, China has limited each married couple to one child. But enforcement
of the policy varies from area to area and in some cases includes forced
sterilization, forced abortion, other involuntary birth-control methods and
heavy fines.

But immigration lawyers who are familiar with Chinese asylum cases admit that
very few of those who plead for asylum based on persecution from the one-child
policy have much evidence to back up their cases.

One Man's Story

Lin Ping's case appears to be typical. His story, as told by his lawyer, Craig
Trebilcock, goes as follows: He was forced to leave his home village in Fujian
Province after an incident that began when the police came to force his wife, 10
days after she gave birth to their second child, to go to a hospital to be
sterilized.

Since his wife was still bedridden from a difficult childbirth, Mr. Lin said, he
feared that she might not survive an operation. His pleadings ignored, he
physically attacked the police and, soon joined by his relatives and neighbors
in what became a melee, forced the officers to back off.

Knowing that the police would return in strength the following day, Mr. Lin and
his wife packed a few belongings and left their village before dawn. Months
later, leaving his wife and two children hidden with relatives, Mr. Lin borrowed
enough money to get passage abroad.

It is a compelling story. And yet, as Mr. Trebilcock concedes, it is without
more than a few scraps of documentary evidence, and depends largely on Mr. Lin's
word.

Irritated by Questions

When asked about details of his case in the telephone interview, Mr. Lin seemed
surprised, and almost belligerent. "I'd rather not talk about the past," he said
at one point. "I have nothing more to say about that."

Mr. Trebilcock said later that his client had been willing to discuss his case
at length during his asylum hearing, but may have felt uneasy talking about his
life in China with a reporter, fearing that public attention would bring a
reprisal to his family in China or to himself if he returns.

Mr. Lin said he had felt ill and short-tempered since last month when he and
more than 100 others at York County Prison went on a four-day hunger strike. He
complained about all the American cheese and white bread in his prison diet --
"No rice at all" -- but added that worst of all was the psychological pressure
that grows as he realizes that his physical suffering, and the considerable debt
his family bears for trying to send him here, were all wasted.

Another detainee, Sing Chau Chung, whose request for political asylum was also
denied, said the pressure from his family would be harder to bear than anything
else.

"I don't know how I am going to face my father," he said. "He worked so hard for
this. I feel like I have failed so completely."

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Agencies Charge Visa-Counterfeiting

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 53; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 228 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12


Undercover agents have uncovered a counterfeiting operation that sold United
States entry visas to thousands of Egyptians, including some who attended the
mosque of the jailed Muslim cleric Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, Government officials
say.

The fake documents were not detected by United States border inspectors, partly
because they were of very high quality, the officials said.

All spoke on condition of anonymity, and none of the agencies involved in the
probe -- the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the Bureau of Diplomatic Security at the State Department -- would
make an official comment.

With help from an informer, the authorities determined that the counterfeit
operation, which used color photocopying, was based in the United States and
that most of the visas were sold to Egyptians, the officials said. A few were
sold to people from Eastern Europe.

Investigators also found that some of those who entered the United States on the
phony visas attended the al-Salam mosque in Jersey City, where Mr. Abdel Rahman
sometimes preached until he was taken into custody on July 2. He was indicted
last month in the World Trade Center bombing and plots to blow up other New York
City landmarks.

A seller of the visas has been arrested and is expected to be indicted next
week, the officials said.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 19, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE WORLD;
Revisiting Immigration and the Open-Door Policy

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1487 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


WITH the immigrant influx at its highest level since the early years of this
century and the economy stumbling, American ambivalence about immigration is
again painfully obvious. The masses of tired and poor, whether Mexican, Chinese
or Haitian, find themselves less and less welcome in this nation of immigrants,
as the chorus of voices calling for further restrictions grows larger and
louder.

"We can no longer allow compassion to overrule reason" was the way Gov. Pete
Wilson of California, which absorbed nearly half of the influx of the 1980's,
phrased the issue in an open letter to President Clinton last month. But the
debate over the impact of the estimated 1.25 million immigrants who enter the
country legally and illegally each year is anything but reasonable.

Once again, as in earlier periods of economic or political insecurity, questions
are being raised as to whether immigrants are a source of strength and vitality
or a debilitating force that drives down wages. Once again, immigration's
critics are saying that the newcomers are a burden, not a boon, overusing public
services for which they do not pay taxes.

A Net Plus

But the evidence put forth to support these assertions is questionable at best.
Unlike the first decades of the 1900's, when the nation went through a similar
influx and debate about immigration, there is now a significant body of research
tracking immigrants from the moment they arrive. Most academic and government
studies conclude that the presence of immigrants has some overall benefit; few
say they harm the economy.

Yet perceptions die hard. Black leaders and labor unions argue that the job
market is swamped with cheaply paid workers. Spokesmen of the nativist right see
the newcomers swelling the welfare rolls. Disputing them, Jeffrey S. Passel,
head of the immigrant research project at the Urban Institute, a research group
in Washington, said "places that got immigrants during the 1980's generally did
better in terms of wage growth than places that didn't." Immigrants, said
Gregory De Freitas, an economist and immigration expert at Hofstra University in
New York, "help expand the demand for labor and increase the number of jobs,
which tends to outweigh any negative effects they may have."

During the 1980's, average wages for native-born workers hit a plateau, and
those of recently arrived immigrants declined slightly. When David Card, an
economist at Princeton University, examined the impact of the arrival of 125,000
Cubans in the 1980 Mariel boatlift, which increased Miami's labor force by 7
percent in an overnight expansion rarely seen in recent American history, he
found that "the Mariel influx appears to have had virtually no effect on the
wages or unemployment rates of less-skilled workers," whether white or black.

One recent study by the Urban Institute concluded that immigrants actually help
create more jobs in urban areas than does the native population, especially in
the non-manufacturing sector. Some other studies show that immigrants are more
likely than the rest of the population to be self-employed and start their own
businesses.

'A Multiplier Effect'

"The question always seems to be phrased in terms of immigrants taking jobs from
Americans, when lots of Americans have jobs because of the impact of immigrants
on the economy," said Mr. De Freitas, who wrote "Inequality at Work: Hispanics
in the U.S. Labor Force." "Immigrant restaurants and businesses pay taxes, and
their workers buy clothes and food and homes in neighborhoods that were formerly
dead. There's a multiplier effect, but that doesn't always get captured."

In fact, a 1991 study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York found that the
male immigrant "faces on average significantly higher rates of average taxation
than do natives." Julian Simon, author of "The Economic Consequences of
Immigration" calculates that during their first three decades in the country,
immigrant families typically pay more taxes than their native counterparts and
on average contribute about $2,500 a year more in taxes than they obtain in
public services.

But the Federation for American Immigration Reform, citing other scholars, says
that such conclusions are based on outdated assumptions. George J. Borjas,
author of "Friends or Strangers: The Impact of Immigrants on the U.S Economy"
and an economics professor at the University of California at San Diego, argues
that the new wave of immigrants is not as skilled as its predecessors. As a
result, he concludes, the newcomers are more likely to become a burden on the
state than those who came before.

Yet data from the 1990 census indicate that while the education gap between
native-born workers and immigrants may have widened, newly arrived immigrants
are on the average more educated today than at any time in the past.

"There is absolutely no evidence that the quality of immigrants, which is really
just a measure of education, has declined," said Marta Tienda, a sociologist and
demographer at the University of Chicago. Mr. Borjas responded, "A rise in
absolute levels of schooling is meaningless unless you compare it to something,
and my base of comparison is with natives, who are clearly more skilled than
immigrants."

Nor does it appear that immigrants make use of services like welfare or
unemployment benefits with significantly greater frequency than natives. "The
reason is that these people for the most part are migrating for labor, and when
the jobs are not forthcoming, there is a strong tendency for return migration,"
said Douglas Massey, a University of Chicago sociologist who studies immigration
from Mexico, the country that supplies the largest number of new arrivals. Most
of those who are here illegally are afraid of any entanglement with government,
researchers say. Legal immigrants waiting for their green cards know that use of
such programs can lead to deportation or jeopardize their chances of sponsoring
relatives for immigration.

Allocating Funds

Nevertheless, to Governor Wilson and his allies, the foreigners who come here
are "drawn by the giant magnet of Federal incentives" that reward immigrants "by
requiring the states to provide and pay for the exploding costs of their health
care, education and other benefits." Those arguments echo the findings of a
study published late in 1992 by Los Angeles County, which concluded that
immigrants had in the previous year incurred costs of $947 million for social
services ranging from health care to public housing, while contributing revenues
to the county only $139 million.

Immigration advocacy groups and scholars have been critical of the study and its
methodology, however. For instance, the study defined immigrants as the 2.3
million people who had arrived, legally or illegally, since 1980, and lumped
earlier arrivals with the rest of the population. Research has shown, however,
that "the longer immigrants are in the country, the more they contribute to the
economy," and the more prosperous they become, Mr. De Freitas said.

Still, even under the narrow definition used by the Los Angeles authorities, a
closer look at the study finds inconsistencies, including data showing the
county's immigrants gave more than they took. The county study concluded that
immigrants paid $4.3 billion in taxes in 1991, but used only $2.5 billion in
public services -- a net contribution of $1.8 billion to government.

The real problem, it would appear, is that most of the taxes immigrants pay end
up in the hands of the Federal government, with little of that bonanza actually
returning to the areas where immigrants live. "The solution to that is to change
the distribution policy, not blame the immigrants," Mr. Simon, a professor of
business at the University of Maryland, said. "Get the people in low-immigrant
areas to cough up their unwarranted gains."

That imbalance illustrates a point about immigration often forgotten: while the
debate is national, the flow is concentrated in a few places. There are
scattered pockets of new arrivals -- Colombians in Central Falls, R.I., for
example -- but more than three quarters of all legal immigrants live in six
states: California, Florida, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Texas. Add
illegal immigration, and the proportion in those states rises to perhaps 90
percent, demographers say.

Yet until Governor Wilson spoke out, the members of Congress leading the charge
for restrictions on immigration came from places like Wyoming and Kentucky,
which have little direct experience with immigrants. All of which suggests that
the immigration policy the nation ultimately chooses is likely to be dictated
more by emotion and politics than logic or hard numbers. As Robert Reich, now
Mr. Clinton's Secretary of Labor, wrote in 1990, when it comes to immigration,
"economics is no help at all in telling us what we should do, or why."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Arab-owned grocery store in Dearborn, Mich. Studies have
shown that immigrants are more likely than most Americans to be self-employed
and to start businesses. (Ralf-Finn Hestoft/Saba)

Graph: "Immigration Realities" shows wages and education of recently arrived
immigrant men (Source: George J. Borjas)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 3, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Ecuadorean Immigrants Finding Obstacles in Their Path

BYLINE: By ANN COSTELLO

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 23; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1660 words

DATELINE: OSSINING


"I HOPE to go home someday," said the neatly dressed young man. "The problems of
this country are too great for me to stay. There is too much discrimination
here."

Francel Aguirre, a slightly built 27-year-old Ecuadorean, spoke quietly about
his life as a member of the village of Ossining's largest group of new
immigrants. He was surrounded by the friendly faces of fellow members of his
English-as-a-second-language class, in the Ossining School District Office on
Croton Avenue.

The village of Ossining has one of the largest concentrations of Ecuadoreans in
the county; there are also growing populations in Croton-on-Hudson and
Peekskill.

The teachers of English as a second language had organized a lunchtime party to
celebrate their students' progress and allow them to share native foods. The 20
people included a man from Mexico City, a woman from Korea, a woman from Japan
and a man from Bangladesh.

Mr. Aguirre said: "The different races cannot live together here. They must
always stay apart. Ecuadoreans are victims of so many things, and we can say
nothing. We don't do anything bad. We just work hard, and they give us a hard
time."

Census Figures Analyzed

Outside the shelter of such institutions as the English-as-a-second-language
classroom, Mr. Aguirre and his fellow Ecuadoreans say they are often victims of
crime and discrimination.

According to 1990 census figures, the white population in the village of
Ossining grew at a rate of 2 percent between 1980 and 1990. The population of
nonwhites, as the census report puts it, grew by 44 percent, and the Hispanic
population (which can be of any race) increased by 113 percent. By 1990, there
were 3,692 Hispanic people in the village, whose population at that time was
22,582. Many village residents estimate that there are at least several thousand
Ecuadoreans living and working in Ossining, legally or illegally, making them
the largest group of recent immigrants in the village. Of the village's 22,000
or so residents, 4,350 in 1990 were foreign born.

Ossining Union Free School District statistics show that, as of last March,
Ecuadorean children represented the largest immigrant group, with 35 newly
arrived students in a school population of 3,281. The next largest groups were
from Jamaica, Colombia, Peru, Portugal and Haiti.  Students who have lived in
this country for longer than three years are not counted in the yearly school
district new-immigrant census, so the actual number of immigrant students is
much higher.

Officials at St. Ann's School, one of two Roman Catholic schools in Ossining,
also say that their largest group of new immigrants is from Ecuador, with 11
children out of a total of 285 in the last school year.

But many Ecuadorean men come to Ossining without their families, work at
transitory jobs in landscaping and construction and are uncounted. As large as
the Ecuadorean population seems, it is hard to gauge without census designations
more specific than "Mexican, Cuban, Puerto Rican and other Hispanic" and without
children to be counted in the school census. There were 2,312 "other Hispanic"
residents in the village, according to the census.

Like many of them, Mr. Aguirre left his parents, two brothers and a sister at
home in Ecuador and has lived with his uncle and brother in an apartment near
the Sing Sing Correctional Facility for five years. A baker who works nights, he
said he had been denied a green card (the common name for the alien registration
card), but he said he would try again.

The card is obtained when either a close family member is a legal resident or an
employer files a petition with the Immigration and Naturalization Service asking
that the person be granted lawful permanent resident status. Some applications
are processed quickly. Some are more complicated. Many illegal immigrants fall
prey to fraudulent schemes promising a green card.

Mr. Aquirre said he was attacked while walking along Spring Street in the
village. His attackers yelled, "Speak English!" before roughing him up, he said.
He added that banks will not open accounts without Social Security numbers and
that Ecuadoreans are frequently beaten and robbed for their savings, which they
carry with them.

Anibal Gonzalez Jr., who is of Puerto Rican descent, is one of two Hispanic
police officers in the village of Ossining who have tried to explain American
life to the newest Spanish-speaking immigrants. He said, "If they're going to
get into trouble, it's because they're drinking and then driving, or sometimes
they wander into certain areas and guys will hassle them."

Mr. Gonzalez added: "We see them with their pockets torn and their faces bloody,
or the victims of a car crash, and they refuse medical care. They think the
hospitals won't treat their emergency needs.

"Or they refuse to report a crime to us. They're afraid of being found out if
they're here illegally and being deported. We try to straighten them out and
tell them that they have to trust the system a little more."

Reacting to the Ecuadoreans' fear of authority, Dr. Emil Nigro, director of
emergency medicine at the Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in neighboring North
Tarrytown, said, "We never, never turn anyone away." He said that not only does
his emergency room evaluate everyone who comes to them and treat them if needed
but that it also does not require identification or insurance. Only a few simple
questions are asked at admission and, Dr. Nigro added, "All records are
confidential." He added that in most cases hospitals must absorb the cost of
emergency room visits by illegal aliens.

Diego Santiago, a Colombian-born police officer who lives in Ossining, has
visited St. Ann's Roman Catholic Church on Eastern Avenue to tell Hispanic men
how to protect themselves. St. Ann's is known as the immigrants' church in the
community.

"Walk in groups, never alone," Officer Santiago said. "Don't drink to
drunkenness. Don't carry large amounts of cash. Don't be afraid of the police."
The Rev. Frank Oliverio has told these groups that they may feel free to keep
their strongboxes with their savings in his rectory, just across the street from
St. Ann's. About 350 Hispanic families attend the Spanish Masses at St. Ann's,
but the church also offers special Masses in Italian, Portuguese and Korean. St.
Ann's also serves many second- and third-generation Irish-Americans and
Italian-Americans.

Father Oliverio said he hopes to form a support group for Ecuadoreans and other
Hispanic men in this country without their families.

Not all Hispanic men are disillusioned. Luis Pani, a 31-year-old laborer, said
he has never been assaulted. "Maybe that's why I'm so happy here," he said.
Although he has been unsuccessful in obtaining a green card, Mr. Pani, a
bachelor, has formed a network of friends and made a life for himself in
Ossining.  He has become active in St. Ann's Church and has become a familiar
and popular figure in his English-as-a-second-language classes.

"America is a country of green fields, blue-eyed blond girls, wonderful summers
and houses with green gardens and lawnmowers," he said. "That is my dream, to
have a house in the suburbs, a wife, a couple of kids and a lawnmower that can
blow the leaves in the fall."

Marcia Siguenza, an Ecuadorean who recently moved to North Tarrytown after nine
years in Ossining, worries about the social havoc caused by the mostly male
migration from Ecuador. "It is sad, very sad," she said. "The men are coming to
this country without their wives. Sometimes they remarry here, but it is not
really a marriage. They do this because it helps them get a green card.

"It is breaking up the families in Ecuador. In some places in southern Ecuador,
there are no men, only women. And there are bad men who are selling visas for
too much, $4,000, which takes many years to pay off with interest."

Ms. Siguenza, who has an Alien Registration Card, the so-called green card, is
the supervisor of housekeeping at Kings College in Briarcliff. Her four grown
children have done well in life, she said. But she said she failed to understand
why so many young Ecuadorean men chose this country over their own. "They have a
nice, simple life in Ecuador," she said. "Maybe not with TV or cars. But there's
too much here. It's a big transformation for them, and they're not really ready
for it. They come mostly from the farms, from the countryside."

Jose and Zoila Illescas have four children they left in Ecuador in the care of
grandparents. The Illescases are both working, he in construction and she as a
housecleaner. They have green cards and eagerly await the day they can afford to
bring their children to the United States.

An Unofficial Protector

Carlos Castro, a constable and court officer, is a second-generation
Colombian-American who has lived in Ossining for 25 years. He is an unofficial
protector and adviser to the newest Hispanic immigrants who end up in the
village courtroom. He said he is appalled by their living conditions. "Many
homes have them stacked up inside," Mr. Castro said.  "But you wouldn't know it
from the street."

Frank Vardy, an immigration authority from the New York City Department of City
Planning, suggested that the Ecuadoreans are similar to the immigrant groups who
preceded them. Those Ecuadoreans who choose to return to their native country
are "much like the Italian 'birds of passage' from the late 1800's and early
1900's," he said.

"Those men came and lived cheaply and sent money home to the wife and children,"
Mr. Vardy said. "Then, after 5 or 10 years, they went home with a bankroll and
bought a farm or opened up a business."

Despite his steady job as a baker, Mr. Aguirre said he has been disillusioned
and feels estranged. He added that he must continue working hard, living simply
and watching his back if he is ever to be able to return home with anything to
show for his time here.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: THE IMMIGRANTS: This is the second in a series of articles on immigrants
in the county.

GRAPHIC: Photo: On a street corner in Ossining, Ecuadoreans waited for
prospective employers to drive up. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 13, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Surge in Advocacy Within Parent Groups;
P.T.A.'s Shift From Bastions of the Status Quo to Challengers of Authority

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 1443 words


Until recently the parents at Public School 154 in Flushing, Queens, played
little role in school life, split as they were into immigrant groups from 20
countries and harried by the demands of their jobs.

But last month, after school officials ordered P.S. 154 closed and the children
bused elsewhere until the building was certified to be free of asbestos, parent
leaders blanketed the neighborhood with pamphlets printed in Chinese, Spanish,
Arabic and Farsi, rallying scores of parents to a school boycott.

Overnight, school officials cut through the red tape, producing reports that
showed the school to be safe, and ordered it opened.

"The authorities took us seriously because we knew how to scream," said Valerie
Cohen, who became president of the school's parent association last year.

'Renaissance Occurring'



The tactics parents used at P.S. 154 show just how much times have changed from
the days when the P.T.A. organizations were essentially fund-raising.

A host of societal shifts, from the movement of women into the work force to new
arrivals of foreign immigrants, have radically transformed the P.T.A.'s of New
York and the nation.

If parent organizations in their heyday were mainly middle-class bastions of the
status quo that collaborated closely with school officials, today they are
smaller, scrappier groups with rainbow memberships that often challenge
authorities over everything from teacher hiring to classroom violence. After a
25-year decline in membership, there is now a resurgence.

"There is a renaissance occurring," said Jeanne Frankl, who recently retired as
executive director of the Public Education Association, an advocacy group. "The
movement that is emerging has the style of the 90's. It reflects the parents who
are in the school system now."

The surge in activism has manifested itself in a variety of ways in recent
years. After a knifing last year at Eastern District High School, Brooklyn
parents refused to allow their children to attend classes until school officials
increased security. In the Bronx, parents persuaded politicians through years of
protests and lobbying to give them a new school. At the High School of Graphic
Communication Arts, Manhattan parents forced teachers to back away from an early
dismissal plan that they said cheated students of classroom time.

The activism accelerated during the asbestos crisis. The police were called to
at least 13 separate parent protests on Sept. 20, the first day of school this
fall, and there was at least one school protest somewhere in the city virtually
every day during September.

"There's a lot of pent-up anger," said Ayo Harrington, president of the United
Parents Associations, New York's oldest citywide parents group.

Decline and Rebound

Nationwide, the most prominent group is the National P.T.A., with its
headquarters in Chicago, comprising of 27,000 school-based parent-teacher
associations. Although the National P.T.A. has registered the name "P.T.A.,"
many groups in New York City include teachers and call themselves P.T.A.'s even
though they are not affiliated with the national organization. Others that do
not include teachers call themselves Parent Associations.

Nationally and in New York City, membership in parent organizations peaked in
the 1960's before beginning a steady decline. The National P.T.A. had 12 million
dues-paying members in 1961. Twenty years later, membership had fallen to five
million; it has rebounded to seven million. While the baby boomlet of the 80's
means more children are in school, the P.T.A. attributes the new membership
chiefly to a rise in volunteerism.

Educators and academics said that powerful social and economic forces caused the
overall decline in membership. Driving the P.T.A. from its inception were the
energies of thousands of mothers donating their free time to their schools. From
1960 to 1990, that volunteer force shrank sharply as the percentage of American
women with jobs rose from 35 percent in 1960 to 54 percent in 1990, according to
census figures.

In New York City, the shifting fortunes of the United Parents Associations, a
citywide federation of school-based parent groups, reflected the changes.
Founded in 1921, the U.P.A. was a major force in improving the city's school
system in the 1930's and 1940's, and by the 1960's, it was a prosperous
organization with a largely white membership of some 400,000 members in 450
schools. Local chapters sustained neighborhood schools with cake sales and
raffles.

But the struggles over desegregation and decentralization of the late 1960's
weakened the U.P.A., often pitting parent organizations in largely black and
white neighborhoods against one another. Many white parents who had been U.P.A.
stalwarts left the city for the suburbs, and others devoted their energies
increasingly to their local school boards after the system was decentralized in
1970.

Twenty years later, the U.P.A. had disappeared completely from 250 schools and
only a handful of loyalists were active in many of the schools still affiliated.
The organization that once occupied a posh Madison Avenue headquarters with 16
paid workers was sharing a downtown office with several other nonprofit groups
and had no staff at all.

"The U.P.A. was in very hard times, almost a nonentity," said Jan Atwell, who
became a vice president in 1985 and who later, as its president, helped rebuild
the organization.

Growth in Voluntarism

The parent movement's recovery is taking many forms; vigorous new leadership is
one sign. Ms. Atwell's successor at the head of the organization is Ms.
Harrington, who was educated at Malcolm X Liberation College in North Carolina,
Ms. Harrington has sought to make up for the U.P.A.'s diminished numbers by
forcefully articulating parent concerns through the media.

The movement is recovering nationally, as well. "We're seeing new growth in
voluntarism, but of a different type," said Kathryn Whitfill, president of the
National P.T.A. More fathers are participating, and instead of bake sales, many
P.T.A. chapters are fighting for school financing by lobbying local governments,
Mrs. Whitfill said.

In New York City, new groups have emerged. One is the Parents Coalition, the
only citywide parents group with a full-time staff. Jon Moscow, its executive
director, said he helped found the group in 1984 because he saw that even as
parental activism declined over two decades, the power of the Board of Education
bureaucracy, the teachers' union and other special interests were growing.

"This is a struggle and the issue is parent power," Mr. Moscow said. "Unions
struggled to be taken seriously for workers, and parents have the same fight."

One instance in which the Board of Education failed to consider parents' needs,
Mr. Moscow said, came when the board persuaded the teachers' union to defer
wages during the 1991 budget crisis by establishing an annual, weeklong
midwinter break that gives teachers time off but is a nightmare for working
parents, who must arrange child care. The issue remains a source of bitter
contention with the school system.

But in June, parents' groups claimed a victory when the seven-member Board
approved extensive revisions to a 20-year-old document, known as the Blue Book,
which outlines the rights and responsibilities of the groups.

Perhaps the parent leader who worked most tirelessly for the revisions was
Lillian Lopez, a mother of two public school students and a member of the school
board in District 15 in Brooklyn. In many ways, Ms. Lopez's own story reflects
the evolution of the parents' movement.

Eight years ago, Ms. Lopez was just getting on her feet after two years of
homelessness, riding the subways with her infant son. When she joined the P.T.A.
at P.S. 15 in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn she found the group's focus on
candy sale fund-raisers to be irrelevant to the school's needs. Over years of
P.T.A. work, she changed the emphasis, starting an antidrug campaign in the Red
Hook projects and training parents to be classroom tutors and conflict
mediators.

Another mother who proved her leadership powers in school organizing is Juanita
Rodriguez, who came to prominence a year ago after a schoolhouse stabbing
ignited parent anger at Eastern District High School in Brooklyn. Ms. Rodriguez,
president of the parents association, led parents into a two-day boycott that
she called off only after wringing pledges from Board of Education officials not
only to tighten security but also to relieve crowding and to initiate other
programs, like a baby-sitting system for student mothers.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The authorities took us seriously because we knew how to
scream," said Valerie Cohen, who last year became president of the parent
association at Public School 154 in Flushing, Queens. (Sara Krulwich/The New
York Times) (pg. B1); Juanita Rodriguez, president of a parents association,
became known last year after a schoolhouse stabbing at Eastern District High
School in Brooklyn. (Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 24, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Secret Homes Are Found for Chinese Immigrants

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 405 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES


Two social service agencies are clandestinely placing 39 young Chinese
immigrants in foster homes across the country to keep them safe from smugglers
who are seeking repayment of smuggling debts, officials said.

The teen-agers arrived illegally from China's Fujian Province and were unclaimed
from Los Angeles County detention centers.

To insure the teen-agers' safety, only the Federal Bureau of Investigation and
the local police are being told where the agencies are placing the youths.

"Frankly, I don't want anyone knowing when these kids are being moved," said
Kenneth John Elwood, the assistant district director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

Most Youths Released

In recent months the immigration service has released most of a group of 160
arrested Chinese youths to people who identified themselves as relatives or
family representatives. Most have applied for asylum in the United States.

But no one came forward to claim the 39 teen-agers, who are being placed in
foster homes by the United States Catholic Conference and the Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service.

On Oct. 14 the Lutheran agency placed 20 teen-agers in three communities in the
West and Midwest. The police and the F.B.I. were consulted beforehand to insure
that the cities had no Asian organized crime, social workers said.

Central Mailing Address

"All the kids have been told that if they have concerns about their safety, that
we would encourage them to use a central mailing address, and that any phone
calls to relatives might in fact be traced," said Julie Macdonald, children's
services program director with the Lutheran agency.

The Catholic Conference placed 10 teen-agers in one Northwest city, said a
conference official, Mark Franken.

More than 160 children, ages 9 to 17, were arrested by the immigration service
after being smuggled by ship to Baja California, Mexico, the San Francisco Bay
area and other West Coast points earlier this year.

Ms. Macdonald said her agency had complained to the immigration service
headquarters in Washington about the case of a 17-year-old boy who had begged
social workers to prevent his release to a man who claimed to be responsible for
him.

The Lutheran agency told immigration officials in Los Angeles about the boy's
concerns, but when the agency received a list of teen-agers still in custody,
the boy's name was not on it, Ms. Macdonald said.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 25, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Warning: Hysteria Ahead

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


You are an immigrant from Ireland, five years in the United States. You and your
wife are expecting to become citizens soon.

Then one day you get a notice from the Government. It says a judge has found
probable cause to believe you are an "alien terrorist" and must be deported. It
is the first you have heard of the charge or the proceeding, whatever it was,
before the judge.

The notice says you are entitled to a hearing before you are deported. But you
discover, when you ask, that you cannot find out who accused you of being a
"terrorist" or what the accuser said you have done.

Unknown to you, the accuser is an old girlfriend. She told the authorities that
years ago, when you were 17, you were a member of an I.R.A. bomb squad. She
invented that story, but there is no way to show it is false because it is kept
secret from you.

Could such a travesty of justice occur in this country? It could if some
Republican members of Congress have their way. In their draft of a crime bill
they have a section that would set up just such a secret process to deport
people without ever telling them what they are supposed to have done or who made
the charge.

The bill would set up a special court of seven judges. Whenever the Attorney
General wanted to deport someone as an "alien terrorist," she could go to one of
the seven judges and say that the usual fair hearing would be a risk to national
security because classified information would be disclosed.

The judge would consider the Government documents in secret, without telling the
alien. In that one-sided proceeding the judge would decide whether there was
probable cause to believe that the alien was a terrorist who presented a risk of
death or serious bodily harm to others.

If the judge so found, then -- and only then -- would the target of the
proceeding be informed. There would be a hearing, but again the evidence would
be kept secret from the accused. The alien could appeal a decision to deport him
-- but not the decision to allow secret evidence.

That process sounds like a totalitarian invention to give the appearance but
none of the substance of justice. Once a judge has found reason to consider
someone an alien terrorist without even hearing from him, the chance of
upsetting that one-sided judgment would be near zero.

The limitation of secret proceedings to cases where classified information would
be disclosed is really no limitation at all. Millions of harmless documents are
routinely classified every year.

Concealing the names of accusers and their evidence is a sure way to injustice.
Americans learned that long ago, in the time of the Red scare, when Government
employees were often fired with no real chance to defend themselves.

There is a dramatic historic example in the immigration field of how secret
proceedings may go wrong. It involved a German woman, Ellen Knauff, who was
brought back by an American soldier after World War II as a war bride.

When Ms. Knauff reached the United States, she was excluded as a security risk
without being told the reason. Her case went to the Supreme Court, which by a
divided vote upheld the Government's right to act against her in secret because
entering aliens do not have the same rights as people inside the United States.

Justice Robert Jackson, a former Attorney General, wrote a memorable dissent in
the Knauff case beginning: "Security is like liberty in that many are the crimes
committed in its name." The case caused such outrage that Ms. Knauff was finally
given a hearing. It turned out the secret evidence came from a jilted former
lover and was worthless. She was admitted.

The Bush Administration proposed a similar bill two years ago for secret
deportation proceedings. But Republican senators dropped their support of it
when its unjust character aroused criticism.

Why revive such a dangerous idea now? The reason is obvious: growing public
animosity toward immigrants and fear of terrorism after the bombing of the World
Trade Center.

There have been periodic rages against aliens in this country, from the Alien
and Sedition Acts of 1798 and the anti-Catholic Know Nothings in the 19th
century to the Palmer raids of 1920. They have always left Americans feeling
ashamed of hysteria. On reflection, Republicans might think it wise not to try
to ride the back of today's hysteria.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 14, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Marital Status Ruled Irrelevant in Deportation

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 662 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Nov. 13


An immigrant's status as an unwed father was none of the Government's business
and should not have been cited as a reason to deport him after a drug
conviction, a Federal appeals court has ruled.

Citing recent laws that repealed previous bans on immigration by adulterers,
homosexuals and polygamists, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit said Congress had determined that "private sexual conduct among
consenting adults should no longer be considered a legitimate basis for making
immigration decisions."

In fact, the court said, a genuine parent-child relationship, regardless of
marital status, must be regarded under the law as a factor against deportation.

The court also said the Board of Immigration Appeals appeared to be taking an
overly narrow view of evidence of rehabilitation by an alien who has been
convicted of a crime.

The unanimous ruling, first released on Oct. 8, was reissued in amended form on
Friday.

The case involved Rigoberto Yepes-Prado, 38, an East Palo Alto resident and an
employee of a San Jose meat market. He entered the United States legally from
Mexico with his family in 1974 but has remained a Mexican citizen.

In 1986 Mr. Yepes-Prado pleaded guilty in Superior Court to possession of about
a half-ounce of heroin for distribution and spent eight months in jail. Under
Federal law, a noncitizen can be deported because of a drug conviction, but
deportation is mandatory only if the prison term is five years or longer.

'Anti-Social Behavior'

An immigration judge found several factors in Mr. Yepes-Prado's favor, including
a history of legal residence and employment, strong family ties and the lack of
any other criminal record, but he ordered deportation anyway. Besides the drug
conviction, the judge said Mr. Yepes-Prado had shown "anti-social behavior" by
fathering three children out of wedlock.

Asked why he had not followed the judge's previous order to marry the children's
mother, Mr. Yepes-Prado said the woman was not sure she wanted to marry.

The appeals court said the immigration judge should have disregarded Mr.
Yepes-Prado's marital status and considered his undisputed parent-child
relationships and economic support for his children as a positive factor. It
ordered reconsideration of the case by the Board of Immigration Appeals, which
had upheld the judge's ruling.

"Private sexual conduct between consenting adults cannot be considered as a
negative factor in an immigration proceeding, at least absent specific
Congressional authorization," said the opinion by Judge Stephen Reinhardt.

He said Congress had shown its intent since 1981 by repealing other laws that
prohibited immigration because of private sexual activity. Immigration law also
specifies that "a family relationship is to be counted as a positive factor,"
Judge Reinhardt said.

Lack of Criminal Record

In addition, he rejected the board's conclusion that no evidence of
rehabilitation appeared on Mr. Yepes-Prado's record. Rehabilitation can be shown
by an absence of criminal conduct after release from jail, Judge Reinhardt said,
noting that Mr. Yepes-Prado had no subsequent criminal record, had attended a
rehabilitation program and had submitted several testimonials to his good
character.

Mr. Yepes-Prado's lawyer, Martin Guajardo, said the ruling was important for
legal residents who have criminal convictions.

Because of the ruling, Mr. Guajardo said, "I think they now have a better chance
of being able to show rehabilitation and being permitted to stay in the United
States." He said the appeals court had also put immigration judges on notice
that family relationships were a positive factor, even if a judge considered an
immigrant "culturally misaligned."

Mr. Guajardo said that the Justice Department had told the court it wanted the
ruling reconsidered and that the department was awaiting instructions from
Solicitor General Drew S. Days 3d on whether to appeal further.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

From Afghanistan to the Bronx, Immigrant's Journey Ends in Gun-Trafficking
Charges

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1186 words


From the battlefields of war-ravaged Afghanistan to the underground railroad
millions of refugees took into Pakistan before coming to the streets of New York
City, the life of Fareedullah Nawabi could have been a blueprint for the
experience of many Afghans in America.

That is, until last week. Mr. Nawabi was arrested on charges that he has sold a
virtual arsenal of firearms, along with heroin and cocaine, to undercover police
officers at his business, Mama's Fried Chicken, in the East Tremont section of
the Bronx.

The arrest, coming as it did as Congress debated the Brady Bill, focused
attention on the easy availability of guns in many inner-city neighborhoods. But
it also casts a light on a man whose saga was typical among the people who fled
the last major armed conflict of the Cold War and reached the United States. It
also serves as a reminder that each wave of migration to this country, from the
Pilgrims on, has been motivated by trouble at home.

Like most of the 35,000 Afghans who live in the United States, Mr. Nawabi's
presence in this country is a legacy of the Cold War. For more than four
decades, emigres from Communist countries went to the head of the line for entry
into this country.

Sketchy Details of Life

"The Government was bending over backward for the Afghans, like the Cubans or
the Chinese," said Jeffrey S. Chase, an immigration lawyer in New York City who
worked extensively with Afghans.

The war between Soviet troops backing the Afghan government and Muslim rebels
supported by the United States sent refugees streaming over the country's
borders, primarily to Pakistan. At one time, international aid groups estimated
that there were more than three million Afghans in Pakistan, most in refugee
camps in border areas around the city of Peshawar.

The details of Mr. Nawabi's life remain sketchy, and what is known sometimes
only clouds the picture. For instance, investigators say he used several
aliases, but they do not know why. Prosecutors said that after his arrest, Mr.
Nawabi, who is being held without bail, insisted that his only address was
Mama's Fried Chicken, but his lawyer said he lived with his family in Flushing,
Queens.

Mr. Nawabi's family, who declined to be interviewed, was a part of that human
tide, moving from Kabul, the Afghan capital, to Pakistan in 1982, when he was 12
years old, according to Immigration and Naturalization Service records.

Each year, the Reagan and Bush administrations granted refugee status to more
than 2,000 Afghans living in Pakistan and India, and brought them to the United
States to live.

"They were giving refugee status to 125,000 people a year from the entire
world," said Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigration Rights Project of the
American Civil Liberties Union. "It was always heavily slanted to Communist
countries, but in the 80's, it became more so, and Afghanistan was added to the
list."

It was by this method that in December 1989, Mr. Nawabi and his parents were
brought to New York, the immigration service records show. Mr. Nawabi later
returned to Pakistan to retrieve his sister, and the entire family gained
permanent resident status in November 1991.

Mr. Nawabi's lawyer, Paul S. Brenner, said his client was one of the mujahedeen
-- or "holy warriors" fighting the Soviet-backed government and Soviet troops --
though he knew nothing about his client's involvement in the Afghan war. The
rebel groups had headquarters in Pakistan, and border crossing by their members
was common. Immigration and Naturalization Service officials said they could
neither confirm nor deny that Mr. Nawabi played a role in the fighting.

The magic word for Afghans seeking passage to a life in America, immigration
lawyers said, was mujahedeen, and a refugee with ties to the mujahedeen was
almost assured permission to live in the United States, they said. "You didn't
even have to have fought," Mr. Chase said. "You could say, 'I cooked for them,'
or 'I gave them money.' "

Afghan Growth

Mr. Chase said Afghans might even have been able to pick up enough war stories
in refugee camps to fake experience in the mujahedeen convincingly. Barbara
Nelson, an immigration lawyer with many Afghan clients, disagreed, noting that
asylum applicants were questioned extensively by Americans who knew a great deal
about the war.

In the last decade, Afghan neighborhoods sprouted up in Queens, particularly
Flushing and Kew Gardens Hills, and in Newark, Los Angeles, San Francisco and
northern Virginia. New York City alone has 2,785 residents who were born in
Afghanistan, according to the City Planning Department.

Mr. Brenner said the Nawabi family settled in Queens, which has the largest
Afghan neighborhood in the Northeast.

Even Mr. Nawabi's choice of a legitimate business was typical for Afghans, many
of whom operate fried chicken stands, primarily in Queens, Manhattan and the
Bronx. "It's like Koreans with markets," said Naim Saidi, an Afghan-born
importer and interpreter. "When one starts, he gives jobs to friends and they
get started in the same business."

Besides the flow of Government-sanctioned immigrants, each year during the civil
war, hundreds of Afghans arrived here on their own and applied for asylum. Most
flew into New York or Los Angeles, with false documents bought in the black
markets of Peshawar and Islamabad, the capital of Pakistan. Others came on
short-term visas and applied for asylum when the visas ran out.

In the 1980's, immigrants who reached American soil and applied for asylum stood
a chance of about one in five of getting it. Until the fall of the Communist
Government in April 1992, more than half the Afghan applicants were given
asylum, and in some years the odds were better than 2 to 1.

Mr. Saidi, who moved to the United States in 1970, said that Afghans who
emigrated before the war tended to be wealthy, urban and well-educated, while
those who fled the fighting were more evenly divided between the rich and the
poor, and between the cities and the countryside.

"The people who were brought up during the war, in Afghanistan or in the refugee
camps, they have no education, no cultural ties, sometimes even no religious
ties and no moral ties," he said.

What fallout that chaos has rained on American society is the subject of sharp
disagreement among people who work with Afghans. Mr. Chase said that entry
standards for Afghans were so lax during the war that no doubt "a lot of
criminals came in."

No figures on crime by ethnic group are available, but William Cook, supervising
investigator for the city's special narcotics prosecutor, said the number of
Afghans trafficking in guns and drugs was surprisingly high for the number of
people. But it is not surprising, he said, that former guerrillas, accustomed to
an underground existence where guns are readily available, should adapt easily
to illegal trades in this country.

But John Assadi, an immigration lawyer, Ms. Nelson and Mr. Saidi all insisted
that Afghans were no more likely than many other immigrant groups to become
involved in criminal activity.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 2, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

OLYMPICS;
No Quick Naturalization For Any Cuban Defectors

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 18; Column 5; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 531 words


The Olympic-caliber performers among the 40 Cuban athletes who have defected
from a regional competition in Puerto Rico would appear to have a slim chance of
becoming eligible to compete for the United States at the 1996 Summer Games in
Atlanta.

Five years' residency is the standard requirement for obtaining United States
citizenship, and the Atlanta Olympics are scheduled to open in two and a half
years. Unless they become naturalized citizens, the Cubans would not be eligible
to compete for Team USA in Atlanta.

Congress can grant a waiver of the five-year wait, but gaining accelerated
United States citizenship for athletic reasons is rare. For instance, exceptions
were not made for such athletes as Ivan Lendl, the tennis star, and Mark
Plaatjes, the world marathon champion.

"The reason Congress doesn't do it is that it would be beset with all kinds of
requests from others, some more meritorious than participating in an athletic
event," said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, adding that he could not remember a successful case for an athlete in
his 13 years with the immigration service.

Weight Lifter in Group

Among the Cubans defecting at the 17th Central American and Caribbean Games in
Puerto Rico were Lino Elias Ocana, the weight lifter who finished sixth in the
82.5-kilo (181.5 pound) class at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain,
and Conrado Cabrera, the cyclist who finished 13th in the points race in
Barcelona, a velodrome event in which racers are given points for their placings
after a designated number of laps over a distance of 50 kilometers.

Also defecting was Emilio Lara Rodriguez, the weight-lifter and younger brother
of Pablo Lara, a silver medalist in the 75-kilo class (165 pounds) at the 1992
Summer Games. Another Cuban defector was the country's top female softball
pitcher, Odalys Hernandez, and her departure will undoubtedly hurt Cuba's
chances in Atlanta, where softball will be a medal sport for the first time.

The group of defectors included athletes, journalists and officials. Citing
privacy and safety reasons, the immigration service declined to release a
complete list of names of the Cuban defectors, but apparently no high-profile
athletes were included.

American officials said it seemed less likely that top stars such as Omar
Linares, a baseball player, and Javier Sotomayor, the Olympic high-jump
champion, would defect because they are among those who receive the best care
from the Cuban Government. To placate athletes and get hard currency in return,
Cuba will allow two baseball stars to play in Japan next season, while several
top track athletes will be allowed to compete professionally for a club in
Spain. Boxing promoters have also begun exploring the possibility that Cuban
stars will fight professionally.

Meanwhile, the Olympic-caliber defectors have entered an athletic limbo. The
Cuban-American National Foundation in Miami said it would attempt to secure
accelerated citizenship for them.

"We understand it would have to be an act of Congress, but it has been done in
the past," said Francisco Hernandez, president of the foundation.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 29, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

California Trails U.S. in Growth

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 320 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 28


For the first time in two decades, California's population is growing slower
than the nation's as a whole, the Census Bureau said today.

Last July 1 there were 257.9 million Americans, 2.8 million more than a year
earlier. That translates into a population increase of 1.1 percent. Nearly a
third of the growth, 894,000 people, was the result of migration from other
countries, the bureau said.  Births accounted for the rest.

But California's population lagged slightly behind the nation's as a whole,
growing by 1 percent, to 31.2 million. Immigrants from abroad accounted for 95
percent of the state's growth.

In the 1980's, California grew twice as fast as the nation. But in recent years
California's huge aerospace industry has shrunk as the military cut purchasing
after the cold war ended. Heavy immigration has also contributed to a rapid
growth in the number of people looking for jobs.

"There are no longer rumors floating around elsewhere in the United States that
you can come to California and get a good job," said Peter Morrison, a
demographer with the Rand Corporation, a research institute in Santa Monica,
Calif.

Many Californians are migrating to states nearby like Washington, Oregon and
Arizona, Mr. Morrison said, adding that newcomers to California are mainly
younger people who provide a good work force for future growth. "They're more
like unemployed college graduates than economic refugees," he said.

Nationwide, Nevada was the fastest growing state, at 3.9 percent, followed by
Idaho, at 3.1 percent, and Colorado, 2.9 percent.

Two states, Connecticut and Rhode Island, lost population, by one-tenth of 1
percent each. The District of Columbia also lost population, by 1.2 percent.

The West was the nation's fastest growing region, at 1.7 percent, followed by
the South, 1.4 percent, the Midwest, seven-tenths of 1 percent, and the
Northeast, at one-half of 1 percent.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 21, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Victims of China's Birth-Control Policy Are Entitled to Asylum, a U.S. Judge
Says

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 970 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 20


A Federal judge ruled today that victims of China's coercive population control
policies were eligible for asylum in the United States, despite the Clinton
Administration's efforts to expel some of them.

The case involved a passenger on the Golden Venture, a vessel that ran aground
on a sand bar in New York Harbor on June 6. The 28-year-old passenger, Guo
Chundi (pronounced Gwo JUN-dee), said he had fled China because he and his wife
were resisting sterilization orders. He also said they feared persecution
because of their opposition to China's policy limiting them to only one child.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Mr. Guo had tried to enter the
United States without valid documents in violation of Federal law. And the
Justice Department said that opposition to coercive population control policies
was not a form of political opinion entitling a person to protection under
refugee laws.

But the judge, Thomas S. Ellis 3d of Federal District Court in Alexandria, Va.,
declared that "political opinion encompasses an individual's views regarding
procreation" because the right to bear children is one of the basic human
rights.

Involuntary sterilization as practiced in China is "an egregious infringement on
the fundamental right to procreate," Judge Ellis said. Accordingly, Mr. Guo's
opposition to China's population control policies "constitutes political
opinion" and thus he is eligible for asylum, the judge ruled. Mr. Guo's wife
remains in China.

Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said she
had no comment on the ruling. David M. McConnell, a Justice Department lawyer
who worked on the case, said the Government had not decided whether to appeal.

The ruling, though not binding on other judges, has potential significance for
hundreds of cases in which Chinese are seeking asylum in the United States. In
opposing Mr. Guo's plea for asylum, the Clinton Administration warned that its
approval could increase the smuggling of Chinese citizens in inhuman conditions
aboard cargo freighters like the Golden Venture, which resulted in the deaths of
at least six people.

118 Recently Deported

In the Reagan and Bush Administrations, three Attorneys General -- Edwin Meese
3d, Dick Thornburgh and William P. Barr -- ordered favorable treatment for
people fleeing China to avoid forced sterilization or abortion. Clinton
Administration officials withdrew one such directive, signed by Mr. Barr last
year. They now say they worry that they will encourage the smuggling of human
cargo if they are too generous to Chinese refugees.

The United States recently sent 118 Chinese back to their homeland after finding
that they had been smuggled into this country. Immigration officials said that
none of the 118 had arrived on the Golden Venture, but that some of them had
objected to China's restrictive birth-control policies.

In the last year, China has stepped up efforts to limit the growth of its
population of 1.2 billion people. State Department officials and Western
journalists have quoted peasants as saying that the Chinese authorities often
order the sterilization of women who have filled their quota of births.

But the Justice Department has said Congress had never intended to "afford
asylum eligibility to aliens who feared being subjected to their country's
coercive population control policies." In a legal brief submitted to Judge Ellis
last month, the Justice Department argued that involuntary sterilization was not
a manifestation of Communist doctrine, a punishment for Chinese dissidents or a
form of persecution on the basis of political opinion.

In the brief, the Clinton Administration and the Board of Immigration Appeals, a
unit of the Justice Department, said that Mr. Guo had not been singled out for
persecution; it said China's population control policies were applied equally to
all citizens.

But Judge Ellis, who was appointed by President Ronald Reagan in 1987, wrote:
"This argument is fallacious. Nothing in the Immigration and Nationality Act
precludes asylum for aliens persecuted by a government because of political
opposition to uniformly applied governmental policies."

Indeed, he said, the uniform policy of most totalitarian governments is to
persecute those who challenge the government's legitimacy. At a hearing on Dec.
10, Judge Ellis scorned the Justice Department's position, saying: "How many
people in Stalinist Russia could say, 'Hey, this is invidiously enforced against
us'? It was enforced against everybody. If you didn't like what he did, you went
to jail. He didn't play favorites."

Urged to Defer to Board

Since 1989, the Board of Immigration Appeals has repeatedly denied asylum claims
by people expressing a fear of persecution under China's population control
policies. The Clinton Administration urged Judge Ellis to defer to the board's
expertise on this issue.

But Judge Ellis said that "deference is appropriate only where an agency's
interpretation of its own statutes and regulations has been consistent." Courts
need not defer to the Justice Department on this issue because there has been a
"cacophony of administrative voices," he said.

Judge Ellis said that Mr. Guo and his wife showed their opposition to China's
population policies by refusing to comply with sterilization orders and by
fleeing from their home village in Fujian Province. The local government then
confiscated their property and destroyed their home, he said.

"It simply defies logic to contend that these governmental actions do not amount
to persecution," the judge said.

The ruling came from northern Virginia because the board has its headquarters in
Falls Church, Va., and Mr. Guo had sought a writ of habeas corpus to gain his
release from a jail in Winchester, Va.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 1, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Counting Californians

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 79 words



To the Editor:

In "The Mood Turns Ugly," my Jan. 26 letter concerning "The Unfair Immigration
Burden," your Jan. 11 editorial on illegal immigrants, I erred in saying two
million people would be .6 percent of the population of California. It would, of
course, be 6 percent. I still want to know how they are being counted and who's
counting them.

(Msgr.) E. JAMES PETERSEN
Executive Director
California Catholic Conference
Sacramento, Calif., Jan. 26, 1994

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 9, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

4 Drown as Haitians Land at 2 Beaches in Florida

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 509 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 8


About 75 Haitian refugees, apparently fleeing a campaign against them in the
Bahamas, landed on beaches in two South Florida counties early today, but at
least four other Haitians drowned as they tried to make their way to shore, the
authorities said.

United States Border Patrol officials said the bodies of two adults and two boys
about 5 years old were found before dawn after washing up at Jensen Beach, about
30 miles north of Palm Beach. Lloyd Lofland, a supervisor of the Border Patrol's
local anti-smuggling unit, said 23 other Haitians who had been on the same boat
as those who drowned were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

In a separate incident, the police in Palm Beach rounded up 33 Haitians,
including 19 children, after they landed just yards from Donald Trump's
Mar-a-Lago estate. According to a police report, an officer on routine patrol on
Monday night found five refugees walking down Ocean Boulevard, in a neighborhood
of mansions, and began a search that led to the apprehension in the same area of
the other Haitians.

Herbert Jefferson, assistant chief of the Border Patrol's South Florida unit,
said two other Haitians from the group were picked up today in St. Lucie County
after having hitchhiked north from the landing point in Jensen Beach, which is
in Martin County.

Mr. Jefferson said about a dozen Haitians were still unaccounted for and
presumed to be at large. He said the boat's passengers estimated that more than
40 people had been on board when the vessel landed.

Voyage From the Bahamas

Mr. Jefferson said the Haitians taken into custody in Jensen Beach told Border
Patrol officers that they had set sail from Freeport in the Bahamas but gave
conflicting accounts as to how long they had been at sea. He said the Border
Patrol was operating on the assumption that the Haitians had been taken into
American waters by professional smugglers in the Bahamas.

In recent months, large groups of Haitians have been arriving in Florida by boat
from the Bahamas, where a large and flourishing community of some 40,000 Haitian
migrants and refugees has developed. Last year, the Bahamian Government
instituted tough policies intended to force Haitians without proper documents to
leave the country and return to Haiti, which has been riven by strife since a
military coup toppled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide in 1991.

Human rights groups in the Bahamas say those new measures have led to an exodus
of desperate Haitian boat people from the islands of Bimini, about 50 miles east
of Miami, or Grand Bahama, 60 miles east of Palm Beach. Since the beginning of
the year, the pace of the departures has quickened, with an average of one large
boat landing in Florida every week.

Until now, most of those landings have occurred around Miami. But Mr. Jefferson
said refugee smugglers now appeared to be heading for areas farther north
because in those less populated areas "you have fewer police, immigration and
Coast Guard people and a greater likelihood of getting away."


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paramedics tending to Haitians in Martin County, Fla., after the
refugees, fleeing a crackdown against them in the Bahamas, swam ashore from a
boat offshore early yesterday. Four of the Haitians drowned. (Associated Press)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 12, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Russian-Language FM Is Window on 2 Worlds

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1100 words

DATELINE: FORT LEE, N.J.


Their voices crackle over the airwaves, some timid and creaky with age, others
brazenly curious. For WMNB-FM, each day brings a flood of calls from Russian
immigrants who want the inside scoop on this place called Amerika.

"Where is the cheapest place in New York to go dancing?"

"Should parents discipline a child who plays too much Nintendo?"

"Why has this Lorena Bobbitt gotten away with such a crime?"

The questions are posed to disk jockeys and talk-show hosts at WMNB, a
Russian-language radio station housed in a sleek office building near the George
Washington Bridge. From 8 A.M. to midnight, the station broadcasts news, music,
talk shows and live translations of American television programs for immigrants
who long to hear their native tongue.

Pavel Paley, a businessman who emigrated from Leningrad in 1979, started the
station in 1987, sending the first signals with amateur equipment. Mr. Paley's
audience grew quickly, and in 1991 David A. Moro, a New York investor, bought
the station and renamed it the Russian-American Broadcasting Company.

'Want to Feel Plugged In'

"We want to give immigrants ties to the old country," said Mr. Moro, who majored
in Russian at Williams College. "But more importantly, we want to give them a
window onto their new world."

Since the station operates on a special frequency, it can be picked up only with
a special receiver or a satellite dish. Subscribers pay an $80 installment fee,
and an additional $33 a month for service.

"We find people are willing to pay for this service, especially the elderly,"
Mr. Moro said. "They're lonely, and they want to feel plugged in to what's going
on."

WMNB is not the first radio station aimed at immigrants in the New York area. A
number of others broadcast in the native language of specific ethnic groups,
including Haitians, Indians, Irish and Puerto Ricans.

Mr. Moro says he hopes WMNB will eventually reach Russian immigrants throughout
North America. It started broadcasting by satellite in 1992, and reaches 25,000
households in 12 cities.

Most of the 17,000 subscribers in the metropolitan area live in Brighton Beach,
Brooklyn, where Russian immigrants are estimated at 60 percent of the
population.

'Like 2 Different Planets'

"Our countries are like two different planets," said Iosif Sats, WMNB's program
director and a former theater director in Moscow. "It is very difficult for us
to combine past and present."

To bridge the cultural gap, the station devotes at least five hours a day to
simultaneous translation of American television shows, including "Murphy Brown"
and "60 Minutes." A program called "Radio School" teaches English, and WMNB
provides listeners with workbooks they can send to the station for grading.
Another program, "Legal Corner," gives tips on immigration procedure.

Once a week, a psychologist, Yelena Leventhal, offers a quick fix for the
melancholy Russian soul: a talk show called "The Art of Being Happy."

Mary Ayzenberg, 85, who moved to Rego Park, Queens, from Moscow in 1980, listens
to WMNB several hours a day. "We have been subscribers from the very beginning,"
she said, adding that she and her husband Avram, 93, spoke little English. "I
can't imagine how we would manage without it."

Russian News and 'Hard Copy'

No matter how well they adjust to life here, most Russian immigrants want to
keep up with events back home, Mr. Sats said. So WMNB broadcasts news live from
Moscow, and its reporters interview prominent figures in Russian politics and
culture. Talk-show hosts scrutinize Russia's relations with the rest of the
world.

"Our people cannot live without politics," Mr. Sats said. "We can debate for
hours and hours. We all think we know how to save the world."

WMNB's listeners also crave American culture. Leonid Grigolia, a production
manager and translator, said they are mesmerized by programs like "Hard Copy"
and "All My Children."

"When I translate such shows on the air, the phones stop ringing for once," said
Mr. Grigolia, a native of Tbilisi, Georgia, who used to translate for the former
Soviet Academy of Science. "The audience is engrossed."

But the silence is fleeting.

"After 'All My Children' they demand to know who was Erica's first husband and
why they parted," Mr. Grigolia said, admitting that he sometimes fudges the
answers. "After 'Hard Copy' they call to complain about this Tonya Harding."

Frightened of Nationalist

To take its programming beyond the talk-show circuit, WMNB has six reporters in
New York and one each in Israel and Canada. Last month, a reporter traveled to
Moscow to interview its latest political phenomenon: the ultranationalist
Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky.

"Russian people in New York are frightened of this man," Mr. Sats said. "The
Jewish immigrants fear for their relatives back home."

WMNB reporters have also interviewed Russian cabbies in New York ("Do you dream
of finding a better career?"); the emigre poet Joseph Brodsky ("Will you ever
pay a visit to our homeland?") and the man who was in charge of preserving
Lenin's body in its Red Square tomb ("Was it really his body, or was it fake?").

Since most WMNB subscribers are elderly, the Russian-American Broadcasting
Company is working hard to attract younger immigrants, Mr. Moro said. In 1992,
it started a premium-service television channel that broadcasts movies and live
news from Moscow. The fledgling channel, which has 6,500 subscribers, also
features local news, documentaries and talk shows.

Russians Are Nationwide

Last month, the company started a daily, half-hour segment on the International
Channel Network, a premium cable channel.

"We want to interest people of every age and background, and not just in
Brighton Beach," Mr. Sats said. "Brighton Beach is very important to us, but
Russians also live in Queens, Washington Heights, Jersey City." Boston, Chicago,
Los Angeles and Philadelphia also have large Russian populations, he said.

Mr. Sats, who wears a bushy mustache and stylish suit, can spout statistics
about Russian immigrants in every part of the country. But he much prefers to
discuss his journalistic endeavors.

He has never come face to face with Boris Yeltsin, but he asked Mikhail S.
Gorbachev a question at a news conference. He recently traveled to Ukraine for a
story on Chernobyl, and he plans to cover Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn's return to
Russia in May.

But Mr. Sats says he is also anxious to interview some high-profile Amerikantsi.

"We have many great possibilities coming up," he confided. "In April, we might
get Larry King."

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: From a studio near the George Washington Bridge, a
Russian-language radio station tries to provide insight into the listeners' new
homeland. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Jewish Emigres With High Hopes

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

SECTION: Section 13WC;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1628 words

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON


RITA and Yuri Shneider left behind their professions, their homeland and an
extended family when they and their two sons boarded a flight to Kennedy
International Airport in 1991. On the pretext of taking a vacation, the four
Jews from the former Soviet Union disembarked in New York City with only their
suitcases and a few photographs from their past to begin the new life they had
secretly planned for years.

"For the children, we did this for them," said the 35-year-old mother, who was a
doctor in a small town near Riga in Latvia. "We said we were coming only to
visit, but really we never planned to go home."

Emblematic of their dreams, there are now seven trophies displayed on top of the
television in the family's tiny living room here. The awards belong to
9-year-old Dimitri, their oldest son, who recently won a series of regional
chess championships.

Dr. Shneider, the mother, smiled and said: "You see, it says: 'Dimitri Shneider:
First Place.' Anything is possible here."

The Shneiders are one of about 75 Jewish families from the former Soviet Union
who have arrived in Westchester recently, said Dr. Gene Sosin and Gloria Donen
Sosin, who have written a guide for newcomers in Russian and English called
"Welcome to Westchester."

These families are part of a new wave of immigrants resettling in the United
States to escape growing anti-Semitism and a difficult economy in the former
Soviet republics. The recent immigration figures, 32,204 Jews from the former
Soviet Union last year, are higher even than during the late 1970's -- before
the normalization of relations between the Soviet Union and the United States,
when large numbers of refugees fled for political reasons.

Robin A. Grenell, chairman of the Russian services committee of the Mosholu
Montefiore Community Center in the Bronx, a resettlement center, said, "These
new people are not like Anatoly Scharansky," referring to the former Soviet
dissident and human rights champion who immigrated to Israel in 1986. "The
current group of immigrants needs to eat. They are not refugees of conscience.
They come here to get ahead."

The new nationalism in the former Soviet republics worked against many like the
Shneiders, who grew up in Ukraine and later moved to Latvia to work and raise a
family. Mr. Shneider, 37, a chief engineer of repairs for a Baltic rail system
in Latvia, was dismissed from his position shortly after the country's
independence, and his job was given to a native Latvian.

Dr. Shneider said she, too, had expected to lose her job at the clinic where she
was a doctor of sports medicine. "We became like extra people for them," she
said. "Although we did not like Communism, things were more stable for us then."

Also, the intensifying nationalism, combined with economic instability in the
former republics, said Dr. Misha Galperin, associate executive vice president
for the New York Association for New Americans, "has unleashed a new wave of
anti-Semitism among individuals and fringe groups that is not untypical in times
of economic difficulty."

He added, "Traditionally, Jews have been singled out for blame in such
circumstances." The association is one of the largest refugee-resettlement
organizations in the country.

Many Jewish refugees live in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx, where resettlement
groups help them learn English, adjust to a new culture and find jobs. But
Norman Levine, director of field service for the international Hebrew Immigrant
Aid Society, said there was no way to determine the number of refugees living in
the New York City area, and the Census Bureau said it does not keep figures
based on religion.

No Close Relatives in the U.S.

Ms. Grenell, however, estimated that there were 7,500 Jewish refugees living in
the Bronx, and she said the figures for Brooklyn and Queens were substantially
higher. Some unofficial estimates place the number of Jewish immigrants from the
former Soviet Union in New York City at 65,000 and the number for the entire New
York City area at 150,000.

Jewish refugees living outside metropolitan areas have little access to services
provided by resettlement organizations, and Ms. Grenell said: "In a real sense,
they have to hit the ground running. They tend to go it alone in areas like
Westchester, where there is little sense of a Russian Jewish community."

Although most Jews from the former Soviet Union begin the emigration procedure
formally through the American Embassy in Moscow, the Shneiders used their
visitors' visas to leave, because they had no close relatives in the United
States as required for refugee status (cousins are not considered immediate
family members). Since arriving, they have applied for green cards, which will
allow them to continue living and working here. But they are also officially
seeking political asylum so they can obtain permanent-residency status.

Temporary Working Papers

A green card is an indication of legal permanent residency. An immigrant can
apply for the card after one year of residency in this country. Immigrants like
the Shneiders, who came on visitors' visas, must first obtain political asylum
status before becoming eligible for a green card. The Shneiders have temporary
working papers while they wait for a ruling on their application for political
asylum.

The Shneiders settled in this riverfront village -- a suburban community of
10,000 people, which they said reminds them of home -- to be close to cousins
who live here. Also, because they immigrated with visitors' visas, they did not
work through established immigration channels, which might have encouraged them
to find housing and jobs in New York City.

"Families that settle in the county tend to be risk takers," said Dr. Howard
Rubin, director of the Westchester Jewish Conference, an umbrella organization
representing 86 synagogues or other organizations. "But being in a place like
this also tends to accelerate their assimilation, because they aren't speaking
Russian 24 hours a day as they might in Brighton Beach."

Dr. Rubin said that "even though there is no center for emigres here, for the
most part, Russian Jews in Westchester are faring well."

Initially, Dr. Shneider worked as a baby sitter and house cleaner, but she is
now employed by the physical-therapy department of Northern Westchester Hospital
Center in Mount Kisco. She is also studying for a degree in physical therapy at
Mercy College and is taking an English-as-a-second-language course there as
well.

A Son in Ukraine

Mr. Shneider works for All Makes Heating and Air Conditioning in Eastchester and
is taking technical courses offered by the Board of Cooperative Education
Services so that he can advance in his job.

Their sons, Igor, 6, and Dimitri, attend Hillside Elementary School. Polina
Shneider, Mr. Shneider's mother who lived in Israel, has since joined the family
here, and she is responsible for most of the cooking and child care while the
parents work and study.

In Dobbs Ferry, Vera Fedorovskya, 47, also immigrated to the United States on a
visitors' visa, although she had originally planned to return to Ukraine, where
her 24-year-old son lives.

"It was a bad life for Jews there," said Ms. Fedorovskya, an accountant. "My
eyes just opened when I came in 1990, and I did not want to go home."

She now works as a bookkeeper for Children's Village in Dobbs Ferry, where she
has an apartment, and has applied through the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society for a
green card. Although she said she is alone much of the time and worries about
her son, she added that she is glad she lives in the United States.

Responsible for One Another

In part, a local synagogue, the Greenburgh Hebrew Center in Dobbs Ferry, has
provided a support network for the Shneiders and Ms. Fedorovskya.

"It gives the congregation a sense of fulfilling several commandments of the
Jewish tradition," Rabbi Barry Kenter said. "There is an overarching concept
that all Jews are responsible for one another."

Even though they have established themselves in homes and new jobs since
arriving and have made new friends, the Shneiders and Ms. Fedorovskya -- like
many Jewish refugees -- have experienced setbacks professionally since leaving
their homeland. Dr. Shneider is not pursuing her career as a doctor because, she
said, she cannot afford to take time out to study for American medical exams or
for the required medical residency.

Mr. Shneider said he was grateful to find a job in a related technical field and
was willing to retrain.

And Ms. Fedorovskya said that she, too, was happy to be supporting herself here,
even though it meant starting over again in her field.

In terms of their backgrounds, adjustments to a new country and their
aspirations for the future, Mr. and Mrs. Shneider and Ms. Fedorovskya are
typical of many Jewish refugees from the former Soviet Union, immigration
specialists said.

As a group, these emigres tend to be technicians and professionals in
white-collar jobs, with strong educational backgrounds -- computer programmers,
engineers, nurses, doctors, bookkeepers and teachers, Dr. Galperin said. Some
are entrepreneurs -- owners of food stores, nightclubs, taxi and limousine
services -- and only a few rely on public assistance during the first year, he
said.

He added that many emigres "experience a sense of loss at first."

But a follow-up study by the Council of Jewish Federations and the City
University of New York showed that over a 10-year period most refugees from the
former Soviet Union make up for their initial setbacks. Within a decade, the
average family income for the emigres reached $34,000, compared with the $29,000
average for all American families, according to the 1990 study.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rita Shneider and her son, Igor, at their Hastings-on-Hudson
home, where they have lived since leaving Latvia in 1991. (Chris Maynard for The
New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ART;
Redefining 'Immigrant' In the Bronx

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER

SECTION: Section 2;  Page 32;  Column 1;  Arts & Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 922 words


THE SOUTH BRONX STUDIO OF the Peruvian artist Kukuli Velarde is filled with
terra-cotta figures of concupiscent cupids, Indians impaled on crosses, and
altars to her own saint: the long-suffering Latin American wife, her heart
pierced with nails and her face covered by a smiling mask with the Anglo
features that the saint's husband prefers.

"I decided it's better to be dramatic in my work and not in my life," Ms.
Velarde says, pouring mugs of strong coffee in her adjoining apartment. On this
point she is not convincing. It isn't every artist, after all, who has had her
work in clay, the material used by her ancestors, approved by Mother Earth,
speaking through an Incan priest. ("Maybe it wasn't true," she says, smiling,
"but it was a nice ceremony anyway.")

But like others of the 30 artists whose work is displayed in "Beyond the
Borders: Art by Recent Immigrants," an exhibition that opened on Friday at the
Bronx Museum of the Arts, she finds that the experience of immigration has
transformed her work in unexpected ways.

Ms. Velarde, 31, came to the United States as a refugee from a broken love
affair, but stayed on to mine the themes of her own culture with a freer hand,
irreverently reinterpreting the pre-Columbian and folk art of her country in
works like a "First Love," a portrait with two faces -- both of them hers -- one
of a naive romantic, the other of a broken-hearted cynic.

From a distance, she said, the "colonized" mentality of a Latin American
yearning to be American or European has become clearer to her, and she has
become all the more Peruvian in her art. At the same time, she says, it is
easier for her as an expatriate to criticize Latin American history.

Artistic freedom was a more concrete concern for Emilya Dunayets, a Ukrainian
artist. She says that she and her husband, Ilya Zomb, a painter, were unable to
work freely under the Soviet regime, and they left in 1989.

In their Brooklyn apartment, a painting that is a takeoff on the Russian
matryoshka dolls that fit one inside of the other shows her niece as a grown
woman, holding hands with progressively younger versions of herself. The light
dims over the woman as she ages, "heading to the darkness of old age," she said,
"and the natural depression that makes old people say everything was better
before."

Compared to her earlier work, she said, this piece is cheerful. "In Russia we
were always humiliated. Because we are Jewish everybody could say bad words to
us, and here nobody cares," said Ms. Dunayets, who is 33. "I feel younger, and
all my works, they got color. Before, in Russia, I had mostly dark work. Now
look at this red!"

Her earlier work shows funeral scenes of friends entombed, dead to art and to
life because they are unable to work as artists. In one new piece -- a
mixed-media work with acrylic paint and colored pencils -- a friend in a (red!)
wedding gown and several would-be grooms each stand alone in a forest, waiting
for the perfect mates that have yet to appear.

"In New York I got kind of a new attitude, and we think of New York as our real
home," she said. "It's like I can do everything."

Shirin Neshat, who left Iran at age 16, when she was sent to California to
study, discovered the source of her art not in leaving her country but in
returning there for a visit. In 1990, she returned to Iran for the first time in
16 years, and found a "completely new country." She was shocked at the treatment
of women, but also surprised to find beauty and meaning in the veils they were
now compelled to wear. She became intensely interested in veiling, both as a
metaphor and as a physical boundary, and the search for Iranian identity now
drives her work -- much of it photographs of herself in the traditional veils.

"Some feel it frees a woman because it makes men look at them as who they are
rather than as a sex object," she said, "but why should it be a woman's problem
that men cannot control their sexuality?"

The question remains unanswered for her, the subject not yet fully explored.

"In some ways I began doing this work not to do a body of work but to answer
questions for myself," she said. Her medium became her own body, "because I felt
in many ways the only thing I had was myself: I exist and I'm from there."

Some of her photographs feature those parts of the body that can be exposed in
Iran -- the eyes, the hands and the feet, covered with the writings of Iranian
women. Her newest work -- gun barrels included -- also explores the history of
Iranian women in the military. Americans, she said, often assume that her work
is simple criticism of a repressive government in her country. "People thought
that me wearing a veil was about "Get this off! I want to be naked,' but it was
just the opposite. It was saying there is beautiful feminine symbolism that
exists in Islam."

Like others in the show, Ms. Neshat said she was initially skittish about the
entire concept of "immigrant art." The Bronx Museum curators themselves had long
discussions about how to present the work without marginalizing it.

But Betti-Sue Hertz, guest curator of the exhibition, said she sees the artists
as "cultural mediators" between their countries and this country, moving back
and forth between two or more cultures in a way that is actually redefining the
whole idea of immigration.

"The word immigrant itself is in jeopardy. The notion is becoming problematic in
our post-modern reality," she said. "But this exhibit is about coming to the end
of that word."

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kukuli Velarde in her studio with "First Love," a
self-portrait--Distance has made her more Peruvian in her art. (Steve Hart for
The New York Times); "Women of Allah," by Shirin Neshat, from Iran -- Exploring
Iranian women's history in the military, as well as their writings. (Cindy
Preston)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 23, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Becoming American, Bad Habits and All

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B;  Page 7;  Column 4;  National Desk;  Education Page

LENGTH: 510 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Feb. 22


Immigrant children do better in school than their American-born classmates, but
their performance declines as they become more Americanized, a study says.

"The longer you are in the United States, the more you learn, among other
things, the bad habits, such as wearing headphones while studying or waiting to
the last minute to study for a test," said the author, Ruben G. Rumbaut, a
professor of sociology at Michigan State University. The study was announced at
the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Many studies have shown that the children of immigrants do better in school than
American children. This study, intended to help guide policy on education and
jobs for immigrant children, shows that as immigrant children become
Americanized they move in the direction of their American counterparts.

'Draw of American Culture'

Professor Rumbaut's study showed that foreign-born children who have lived in
the United States for 5 to 10 years had a grade point average of 2.58, higher
than that of American-born children of immigrants, who averaged 2.44 out of 4.0.
The study did not compare the immigrant groups with the children of
non-immigrants.

The foreign-born children spent an average of 2.59 hours a day doing homework,
compared with 2.40 hours a day among the American-born children. The figures are
based on an analysis of school records of 5,000 children in San Diego and Miami.

Judith Treas, chairman of the sociology department at the University of
California, Irvine, said other studies have found similar effects. "There does
seem to be this extraordinary draw of American culture for immigrant children,
not always with good consequences," she said.

Guillermina Jasso, a professor of sociology at New York University, said, "One
of the things we do know is that U.S.-born immigrant children outperform
American children."

In a new analysis of 1990 census data, Professor Rumbaut, who was born in Cuba,
found that the number of immigrants in the United States had risen to 19.8
million. "That's an all-time high," he said.

For the first time, the number of immigrants arriving from Latin America and the
Caribbean has surpassed the number coming from Europe.

By far the largest group is Mexicans, who make up 22 percent of United States
immigrants. Their performance is not as good as other immigrant groups.
Professor Rumbaut attributed this to low educational levels of Mexican
immigrants, poverty and discrimination.

Success for Asians

Among the most successful students are the children of Asian immigrants, the
fastest growing immigrant group in the country.

Vietnamese children, the top group, have a grade point average of 2.87 and spend
an average of 3.03 hours a day on homework.

Professor Rumbaut said it was important to help immigrant children because those
who cannot meet the educational requirements of the top jobs will be consigned
to the lowest-paying jobs.

The study was financed by the National Science Foundation and several private
foundations.


LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 25, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Class-Action Bias Suit by 500 Blacks At Immigration Service Is Approved

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 807 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24


Clearing the way for the largest discrimination case ever to be filed against
the Federal Government, a judge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
has ruled that more than 500 black employees may have systematically been denied
promotions and training at the Immigration and Naturalization Service over the
last 14 years.

The judge, Jane Goodman, ruled that about 550 agents and supervisors and an
undetermined number of former employees may join a class-action suit against the
immigration service. The Jan. 11 ruling, based on a preliminary review of the
facts, was sent to the Justice Department last week.

The suit charges the immigration agency with routinely blocking the promotions
of black employees and then creating a hostile climate for those who
participated in an investigation into the agency's personnel practices.

The Justice Department has 30 days to decide whether to reject the judge's
finding, a move that would open the way to an appeal at the Federal District
Court level. If the department does nothing, the case will go to Los Angeles,
where Judge Goodman is based, for hearings on the merits of the case in the
fall.

'Blacks Have Been Locked In'

John J. Washington, a senior special agent with the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and a spokesman for the 19 agents who filed the original
suit in November 1992, said today that the decision should prompt the Clinton
Administration to move swiftly to correct problems throughout the service.

"Blacks have been locked in with no chances of advancement," he said from his
office in Los Angeles. "An African-American can die from a bullet in the head or
in the heart just as much as a white man can. I think we also deserve the same
opportunities."

The ruling to expand the number of immigration service employees covered by the
suit makes the case the largest ever by Federal employees against an agency,
surpassing a similar class-action suit filed in 1991 by black agents with the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. That case covered about 540 black agents.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service suit covers those in the officer
corps, which includes Border Patrol agents, supervisors and others. According to
agency figures, about 5.6 percent of 11,000 corps employees are black, with few
blacks in the top ranks. For example, of supervisory inspectors there are 185
whites and 16 blacks; of those in criminal investigations there are 280 whites
and 9 blacks, and of Border Patrol supervisors there are 187 whites and 4
blacks.

Problems of Nuances Cited

As many as 500 black former officers could qualify for some compensation if they
worked at the immigration service and were denied promotion after 1980, the date
set by Judge Goodman for retroactive compensation.

Michael J. Coster, the associate general counsel at the Justice Department, said
he believed the immigration service and the Justice Department had a "sincere
interest" in finding a quick and equitable solution to the dispute. He added,
however, that the expansion of the complaint to a class action suit could
present problems because of the nuances of individual cases.

Mr. Coster would not estimate how much a settlement could cost the Government.
But David L. Ross, the lawyer for the original plaintiff, Norris Potter, said a
total could reach $50 million.

"For 15 years there hasn't been a black district director in the I.N.S.," Mr.
Ross said. "We are not asking for affirmative action or quotas. This is a
situation where they just have no blacks at all and it goes to a total violation
of the law."

Study of Hiring and Promotion

Charges of discrimination within the immigration service have been made for
years. Under the Clinton Administration, said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the
service, an internal task force was set up to study the service's hiring and
promotion.

In recent months, Mr. Austin said, at least four high-level appointments have
gone to black officers, including the assistant chief of the border patrol in
Miami and the deputy section chief of the border patrol in El Paso.

The internal task force report, however, contained a broad indictment of routine
practices. Released last June 16, it concluded that black officers were almost
systematically left out of the promotion loop.

Harry A. Thomas, a senior special agent based in Washington, said today's ruling
offered welcome relief to black agents throughout the system stymied in their
move up the agency ladder. "I think there have been a lot of empty promises
that, 'Yes, we'll try to fix the problem.' But nothing definitive ever happens,"
he said. Mr. Thomas, who is black, had applied for 70 promotions at the
immigration service and was rejected in each instance. He had been rated as
qualified for each of the positions to which he applied.


LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 25, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Visa Ban on H.I.V.-Infected To Be Waived for Gay Games

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B;  Page 4;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 731 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 24


The Clinton Administration is expected to waive the rule that bars foreigners
with the AIDS virus from entering the United States to accommodate athletes and
spectators planning to attend the Gay Games in New York in June, officials in
several Federal agencies said today.

The State Department actually took the first steps toward issuing the visas, but
suspended the effort after the Justice Department said it had not yet approved
the waiver.

The Department of Health and Human Services and senior officials of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service are urging the Justice Department to
grant the waiver, after numerous gay groups asked the Administration to remove
obstacles to the games. Sponsors say they expect 15,000 athletes from more than
40 countries.

Attorney General Janet Reno said today that she had not yet made up her mind on
the subject, a matter of great political sensitivity. But several officials said
she is expected to give her approval as a way of allowing the Administration to
make a gesture to gay groups that have attacked Mr. Clinton over his policy on
homosexuals in the military and his failure to meet a campaign promise to lift
the visa restrictions permanently.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is already developing plans on the
most efficient way to grant the waivers. Under American law, visas are denied to
anyone with a "communicable disease of public health significance," a
requirement that includes infection with H.I.V.

Making an already delicate situation something of a public embarrassment, the
State Department sent cables on Wednesday to embassies and consulates around the
world, telling them to grant blanket 30-day waivers to people attending the Gay
Games. After the Justice Department objected, the State Department said today
that the cables went out in error and rescinded the instructions.

"The person over at State who sent that message simply misunderstood the status
of things," said Carl Stern, the Justice Department spokesman. "The cable was
quite premature. No one has signed anything yet."

'Bureaucratic Foulup'

David M. Smith, spokesman for the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force, said, "It
was a bureaucratic foulup, but there's no reason to believe that Janet Reno
won't ultimately approve this request."

One Administration health official said the Justice and State Departments, the
Immigration Service, and Department of Health and Human Services have all
informally agreed to grant the waiver, and that all that is needed now is formal
approval.

In a letter to the State Department urging that the waiver be granted, Assistant
Secretary of Health Philip R. Lee said: "Denial of entry to persons with this
disability, even though they are physically able to compete in a demanding
sport, would be directly contrary to the public health policies of supporting
participation by individuals with disabilities in our society." Dr. Lee also
said granting the waiver would avoid "the stigmatization of persons with a
particular disease."

Lobbying for the Waiver

Several gay groups have lobbied Dr. Lee to push for the waiver. If the waiver is
approved, it will be the first time that such a waiver has been used for
something other than a medical conference. Blanket waivers were granted in 1990
for a conference on hemophilia in Washington and for an AIDS conference in San
Francisco.

Administration officials acknowledge that granting the waiver could improve ties
with gay voters, many of whom were angry that Mr. Clinton backed down from his
original promise to let homosexuals serve openly in the armed forces.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has prepared a letter to be sent to
Associate Attorney General Webster L. Hubbell that recommends the waiver and
says it would carry out the policy as quickly as possible.

The Gay Games will be held from June 18 through June 25 in conjunction with a
cultural festival and a gay rights demonstration at the United Nations.
Organizers of the event predict that the games will attract more than 100,000
spectators. Among the sites that will be used are Madison Square Garden and the
National Tennis Center in Queens.

Jay Hill, executive director of Gay Games IV, said, "We feel the ban on visas
shouldn't be there in the first place. We believe it's medically unsound.
Waiving it is a step in the right direction."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Studies on Immigrants Prove They'd Rather Give Than Receive

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 22;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 386 words


To the Editor:

Donald L. Huddle says that a column by Anthony Lewis and an article of mine are
"clearly wrong" in saying that (a) immigrants do not increase native
unemployment, and (b) they put more money into the public coffers in taxes than
they take out in welfare and public services (letter, Jan. 26). Not so.

Concerning unemployment: In the Wall Street Journal article that Mr. Huddle
mentions, I quoted verbatim the conclusions of the only six reputable studies
(plus my own) on the subject. All conclude that immigration does not displace
natives from jobs. None of the authors of those studies have asserted that the
quotation was improper, to my knowledge. In that article I also explained why
Mr. Huddle's own writing on the subject -- the only one that dissents from the
scholarly consensus -- is entirely without validity. (Mr. Huddle's writings are
analyzed at length in my 1989 book, "The Economic Effects of Immigration.")

Concerning the fiscal costs and benefits of immigration: Mr. Huddle notes my
calculation that on average both immigrants and natives put more into the public
coffers than they take out in individual public services. He claims that my
calculation that immigrants are net contributors must therefore be wrong because
both cannot be true.

But it is not the absolute net contribution of immigrants (whose calculation,
like that of natives, inevitably leaves out some nonindividual governmental
expenditures) that is the basis of my conclusion. Rather, the conclusion rests
on the fact that the net contribution of immigrants is relatively high compared
with that of natives; immigrants make greater net contributions largely because
they arrive when they are young and strong, rather than at ages when people
collect old-age benefits.

Both unemployment and welfare in connection with immigration are hot and
important topics. They are also difficult for the layperson to sort out based on
Op-Ed articles and letters to the editor. To clarify the matter, I invite Mr.
Huddle to bring his work and mine -- and others, as appropriate -- before a
"science court" of economists chosen by, say, the American Economic Association.
The person whose work is found less valid would be bound to pay the court's
expenses.

JULIAN L. SIMON
College Park, Md., Feb. 15, 1994

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                February 27, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Feb. 20-26: Internal Barriers;
Immigration Service Faces A Bias Suit by 550 Blacks

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section 4;  Page 2;  Column 3;  Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 219 words


As it has tried to stem a tide of illegal immigrants -- many of them black and
brown -- the Immigration and Naturalization Service has had a reputation as one
of the whitest of Federal agencies, especially in the supervisory ranks. An
internal report last June noted that despite efforts at diversity, the service
"has been unsuccessful with respect to the recruitment, employment and
advancement of African-Americans."

It may soon be forced to change: A judge's ruling, made last month and disclosed
last week, makes I.N.S. the target of the largest discrimination case ever filed
against the Federal Government.

An judge with the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission ruled that 550
black I.N.S. agents and supervisors, as well as black former employees, could
join in a class-action bias suit against the agency. They allege that the
service routinely blocked promotions of blacks and created a hostile climate for
those who sought to have their claims investigated.

The ruling clears the way for the plaintiffs to press their claims before the
E.E.O.C. or in the Federal courts. It also presents President Clinton with a
civil rights headache.

The Administration has 30 days to decide whether to appeal. It could seek a
settlement, but that might not be cheap.   STEVEN A. HOLME

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 4, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

An Ancient Ritual and a Mother's Asylum Plea

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 25;  Column 3;  National Desk;  Law Page

LENGTH: 1442 words

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore.


In trying to deport Lydia Oluloro, the Federal Government has presented a simple
case. A native of a tiny Nigerian village, Mrs. Oluloro came to Oregon in 1986
and lied when she said she would stay no longer than her one-year tourist visa
allowed.

Mrs. Oluloro, who works as a janitor for $6.25 an hour and says she loves the
Oregon rain, concedes the Government its basic point. But she has raised a
defense that seizes on a growing international human rights issue and, if
successful, could set a precedent for other asylum seekers.

A mother of two American-born girls, ages 5 and 6, Mrs. Oluloro says they face
the certainty of genital mutilation by her relatives in Nigeria if she is
deported.

The ancient ritual, frequently referred to as female circumcision and widely
practiced in many African countries and parts of the Middle East, has been
condemned by human rights advocates and health professionals in the West as
barbaric and unsafe. It entails cutting away some part of a girl's genitalia
before the onset of puberty to thwart sexual appetite and so maintain her
virginity and enhance her appeal as a marital partner.

'These Are American Girls'

Federal immigration officials say this is the first time that the prospect of
genital mutilation has been raised as a ground for asylum, which by law is
generally granted only if the applicant can prove "a well-founded fear of
persecution based on race, religion, nationality, political opinion or
membership in a particular social club."

"I don't want them to get cut," Mrs. Oluloro said of her daughters, Shade, 6,
and Lara, 5, "because these girls are American girls. They are not like African
girls. It would be a horrible thing for them."

Mrs. Oluloro's unusual argument in support of her bid for asylum has been
advanced against a backdrop of an ever increasing number of asylum requests --
150,000 in the last year alone. There is now a backlog of 330,000 people trying
to win American asylum, and advocates of a tight immigration policy in
particular fear that creating precedents like the one sought by Mrs. Oluloro
would add many thousands to the list.

Lifetime of Pain

Mrs. Oluloro, who is now 32 and lives in Portland, says she herself was required
by her relatives in Ilobu, the little Nigerian village where she lived as a
girl, to submit to the ritual when she was about 4 years old. The result, she
says, has been a lifetime of intermittent pain, particularly during birth of her
two daughters.

She says her relatives in Nigeria have already told her that if her girls are to
avoid being shunned, they too must undergo the ritual, which in most cases
entails removal of the clitoris and the labia minora with a knife or a razor
blade, generally without anesthetic. The procedure is often performed by female
elders, who in the most extreme cases also stitch together the external labia,
leaving only a tiny opening for urination and menstrual discharge. Before a
woman's wedding night, the stitching is removed.

Many women who endure the procedure later experience not only an absence of
sexual sensation but also infections, recurring pain, particularly during
intercouse, and painful, dangerous childbirth.

Report by State Department

Nigerian Government officials, who have expressed opposition to the practice,
say their country's culture is not such that Mrs. Oluloro should fear her
daughters' being required to submit to the ritual if she returns with them. A
report issued last month by the State Department, however, suggests otherwise.

The report, on human rights abuses against women around the world, said that in
predominantly Christian southern Nigeria, Mrs. Oluloro's native region,
virtually all young girls were still subjected to genital mutilation, as were
about half the girls in the Muslim-majority north. In all, the report estimated,
there are now as many as 110 million women in the world whose genitalia have
been mutilated.

Mrs. Oluloro has won support from feminists and human rights advocates across
the the United States, but none from her former husband, Emanuel Oluloro. They
divorced last year.

Mrs. Oluloro arrived from Nigeria eight years ago to join him here. But Mr.
Oluloro, in the United States on an extended work visa, or green card, never
completed the paperwork that would have made her residency legal.

In court papers filed before their divorce, she said her life with him in
Portland had been torment, accusing him of spousal rape and of frequently
abusing her in other ways. She has been awarded custody of the children,
although he has said he would still like to have them.

Mr. Oluloro did not respond to requests for an interview. But he has denied
abusing his wife. And during a hearing in February before the immigration judge
who is considering the deportation case against her, he said that she had
previously supported ritualized mutilation and that her change of heart had
coincided with the Government's move to deport her. She denies that.

Excruciating Alternatives

By Mrs. Oluloro's account, a deportation order would pose an anguishing choice:
either take her children with her to Nigeria, where she says they face
mutiliation, or leave them with her former husband, who she says is abusive.

"I will take my kids if I am forced to go," she said. "They are my life, my best
friends."

But it is clearly a prospect she would not relish even if her daughters did not
face the danger that she says she fears. "Here in Oregon, I am an independent
woman," she said. "If I go back to Nigeria, I am not independent. No job. No
husband. I would be returned to my father's house. And I would have no say."

The immigration judge, Kendall Warren, has said he will announce his decision on
March 23. Mrs. Oluloro's lawyer, Tilman Hasche, says the odds are against her
gaining asylum, given the narrow criteria of the law. Further, the fear of
mutilation that Mrs. Oluloro cites is not for herself but for her daughters, who
as American citizens are free to remain.

But the judge could simply dismiss the deportation case and allow Mrs. Oluloro
to stay in the country on an extended work visa. For him to do so,she must meet
three tests, the first of which she has already passed, having been in America
at least seven years. The two others: that she would experience hardship if
forced to leave, and that she has shown good moral character.

Paul Stultz, an immigration lawyer who is handling the Government's case against
Mrs. Oluloru, declined to comment on the matter, citing rules of the Immigration
and Naturalization Service that bar public discussion of unresolved cases.

Retort to the Criticism

No matter which way the judge rules, his decision is certain to bring added
attention to genital mutilation as an issue. Already African immigrants' use of
the ritual has led to a bill, introduced by Representative Patricia Schroeder,
Democrat of Colorado, that would prohibit administering it on anyone in this
country under the age of 18.

Genital mutilation has also received heightened attention of late because it is
the subject of condemnation in a widely recognized book, "Warrior Marks." A
co-author was the novelist Alice Walker, who has also produced a film of the
same title.

Denunciation of the ritual has not been free of criticism in kind. Quite apart
from the accusation that Western critics are cultural imperialists meddling in a
custom of foreign lands where they have no business, there is the argument that
those efforts could have a backlash effect, hurting attempts under way in those
countries to end the practice.

"Superior Western attitudes do not enhance dialogue or the equal exchange of
ideas," Seble Dawit, a human rights lawyer, and Salem Mekuria, a film maker,
wrote in a recent article on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times. The two
women, Africans living in the United States who oppose genital mutilation, say
American critics, including Ms. Walker, take too blunt an approach. The practice
should be viewed not in isolation, they say, but in the context of broader
efforts to lift the poor educational, economic and social status of women
throughout much of Africa.

Mr. Hasche, the lawyer for Mrs. Oluloro, has heard all the arguments. "Frankly,"
he said, "I don't give a damn if opposing this is a violation of someone's
culture. To me, female genital mutilation is a violation of the physical and
spiritual integrity of a person."

In any case, he said, the Oluloro children "are American girls" and as such
"have more in common with all the other kids in Portland than they do with
anyone in Africa."


LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lydia Oluloro says that she was forced to submit to genital
mutilation as a child in Nigeria and that she fears the same for her daughters,
Lara, left, and Shade, if the United States deports her. The family posed at the
Portland, Ore., office of Mrs. Oluloro's lawyer, in front of a map of Nigeria.
(Don Ryan for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 6, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

ART;
The Immigrant Experience in the 90's

BYLINE: By VIVIEN RAYNOR

SECTION: Section 13WC;  Page 18;  Column 1;  Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 759 words

DATELINE: THE BRONX


WITH "Beyond the Borders," the Bronx Museum of the Arts must hope to eat its
diversity cake and have it too. Why else would the guest curator, Betti-Sue
Hertz, go to all the trouble of locating 30 immigrant artists from 27 countries
only to mount a show that in the end celebrates individualism?

Still, with the ebb and flow of peoples now a worldwide manifestation -- and one
that has done little to promote international understanding -- the production
deserves attention.

Except for boat people, the masses now arrive by plane relatively unhuddled and,
in the case of the artists among them, ready to make dislocation their subject
matter -- even to capitalize on it. And, unlike their forebears, they come with
media-fostered illusions, although these are often no more than updated versions
of "streets paved with gold." All of which may explain why "Beyond the
Boundaries" is arranged under curiously unhelpful headings like "Grounded
Transmissions" and "Informed Interference."

In any case, the viewer, as usual, is left holding the bag, determining which of
its esthetic contents were imported and which acquired in the United States,
particularly by the artists who have studied here.

Among the show's redeeming features are the biographical statements, some of
them quite poignant. For example, Dinh Le, from Vietnam, speaks of having
followed the Confucian doctrines of obedience to elders and loyalty to family
until overwhelmed by the American " 'me' value system." The result in the show
is a series of large C-prints featuring dolls with the faces of Cher, Michael
Jackson, Vanilla Ice and others.

After these idols, all depicted without clothes, come the fantasies of Emilya
Dunayets. Most are dark pencil and watercolor landscapes inhabited by pale-faced
humans and polymorphs reminiscent of Chagall. Ms. Dunayets comes from Ukraine
and, feeling "like an alien in a cruel and restless world," she admits to using
art as a form of self-defense.

Anold Etienne explains that he is a self-taught painter because there were no
art schools in his part of Haiti. But his high-keyed landscapes, though brimming
with incidents, like a bus falling off a hill, are too well organized to be
regarded as wholly naive. Formerly an engineer, Moses Daramola from Nigeria is
now an artist working with sand and colored beads on mahogany panels to produce
intricate patterns, like that of a tall woman bent double over a red pot.

From this to Mo Bahc's "Traditional Breeze II" is a few feet and many
psychological miles. As if there were no alternative, Mr. Bahc devotes himself
to reconciling the irreconcilable, notably his own country, South Korea, with
the United States. He does it with paint, video or, as here, with a tree-like
assemblage involving hand-held fans and the electric kind.

Among the many artists taking a political route is Shirin Neshat, an Iranian
molded by five years' study at the University of California at Berkeley. On a
recent visit to her native land, Ms. Neshat was impressed to see women wearing
the veil again but at the same time doing military service. In the
photographer's larger-than-lifesize black and white prints, they pose with
rifles.

Toyo Tsuchiya from Tokyo celebrates his ties with Manhattan's Lower East Side
with a large image of a neighborhood sculpture garden. Mike Gyampo looks back to
life in Ghana by way of bronze sculptures incorporating African motifs. As an
artist born in China, Wucius Wong is well acquainted with the art of ink
painting; as an admirer of Hudson River School landscapes living on the Hudson,
he combines the media with gouache to impressive effect in views of mountains
and clouds.

Although born in the Philippines, Pacita Abad draws inspiration from the art of
Melanesia. She produces large, bright wall hangings of ferocious figures made
with cowrie shells, beads, a mirror and other objects.

Although the artists all share the immigrant experience, few apply themselves to
studying their adopted land as thoughtfully as Felipe Galindo of Mexico. His
drawings, in ink, watercolor or pastel, are on materials that most people
discard as trash. Thus, on a cake box he depicts a delicatessen with beer signs,
using the plastic insert as a window; a bus transfer is grounds for a vignette
of a couple waiting at a bus stop, and so on. For an adult, changing countries
is like learning to walk again. Mr. Galindo's scratchy little observations sum
up the awkwardness of it all.

The show continues through June 12. The number is (718) 681-6000, extension 36.

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Roasted Ducks," watercolor, pastel and ink on Chinese food
container by Felipe Galindo.; "Melanesia," a mixed construction by Pacita Abad.
(Photographs from the Bronx Museum of the Arts/Tony Velez)

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 8, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Suspect and the I.N.S.

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 39 words


Rashid Baz, the man accused of killing a Hasidic student and wounding three
others on the Brooklyn Bridge last week, lost his legal immigration status a
year ago, Federal immigration officials said yesterday.

Article, page B2.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 10, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Fannie Mae Seeks to Ease Home Buying

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Financial Desk

LENGTH: 693 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 9


The organization that stands behind many of the nation's mortgages is taking
broad steps to make home ownership easier for lower-income Americans,
particularly recent immigrants and minorities, people involved in the effort
said today.

Under the new rules, banks would have more flexibility in lending to people who
already owe a considerable amount of money or who cannot afford a down payment
equal to 20 percent of the price of a home, the people said.

Tuesday Announcement

The change is to be announced on Tuesday by the Federal National Mortgage
Association, popularly known as Fannie Mae. Officials at Fannie Mae would not
comment on the plan.

President Clinton is tentatively scheduled to attend the announcement. The
Administration is urging that loans be more broadly available to poor and
lower-middle-income Americans.

In addition to changing its guidelines, Fannie Mae plans a national educational
campaign that will seek to teach recent immigrants and minorities how to obtain
mortgages. The campaign will be aimed particularly at immigrants in a dozen
"gateway" cities where the percentage of home ownership has been declining.

The long-term goal is to broaden the economic and ethnic diversity of
homeowners. About 70 percent of white households now own their homes, compared
with 40 percent of black and Hispanic households.

Two Million Excluded

Mortgage experts have estimated that up to two million American households are
excluded from buying homes now because of conservative mortgage lending
standards. These include Americans with minor blemishes on their credit records,
for such things as changing jobs repeatedly or failing to pay utility bills on
time. Most mortgage experts assume that even people who fall behind on other
bills will struggle to make mortgage payments lest they lose their homes.

"Mortgage-lending criteria have been very conservative, and we have a lot of
people who should be creditworthy and have been cut out," said Thomas H.
Stanton, a former Fannie Mae lawyer.

It is not clear how many of these households might be covered immediately by
Fannie Mae's changes in mortgage guidelines.

Fannie Mae and the much smaller Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, better
known as Freddie Mac, are publicly traded enterprises that were created by the
Federal Government to help provide more money for mortgages. They have issued or
guaranteed securities made up of about $1 trillion worth of mortgages bought
from lenders.

Freddie Mac loosened its guidelines for low-income mortgages a few weeks ago.
But Deepak Bhargava, the legislative director of the Association of Community
Organizations for Reform Now, a New Orleans-based group of affordable housing
advocates, said that Freddie Mac's guidelines remained more restrictive than
Fannie Mae's.

Next week's changes in Fannie Mae's guidelines will probably widen the gap
between the two institutions' policies, Mr. Bhargava said. Freddie Mac officials
did not return phone calls made to their homes and office this evening.

                             --------------------


Realty Appraisal Shift

WASHINGTON, March 9 (By Bloomberg Business News) -- The Federal Reserve loosened
lending regulations today on bank holding companies by requiring fewer
appraisals of property involved in real estate loans.

The rules exempt banks from conducting a real estate appraisal for loans of
$250,000 or less, raising the threshold from the previous $100,000.

Appraisals on some loans are required by the 1989 Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act, though Congress gave Federal banking agencies the
power to set a threshold to exempt smaller loans from the requirements.

Three banking regulators -- the Fed, the Office of Thrift Supervision and the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency -- proposed raising the threshold to
$250,000 last June. The Fed is the only agency so far to approve the proposal.

In its proposal, the Fed staff said raising the threshold would increase the
availability of credit and ease the regulatory burden on banks without
endangering the safety and soundness of the banking industry.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

New Yorkers Break Down Barriers to Immigrants' Health Care

BYLINE: By KATHLEEN TELTSCH

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 31;  Column 1;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1214 words


Dr. Francesca Gany, an internist at the medical clinic at Bellevue Hospital
Center, has never been to Senegal in West Africa, where abdominal cramps are
often treated with kell, a medicine made from tree sap. But she has discovered
that her Senegalese patients here think unflavored gelatin works well as a
substitute.

Such small successes have encouraged the Senegalese to turn confidently to this
doctor, who is learning to speak their dialect, Wolof, enjoys sharing their
spicy stews and drops by to celebrate naming-day ceremonies for their newborn.

"I see myself as serving as a bridge between the city's medical system and those
who come here and need help," said Dr. Gany, head of the New York Task Force on
Immigrant Health, a group she formed four years ago to combat linguistic and
cultural barriers to good health care.

Tradition of Resourcefulness

Because New York has long been a gateway city for immigrants, its medical-care
systems, from sophisticated institutions to small clinics, have a history of
resourceful responses to changing populations. Beth Israel Medical Center, for
example, traces its beginnings to the arrival of Jewish emigres from Russia and
Poland who wanted a hospital that would accommodate their beliefs and dietary
practices.

These days, the hospital is using paid and volunteer interpreters to deal with
newer immigrants from China and Cambodia. It is one of a wide array of programs
to bridge cultural divides, from efforts of people like Dr. Gany to
multimillion-dollar projects coordinated by philanthropies.

And it is clear that more bridge-building will be needed as the demographics of
the nation continue to change -- the total number of blacks, Hispanics, Asians
and others already exceeds the population of whites in 186 counties in the
United States.

In New York City, for instance, the population of 26,000 American Indians has
largely been overlooked, said Rosemary Richmond, executive director of the
American Indian Community House, which has served for 25 years as a cultural and
social-welfare meeting place.

"Indian people who come from reservations are accustomed to having health
services provided as a matter of course," she said. "Conditions are very
different here in the city."

Both Ms. Richmond and Thomas W. Chapman, chief executive of George Washington
University Hospital in the District of Columbia, offer a similar list of
problems confronting groups outside the health-care mainstream: bewildering
eligibility and admission procedures, long waits to receive treatment and
frequently impersonal and insensitive treatment by medical personnel.

'Virtually Invisible'

"We've grown so accustomed to these conditions; they become virtually invisible
and we forget how they affect patients," said Dr. Chapman, director of a new
program called Opening Doors, which identifies and supports successful providers
of maternal, child and reproductive health services for racially diverse
populations. The $5.5 million program is financed jointly by two of the
country's leading health-care philanthropies, the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
of Princeton, N.J., and the Kaiser Family Foundation of Menlo Park, Calif.

The Senegalese are more fortunate than most immigrant groups because Dr. Gany
began following up on the newcomers who first showed up at Bellevue about six
years ago. Speaking French, she was able to talk to Senegalese street peddlers
along Broadway. When language failed, she drew pictures. Timing her visits so
she could meet new arrivals coming on Wednesday flights from West Africa, she
dropped by the wholesale shops where Senegalese bought their merchandise or the
single-room-occupancy hotels where they lived.

These days Aissatou Ndao, pregnant with her fifth child, sends her Senegalese
friends to Dr. Gany. Sometimes she brings home remedies like herbal tea for the
doctor to sample.

A Chef From Chinatown

Another success story comes from Beth Israel, which last year sent a team to
Chinese Hospital in San Francisco. The visitors say they came away with a deeper
understanding of patients' cultural needs. As a result, Beth Israel has made
several changes.

"When they are sick, many of the Chinese will refuse Western food but they will
eat a porridge called jook, which they regard as their comfort food, like
chicken soup," said Mae Wong, a volunteer. She said Beth Israel brought a chef
from Chinatown into its kosher kitchens to give cooking instructions.

Beth Israel also has an unusually close link to business people, students and
tourists from Japan. That tie was developed four years ago, largely because of
the efforts of Beth Israel's president, Dr. Robert G. Newman, who spent two
years as an Air Force surgeon in Japan, learned the language there and is
married to a Japanese woman.

Dr. Newman said that Japanese friends would call him at home for help in medical
emergencies -- frequently in the middle of the night -- leading his wife, Seiko,
to suggest an established medical program for local Japanese. He did, and a
leading Japanese insurance company, Tokio Marine and Fire, gave $1 million to
Beth Israel to create the Japanese Medical Practice at 55 East 34th Street,
where Japanese patients are examined and treated by American doctors aided by
Japanese medical staff.

1 Hospital, 152 Languages

Perhaps the most diverse patient population is served by Bellevue, the nation's
oldest hospital, where patients, most of whom are Hispanic, speak 152 languages
and dialects. To deal with such an array of languages, the hospital has expanded
its translation services, partly through a program using bilingual students from
Hunter College.

Dr. Carmen I. Vazquez, who founded the bilingual treatment program for Hispanic
patients at Bellevue, and Dr. Alina Calavijo-Passik, a clinical psychologist,
regard themselves as "cultural brokers." Not only is learning the language
important, they say, but learning different cultures can be helpful, too.

"We bring knowledge of what makes Hispanics different," said Dr. Vazquez. "A
patient who reports seeing or speaking to a dead relative may be diagnosed
erroneously as psychotic by a clinician when, in fact, such 'espiritismo' is
woven into some cultures. It is our role to explain these illusions."

Other medical institutions cross the cultural divide on a much smaller scale.
The Chinatown Health Clinic, for instance, operates a family-oriented practice
from cramped quarters at 89 Baxter Street. Here, too, there is an energetic
drive to recruit staff members with the language skills and "cultural
competency," said Dr. Grace Wong, the medical director.

She said clinic workers see about 38,000 patients yearly. With the Chinese
population of New York expected to continue to grow, the clinic is to move
within weeks to a new high-rise across the street. It will also provide day care
for elderly people and children. The move will be the third in 17 years for the
clinic, which began operations in church-donated space with a staff of
volunteers.

The clinic practices Western medicine but keeps an open mind about patients who
cling to traditional forms of care, Dr. Wong said. "We do not blanketly say it
is bad and we won't use it; we try to show sensitivity and respect."


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 13, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Immigrants to Life Underground;
Illegal Cellar Cubicles Are One Rung Above Being Homeless

BYLINE: By CRAIG WOLFF

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 29;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 1939 words


On the day seven years ago when Frank Durente circled over Manhattan Island for
the first time, he looked down and genuinely believed that the buildings, the
sidewalks, New York itself, was reaching up expressly for him. He saw himself
living in one of the tiny buildings below, finding regular work and proudly
sending some dollars home to his family in Guyana from the city he had
conquered. "This is where I belong," he wrote in his red pocket diary as he was
about to touch down.

Now Mr. Durente sees New York from below ground, through the smashed window of a
door jammed against garbage cans and thrown-away furniture. Time for him is a
withering experience. He spends most of it in his 5-by-8-foot room, in the
basement of an apartment house in Brooklyn that has five other spaces just like
his, on a block where dozens of men and women and even children live in exactly
the same way.

Untold Fire and Health Hazards

They are part of a population of immigrants in New York who exist literally
beneath the boards, invisible to the city that once beckoned them so
promisingly. They carry on their lives in rooms -- really cubicles -- illegally
carved out of the basements of private homes and apartment houses, presenting
untold fire and health hazards and subtly altering the personality and quality
of life in dozens of neighborhoods throughout the city.

It is almost impossible to know exactly how many people are living in these
conditions; officials from various city agencies, including housing, buildings,
fire, and police, estimate it could be anywhere from 10,000 to 50,000. But the
officials, as well as community leaders and experts on homelessness, say they
have no doubt that the population has grown exponentially in recent years,
especially in immigrant neighborhoods like Brighton Beach, Chinatown, Flatbush
and Jackson Heights. And many factors are converging to keep the phenomenon
going.

There are the landlords, eager to take advantage of a market of people who
either cannot afford better housing or do not have access to it.

And there are the immigrants themselves. Most are here illegally and all too
willing to pay anywhere from $25 to $150 a week to stay off society's radar
screen and out of detection from the myriad government agencies that they fear
would ship them home.

Or they are anxious to put away as much money as they can. Or they are simply
desperate to avoid the dangers of surviving on the streets and in homeless
shelters. For them, any space of their own is a step up.

The problem, recalling a turn-of-the-century New York when a faceless immigrant
work force toiled in sweatshops, has frustrated city officials, who often do not
know where to begin to look. When these conditions are discovered, it is
typically by police officers or firefighters who are responding to emergencies.

"We know it's out there, but it's hard to get our hands on," said Valerie Jo
Bradley, assistant commissioner for public affairs for the Housing Preservation
and Development Department. "No one wants to make people homeless, but if we do
find it, we have to do something about it. People's lives may be in danger."

Inspectors Spread Thin

The department's 221 inspectors are responsible for protecting living
conditions, like heat and hot water, in privately owned buildings. They are also
mandated to guard against illegal conversions of homes and small apartment
houses and violations of the multiple dwelling codes, which differ from
neighborhood to neighborhood.

The Buildings Department, while also on the lookout for illegal apartments, is
chiefly concerned with unsafe structural conditions, and besides, it has only 57
inspectors for 800,000 buildings in New York.

"Anyway, our biggest problem is that we usually are forced to rely on complaints
from other residents, who must sign a sworn affidavit," Ms. Bradley said.
"That's not an easy thing to get."

When Shu'aib Abdul Latif, 17 years old, was killed in January during a struggle
with police officers in the cellar of a building at 499 Williams Street in East
New York, Brooklyn, the officers discovered that the area had been transformed
into a small dormitory with cots tucked into eight separate cubicles. The
officers said 20 crack vials were found in the basement, raising the question of
whether these underground spaces might also serve as safe harbors for the drug
trade.

Most Barely Getting By

But more typically, officials say, they attract immigrants like Mr. Durente, who
works sporadically at small construction jobs. Some drive livery cabs, some do
maintenance, most are barely getting by. Their underground rooms are often just
pockets of space where they have crashed.

Mr. Durente sat on on his bed in his room at 2224 Albemarle Road in East
Flatbush and said that he lost three jobs in the last year, finally forcing him
to leave a small apartment.

Ultimately, officials are confronted with an uncomfortable choice -- to turn a
blind eye or expel the immigrants from their rooms and most likely expose them
to more dangers and worse squalor. Many housing experts have estimated that the
city lost more than 100,000 units of legal single-room-occupancy housing over
the last 15 years from gentrification, sending more people out on the search for
a roof over their heads.

"Years ago, a person could find a cheap room with a door that locks," said Mary
Brosnahan, executive director of the Coalition for the Homeless. "Landlords are
responding to a real market need for cheap housing and the illegal immigrants
are trying to get a foot on the first rung. It beats the hell out of being
mugged on the street or getting robbed in a shelter."

'Another Happy Land'

Rochelle Tenner, district manager for Community Board 17 in East Flatbush,
helped organize a task force of local block associations on the illegal
single-room rentals, but she complained that most public officials will not pay
attention "until another Happy Land comes along." She was referring to the
outcry over unlicensed social clubs after the 1990 fire that killed 87 people in
a Bronx club.

Over the last year and a half, Mary Sarro, the district manager of Queens
Community Board 3 in Jackson Heights, has forwarded 16 complaints about the
illegal spaces to different city agencies, but she said that not one building
inspector was able to get through the door. Inspectors do not have a legal right
to demand entry unless another resident swears out a formal complaint. Fire
inspectors, however, recently removed 14 people from illegal cubicles from a
house on 92d Street in Jackson Heights, she said.

While the sense of crisis may be muted because the problem stays unseen, there
is often a visible fallout. The illegal conversions in general create problems
with noise, parking, garbage and sewage, not to mention property values. But
other attending complications -- child abuse and neglect, drug use, alcoholism
and domestic violence -- remain cloaked, simmering below street level.

Detectives and community police officers were able to provide locations of some
of the underground dwellings, but said that they were reluctant to uproot
residents without evidence of serious safety hazards or criminal activity.

Rent Nicer Than Permit

On a recent snowy afternoon, Rose Chalumo reluctantly opened a side door to her
two-story house at 574 East 37th Street in East Flatbush. She said that she and
her husband, Gesher, a dietitian, converted the basement about five years ago
into six separate compartments. She said that they did not have a permit to rent
out rooms, but that the money was useful.

Jean Francoise, 33 years old, said he had lived there in a room with his cousin
for four years. He opened the door briefly to reveal two full-sized beds
cater-cornered, but quickly refused any more questions and slammed the door.

A small boy appeared from out of the shower, with a small towel wrapped around
his waist. He said his name was Steve and that he was 7 years old. He slept in
one room, he said, and his father, who was out working, slept in another room.
Steve said he did not attend school, but he recited his multiplication tables to
perfection. His room was the size of a small storage closet. Filled with cooking
utensils, cereal boxes and Steve's toy trucks, that is basically how it was
used.

A police officer and a detective later took the boy to the precinct house and
eventually sent him home with his father, who was warned not to leave him home
alone again.

Sentry Guards Locked Door

At 2224 Albermarle Road, a three-story tan-brick building in East Flatbush, a
woman acted as a kind of sentry, sitting on a stool by a locked door in back of
the staircase on the first floor. Only when she left the building and another
resident opened the door was the coast clear.

Downstairs, thin pieces of plywood sliced the basement into six 5-by-8
cubbyholes and a communal bathroom, kitchen and living area. Every touch of
despair seemed to be in place.

The living area consisted of an overturned sofa and a refrigerator that
contained a half-gallon of milk dated Aug. 17, 1993. The kitchen was more like a
sinkhole; only two of the four burners worked on the stove. The bathroom ceiling
was only six feet high, the mirror was cracked and the shower produced only cold
water. Along a thin corridor, there was no ceiling to speak of, only exposed,
dripping pipes. The one quick exit, a door that led to an alley, was blocked by
debris.

Mr. Durente appeared in the door of his room, a slight man who tended to back
away at each question, partly out of shyness it seemed, but also from shame. He
refused to have his picture taken out of fear that his wife and four children
back home in Guyana would see him forlorn. He had come to New York hoping to
earn enough money to give his family a better life, but he said that this dream
had long evaporated. It was not lost on him that his family, back home in a
crowded two-bedroom house, was living more comfortably than he.

'More Off Than On'

He described himself as a laborer who worked off and on, though lately, he
added, "more off than on."

Word of mouth had led him to the building, where he paid $37.50 a week, which he
said was less than other men he knew who were paying anywhere from $75 to $125
for similar accommodations on the block. Two of the men were day workers, like
himself. A few drove livery cabs and shared a room, trading the bed for the cab
in 12-hour shifts.

With a single sweep of his arm the tour of his home was complete. Four pairs of
pants and a dozen shirts rested neatly on hangers, nearly obscuring his bed.
About a dozen pots, pans, and dishes lined the near wall, along with jars of
spaghetti sauce, roach spray, disinfectant and a bottle of aspirin. A picture of
Christ looked down over a small table that held cans marked Basil, Dill and
Tarragon, and several boxes of macaroni.

A 25-inch-screen television dominated the room, and several wires -- leading to
a hot plate, a space heater, a radio, two lamps and a small refrigerator --
disappeared through a hole in the ragged beige carpet.

Mr. Durente said he spent most of his time escaping his troubles through Oprah
and Geraldo.

"I didn't have this in mind," he said. "I had an idea about this country, but .
. . " and he shrugged his shoulders.

He opened a small diary that he has been keeping since arriving in New York, and
read from the entry marked July 12, 1987:

"The heart is filled with hope. I believe in my fortunes. Right now, this is
where I belong. I must believe in God. Only sweetness can happen to me."


LOAD-DATE: March 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Basement cubicles serve as dwellings for 10,000 to 50,000
people in New York, officials say. One is a 7-year-old boy in East Flatbush,
Brooklyn, who was encountered by Officer Judith Walters and taken to the 67th
Precinct; An underground dwelling in Brooklyn has little room after the addition
of a bed and a few boxes of personal belongings. (pg. 29); A basement space in a
Brooklyn house that was illegally partitioned into cramped one-room dwellings
presents health and fire code violations. (Photographs by Nancy Siesel/The New
York Times) (pg. 37)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Echoes of Jacob Riis

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 312 words


In a room not 13 feet either way slept 10 men and women, two or three in bunks
set in a sort of alcove, the rest on the floor. A kerosene lamp burned timidly
in the fearful atmosphere, probably to guide other and later arrivals to their
"beds" for it was only just past midnight. . . . The "apartment" was one of
three in two adjoining buildings . . . similarly crowded.

Only the kerosene lamp stamps the above as having been written more than 100
years ago. In all other particulars it might have appeared last Sunday, in a
Times article on the thousands of New Yorkers, most of them illegal immigrants,
who live in basement cubicles. They may have come from different countries from
the people the photojournalist Jacob Riis described in 1890, in his powerful
"How the Other Half Lives." But like them they come with the "purpose and
ambition to better [themselves] and, given half a chance, might be reasonably
expected to make the most of it." The trick, of course, is getting that half a
chance.

No one knows precisely how many people -- the estimates range from 10,000 to
50,000 -- are living in cellar cubicles, some of which rent for as much as $125
a week. As with Riis's immigrants, "it is their instinct to shun the light."
Better the squalid basement than being shipped back to their home countries by
any of the government agencies they fear may have an eye out for them.

Change may seem the only constant in this city, but the appearance is deceiving.
The poor are always with us, and so are those who -- like the leasers of
basement cubicles -- would make a buck off their misery. There's something else
immutable about New York as well. For centuries this has been a funnel through
which immigrants from all over the world have streamed before they moved on to
suburbs, towns, other states. It is here that millions of Americans are made.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 16, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Low-Income Mortgage Plan

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section D;  Page 16;  Column 6;  Financial Desk

LENGTH: 152 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 15


The Federal National Mortgage Association, better known as Fannie Mae, announced
today that it planned to increase its purchases of mortgages issued by banks to
low-income families and recent immigrants and planned to start a national
educational program aimed at helping renters find ways to buy homes.

Fannie Mae said it would increase its purchases of such mortgages to $1 trillion
for the seven-year period ending in 2000. It had previously planned to buy about
$850 billion worth of the mortgages in this period.

Fannie Mae packages the mortgages that it buys and resells them for slightly
more money and with a guarantee that Fannie Mae or the issuing financial
institution will pay for mortgages that default.

The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, better known as Freddie Mac,
performs a similar role and has already expanded its financing of low-income
housing in the last two years.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 18, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Restaurants

BYLINE: By Ruth Reichl

SECTION: Section C;  Page 24;  Column 3;  Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 1260 words


Why are there so many bad Chinese restaurants in New York? Blame it on the
politicians.

The first wave of immigrants from Southern China came to this country from the
Pearl River Delta in 1848. The earliest to arrive were men who went to work in
the gold mines, on the railroads and on farms, intending to send for their
families once their fortunes were made.

The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 changed all that. Because subsequent
immigration was all but prohibited, the first Chinatowns were largely bachelor
societies. The men knew very little about cooking, but they yearned for the food
of the villages they had left behind. They did their best to recreate it, and
this clumsy cooking is what Americans came to know as Chinese food: sticky
sweet-and-sour pork, leaden egg rolls, greasy chow mein.

The first large group of women did not arrive until 1945, after the repeal of
the Exclusion Act and passage of the War Brides Act. But the big change in
Chinese cooking in America came in 1965 when the Hart-Celler Act changed the
quotas, increasing Asian immigration and bringing an influx of Chinese chefs. In
the meantime, several generations of Americans had grown up on a bad parody of a
great cuisine.

Americans have welcomed each new style of Chinese cooking, falling for the
spiciness of Sichuan in the early 70's and the simplicity of Hong Kong cooking
in recent years (courtesy of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
which greatly increased the colony's quotas). Still, Americans remain lamentably
wedded to old ideas. Most Chinese restaurants are so wary of American customers
they don't even bother to offer them their best regional specialties.

Which brings me to Tang Pavilion. Chinese friends kept insisting that this calm
and lovely midtown restaurant served wonderful food. And yet the menu was filled
with pedestrian dishes. There I sat, eating dreary Seafood Delight and Big Apple
Chicken, watching elegant Chinese men eating what looked like elegant Chinese
dishes. What was I doing wrong?

I was not, it turns out, asking for the Shanghai menu. The cooking of Eastern
China -- from cities like Shanghai, Suzhou, Hangzhou -- is still relatively hard
to find in the United States. It is a complex cuisine, much prized in China and
quite different from the more familiar southern food. As soon as I found out
that there was a special menu of Shanghai specialties, printed in English, Tang
Pavilion was transformed for me. I discovered all the rich dishes I had seen on
other tables.

I immediately ordered a plate of drunken chicken and sat back to savor its deep,
musky flavor. The chicken had been steeped in the local shao hsing wine until
the flesh was silky and aromatic. It was a cool, simple but extremely satisfying
dish.

Next we had "vegetable pie," a terrine made of many thin layers of dried bean
curd. It was subtle, delicate, deeply delicious. Shanghai, which is famous for
its vegetarian dishes, has devised hundreds of interesting ways to use bean
curd. One of my favorite dishes at Tang Pavilion is green bean and tofu sheet:
long white bands of almost translucent dried bean curd tossed with small bright
green beans. The combination was fresh and light, like some delightful new take
on pasta.

Looking through the menu I spied baby eel, a famous Eastern Chinese dish. It
must be eaten with great speed; as soon as the dish loses its heat it loses its
appeal. Tang Pavilion's version was fabulous, a mixture of sweet, slender strips
of eel, yellow chives and ginger. We followed it with hearts of Chinese cabbage
steamed with velvety black mushrooms, a perfect end to the meal.

There were even more interesting dishes on the menu, but they required advance
notice. So a week later I gathered a group and returned for a feast.

We began by nibbling on pickles: triangles of turnip marinated in sesame oil,
chewy pieces of pressed bean curd, salty preserved greens. Peanuts sprinkled
with shards of dried seaweed were impossible to resist.

A beautiful plate of cold hors d'oeuvres contained more of that wonderful
drunken poached chicken, long golden strands of jellyfish slicked with sesame
oil and crisp curly strips of baby eel, a sort of elegant jerky.

Soup was so potent and so fragrant that the scent preceded the tureen to the
table. The aroma was chicken, but what you tasted was the salty-sweet flavor of
shredded ham and the earthiness of black mushrooms. Nestled in the bottom of
each bowl was a single delicate crescent of egg dumpling.

The centerpiece of the dinner was braised duck stuffed with sweet rice, a
masterpiece the color of mahogany. Soft enough to eat with chopsticks, this dish
would make any meal into a banquet. It was so rich it was almost impossible to
eat more than a couple of bites, so delicious it was hard to stop yourself from
having more.

Next there were fillets of yellow fish wrapped in sheets of bean curd and
deep-fried. They crackled invitingly each time you took a bite. The crisp puffs
of fish had a clean, fresh flavor that filled your mouth and then quickly
vanished.

One of the most famous Eastern dishes is named for a poet and statesman of the
11th century, Su Tung-po, who wrote the recipe in the form of a poem:

Over a slow fire,

with a little water,

Simmer till soft

A very good taste.

The recipe has changed very little since then. The pork is braised in soy sauce,
rice wine, sugar and ginger, then steamed until the flesh has the texture of
butter. At Tang Pavilion the sweet, soft chunks of meat were stuffed into chewy
white buns and turned into seductive little sandwiches.

If this had been a Western meal, it would have been followed by salad. Being
Chinese, there was the simplicity of bright green, quickly cooked pea shoots
(dou miao) and small bowls of rice.

As we sat sipping tea and eating fruit we wondered why all these dishes had been
segregated on a separate menu. Was it because the waiters got tired of telling
people, "you won't like that" when they tried to order sea cucumber (another
wonderful Shanghai specialty that has the consistency of hard Jell-O)? Were they
weary of warning diners about all the bones in stewed fish tail? Or does Tang
Pavilion simply fear that its best dishes will not be appreciated by an American
audience?

Whatever the answer, the very fact that the Shanghai menu is printed in English
is a hopeful sign. A few years ago, the menu would have been written entirely in
Chinese characters. Times do change.


Tang Pavilion

**

65 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 956-6888.

Atmosphere: Spare, elegant and comfortable.

Service: Professional and helpful; ask for advice.

Recommended dishes: Drunken chicken, jelly fish, egg dumpling soup, pickled
cabbage soup, braised duck stuffed with sweet rice, Tung-po pork, pork with
dried bean curd and green chili, jumbo shrimp with seaweed, Chinese cabbage with
black mushrooms, baby eel with yellow leeks, green bean and tofu sheet, pork
with preserved vegetable.

Wine list: Minimal, but the 1992 Sancerre from Michel Redde goes well with the
food.

Hours: 11:30 A.M. to 10:30 P.M. daily.

Price range: Appetizers $2.50 to $9.95, main courses $6.50 to $42 (braised
duck), desserts $2.50 to $12.

Credit cards: All major cards.

Wheelchair acccessible.

What the stars mean:

(None) Poor to Satisfactory
* Good
** Very Good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the reviewer's reaction primarily to food, with ambiance and
service taken into consideration. Menu listings and prices are subject to
change.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 18, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New York Accuses Employer Of Underpaying and Bribery

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 3;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 546 words


The owner and a project manager of a construction company frequently used by New
York City agencies were arrested for underpaying workers and for trying to bribe
a city official who found out, District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau of
Manhattan said yesterday.

The owner, Rey J. Nieto, won dozens of contracts over the last five years from
various city agencies, which set aside some of their contracts for
minority-owned businesses, by arguing that he is Hispanic and that he hired
mostly Hispanic workers, investigators said.

But when a manager from the School Contruction Authority looked into Mr. Nieto's
$386,000 renovation of restrooms at Washington Irving High School in Manhattan
last year, he found that most of the workers were recent immigrants from Poland
who were being paid only a fraction of the wages that Mr. Nieto listed on his
payroll sheets. A carpenter listed at $29.32 per hour was actually being paid
$6, the investigators said.

"There is something particularly unconscionable about holding yourself out as a
minority contractor and filing payroll sheets with Hispanic names when you're
actually using Poles and underpaying them," said Thomas D. Thacher 2d, inspector
general of the authority.

Bribery and Faking Records

Mr. Nieto, 52, was charged with falsifying business records and bribery, among
other charges. A project manager, Wojciech Szpilowski, was charged with bribery
and commercial bribery. Each face a maximum of seven years if convicted on
bribery, the most serious charge.

A lawyer for Mr. Nieto, Daniel Arshack, said only that Mr. Nieto was taking the
charges seriously and cooperating with the authorities. Mr. Nieto was arraigned
in Manhattan Criminal Court yesterday and was released on signing a personal
bond.

According to the Mayor's Office of Contracts, Mr. Nieto's company, Allstate
Specialty Services of Long Island City, Queens, won 99 contracts worth $25.3
million over the last five years. Mr. Nieto said last year that about half his
company's $15 million in annual revenue came from "minority set-asides."

Paying workers less than the prevailing wage, Mr. Thacher said, not only cheats
workers but also leads to the underbidding of contracts, to systematic bribing
of union officials and to shoddy workmanship that can be expensive to repair.

Complaint About Priorities

The practice has become widespread in New York City, Mr. Thacher said, in part
because the City Comptroller's office, which was required to enforce the law,
did not make it a priority and contractors had little fear of enforcement.

Alan G. Hevesi, who became Comptroller in January, said yesterday that he
intended to tackle a backlog of about 600 known cases of businesses that pay
below the prevailing wage.

Mr. Hevesi had made the backlog an issue in his successful race against
Elizabeth Holtzman, but he declined yesterday to discuss his predecessor's
management.

Mr. Hevesi and Mr. Thacher both said they intended to improve enforcement by
relying on private investigators to uncover labor abuses, and by fining
violators to cover the investigators' costs. Mr. Thacher said contractors hired
by his authority were now required to agree to pay higher fines than normal if
found in violation of labor laws.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

PLAYING IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD: LONGWOOD;
Immigrant Artists in the Bronx

SECTION: Section 13;   Page 12;   Column 4;   The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 215 words


"CHANGING Sights: Art by Immigrants Living in the Bronx," at the Longwood Arts
Gallery, is an exhibition of paintings, photography, sculpture and works on
paper and fabric by nine Bronx artists from eight countries, including Chile,
Jamaica, France, Cuba and Russia.

Betti-Sue Hertz, director of the Longwood Arts Project, which includes studios
as well as the gallery, pointed out that immigrants are dramatically altering
New York's art world. Looking at art from different cultures, she said, "breaks
down our prejudices and makes us think about things differently."

Ms. Hertz is the curator of the show and also of "Beyond Borders: Art by Recent
Immigrants," the current exhibition at the Bronx Museum, which is devoted to the
work of immigrants from around the country.

The Longwood Arts Center opened in 1985 at the former Public School 39. Being in
the Bronx, Ms. Hertz said, allows her to be more of "an independent thinker,"
less constrained by Manhattan trends. She describes the center as an artistic
crossroads where "the borough and the more mainstream stuff from downtown can
meet."
Longwood Arts Gallery, 965 Longwood Avenue between Beck and Kelly Streets;
through April 30; Thursday and Friday, noon to 5 P.M.; Saturday, noon to 4 P.M.;
free; (718) 931-9500.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Suzy Jarady's "Family System," at the Longwood Arts Gallery.
(Martha Burgess)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  March 20, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Massacre at Hebron Exposes Anti-American Mood in Israel

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1308 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 19


In some Israeli circles, a new dirty word has popped up in the last few weeks:
Brooklyn.

Brooklyn produced Benjamin C. Goldstein, who as Baruch Goldstein of the Qiryat
Arba settlement massacred at least 29 Palestinians in Hebron three weeks ago.
And Brooklyn, of course, is part of the United States. That has been enough to
touch a certain anti-American streak that lies just below the surface for many
Israelis.

These are far from the best of times for American-born Jews who made aliya --
the complimentary Hebrew word for immigrating to Israel -- and who tend to be
referred to here as "Anglo-Saxons," even if their families never got closer to
the British Isles than Slovakia.

Vulnerable to Criticism

If they wear yarmulkes and are on the political right -- a group filled with
former New Yorkers and constituting a clear majority of the 2,000 to 3,000
Americans now immigrating here each year -- they sense they are now
automatically vulnerable to criticism. And if they live in Judea and Samaria,
the names of biblical origin widely used here for the West Bank, they feel it
even more strongly, especially from the Government.

"We're all tagged as 'settlers,' and with that word alone we're already put two
pegs below everybody else," said Bob Lang, originally of Nanuet, N.Y., who lives
south of Bethlehem in the settlement of Efrat. Roughly one-third of the 5,000
residents of Efrat are from the United States.

"After the massacre, those of us who are Americans dropped down another peg,"
Mr. Lang said. "Now we're all seen as Baruch Goldsteins."

Even American-born Jews who are secular and lean politically leftward find this
an uncomfortable period. Not that anyone has been physically attacked or subject
to blatant discrimination. The situation is hardly that bad. And the United
States is, at heart, an admired ally and Israel's main source of political
solace, financial support and pop-culture guidance, from Big Macs to Madonna.

Marginal to the Israelis

Still, Stuart Schoffman, a screenwriter and magazine columnist who attended the
Yeshiva of Flatbush about a decade before Baruch Goldstein, found that "Israelis
were too hasty to blame this on an American."

"It reminded me of how marginal we are to Israelis," Mr. Schoffman said, talking
about an attitude that many Americans sense in secular native-born Israelis --
that anyone who gave up life in the United States cannot be playing with a full
deck of cards.

"It's a common perception that if you come from America you have to be crazy,"
Mr. Schoffman said. "Over and over, you hear Israelis ask, 'Why did you come?' "

Anti-American, and specifically anti-Brooklyn, sentiment surfaced immediately
after the massacre, and although it was aimed primarily at Americans on the
religious and nationalist extremes, it was sufficiently scattershot to hit other
targets as well.

The newspaper Maariv complained about American parents who "send their lunatic
children to Israel."

"In Qiryat Arba," it said in a commentary, "the raw material is American, the
money is American. We have to do the work."

Immigration Minister Yair Tsaban singled out Brooklyn, warning about "that gang"
there, meaning people like Dr. Goldstein who are rooted in the Arab-loathing
ideology of another Brooklyn product, Rabbi Meir Kahane.

Two Groups Are Banned

Urging the Government to outlaw Kahane-spawned movements, an action taken last
weekend against the Kach and Kahane Chai groups, Mr. Tsaban said, "If we don't
declare them illegal, we will have no legal basis to prevent the immigration of
their brethren from Brooklyn."

Yitzhak Rabin contemptuously rejected that militancy as "a foreign implant," and
even though aides later insisted that the American-oriented Prime Minister was
talking about views alien to Judaism, some Americans took it personally and
found it a dissonant observation in a nation of immigrants.

Some ordinary Israelis, too, have taken up verbal cudgels, like a retired
businessman in Tel Aviv who said a day after the massacre, "Most of the American
Jews are extremists, and troublemakers, too."

In fact, Americans account for a tiny fraction of Israel's five million people,
barely one percent. Olga Rachmilevitch, national executive director of the
Association of Americans and Canadians in Israel, estimates that since the
creation of the state in 1948 not more than 80,000 North Americans immigrated to
Israel and stayed.

From New York to West Bank

But the Americans often have a disproportionate influence on the national
political and social agenda -- from the left as well as the right -- because
they bring an activism that many other Israelis lack.

On the right, American accents are unmistakable not only at the Kahane-inspired
fringes but also among more moderate settlers in the territories.

According to some estimates, 15 percent of the roughly 130,000 settlers are
originally from the United States, many of them people who went straight from
New York to the West Bank and who have at best a tenuous connection to
mainstream Israel. The average Israeli on Saturday is generally less interested
in the weekly Bible reading than whether the Maccabi Haifa soccer team won yet
again.

But while precise figures are hard to come by, American-Israelis are also
prominent in disproportionate numbers in leftist or liberal groups like Peace
Now, the New Israel Fund and the Association for Civil Rights in Israel.

"Americans tend to feel that each person can make a difference, and so when they
come here many gravitate to grass-roots movements akin to the ones they knew
back home," said Galia Golan, a political scientist at Hebrew University who
immigrated in 1966 and is a leader of Peace Now.

On a Different Plane

Part of what separates the Americans from others is that, as a group, they did
not come here in desperation. In that sense, they live on a different plane from
the hundreds of thousands of Moroccans, Russians, Ethiopians, Romanians and
others who simply wanted out, whether because of economic hardship or religious
persecution.

Zeev Chafets, a Michigan-born writer and 15 years ago a spokesman for the
Government of Menachem Begin, said: "People who move here are highly motivated
ideologically. They want to feel that there's a deeper purpose, whether it's
religious or Zionist. So it's not surprising that there's this activism among
the Americans."

Yet the activism tends to be channeled into groups working to influence official
policy, not make it.

Beyond a few notable exceptions -- including the late Prime Minister Golda Meir,
born in Kiev but reared in Milwaukee, and former Defense Minister Moshe Arens,
who grew up in the United States although born in Lithuania -- Americans have
been almost invisible in the front ranks of Israeli politics, diplomacy, big
business and that most important force of all, the army.

In part, Israelis say, it is because those institutions have "old boy networks"
formed in the barracks and at school.

Nonetheless, Mr. Chafets worked in a high Government post, and says that "no one
ever questioned the propriety or security implications." Gerald Steinberg, a San
Francisco-born military expert at Bar-Ilan University, says his access to senior
army ranks is "much greater" than he had expected.

Like most American arrivals over the last dozen years, Professor Steinberg is an
observant Jew, and lives in Jerusalem. But he finds that secular Israelis tend
to see his knitted yarmulke and immediately "categorize me as a right-wing
settler type until it is proven otherwise."

"These are Americans whose life's dream is to live in the land of Abraham, not
the state of Israel," Professor Steinberg said of the settlers. "They're not a
large group, but they're visible. And they're alien to Israelis, and that makes
us all look alien."


LOAD-DATE: March 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of the West Bank shows the location of Efrat. (pg. 14)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 26, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Gay Man Who Cited Abuse in Mexico Is Granted Asylum

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 5;  Column 3;  National Desk

LENGTH: 607 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 25


A gay man has been granted asylum in the United States after saying he was
harassed and raped by the police in his native Mexico.

The man, who identified himself with the pseudonym Jose Garcia, said at a news
conference on Thursday that he hoped the decision of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service would send a signal to all homosexuals "that there are
countries in the world which respect the human rights of all citizens."

It was the first time the immigration service had granted asylum based on a
claim of persecution involving sexual orientation, said Ronald Silberstein, Mr.
Garcia's lawyer.

Mr. Garcia, who said he was in his 30's and had been in the United States
illegally for about a decade, won the right to stay permanently on March 18.
That right "saved my life," he said.

"As a gay man in Mexico, life was made intolerable for me," he said at his news
conference. "I had no one to turn to. When I learned that being gay in the
United States was not only tolerated but even accepted in some areas, I had only
one desire: to flee Mexico for some kind of freedom in the United States."

Mr. Garcia said he had established a "well-founded fear of persecution" in
Mexico because of his membership in a particular "social group."

The immigration service had not previously concluded that homosexuals were a
"social group," a category protected by asylum laws if fear of persecution is
established, Mr. Silberstein said. He said the decision, though not binding on
other immigration officers, should establish a precedent for similar cases
elsewhere in the United States.

An immigration service spokesman, Duke Austin, said the decision had been
reviewed at the agency's headquarters in Washington before it was issued.

The decision sets no precedent and does not mean that all homosexuals from
Mexico are eligible for asylum, Mr. Austin said. But he said it was a logical
conclusion that persecution of homosexuals by other nations would also be
grounds for asylum.

Last July, an immigration judge in San Francisco granted asylum to a Brazilian
homosexual, a decision the immigration service is appealing to the Board of
Immigration Appeals. In 1990, the appeals board barred the deportation of a
Cuban homosexual.

Mr. Austin said he was not aware of the grounds for the immigration service's
appeal of the Brazilian's case.

Mr. Silberstein said that in Mr. Garcia's case, the immigration service
"recognized that sexual orientation is clearly a social group." He also noted
that Mr. Garcia was not under a deportation order; he had walked into an
immigration office and applied for asylum.

Mr. Garcia said that as he was growing up in Coahula, Mexico, the police
arrested him for walking in certain neighborhoods, patronizing certain bars and
attending certain parties. They also falsely accused him of crimes and extorted
money from him, he said.

When he was a teen-ager, he said, he and a friend were stopped by police
officers who told the friend to go home and get some money if he wanted to see
Mr. Garcia again. While the friend was gone, he said, one officer raped him.

Mr. Silberstein said the immigration service had been given evidence of the
involvement of the police and military authorities in the slayings of
homosexuals and doctors working against AIDS in certain parts of Mexico.

An advocacy group, the International Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission,
said that about 25 gay men and transvestites were killed in the southern state
of Chiapas from June 1991 to February 1993, and that a Mexican Government report
had found irregularities in the local investigation of the killings.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 31, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Nameless Dead In Sea Tragedy Now Identified

BYLINE: By ASHLEY DUNN

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 5;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1598 words


For nearly 10 months, the bodies of six Chinese men who drowned as they tried to
swim ashore from the ill-fated Golden Venture have lain unidentified -- first in
refrigerated vaults at the New York City Medical Examiner's office and now in a
collective grave in New Jersey.

But what has been a mystery to government authorities for the last 10 months has
been known all along to other passengers of the Golden Venture, which was
smuggling a cargo of illegal immigrants from China. Many said they had simply
never been asked to identify their compatriots.

In a series of interviews both in and out of prison over the last week, nearly
20 passengers from the Golden Venture have provided tentative identifications of
the six in the hope that their bodies can be returned to their families in
China.

They recalled that one of those now believed dead was a young man who served as
the "ship's doctor," and another had driven a tractor back home and liked to
play chess.

"We've all felt, how could the American Government allow them to be buried like
this?" said one man now being held in the Lehigh County prison in Allentown, Pa.
"It has been very hard for us to bear. Someone should take them home."

In all, 10 of the Golden Venture's passengers died. Four have since been
identified. But the Medical Examiner's office and the United States Immigration
and Naturalization Service said their efforts to identify the other six had been
stymied by language problems and the fear relatives have of approaching
authorities.

In addition, both agencies say finding the relatives of the dead has only been
one of many priorities in the Golden Venture case.

"Our primary responsibility is the criminal investigation and part of that is
identifying the dead," said Demetrios Georgakopoulos, assistant district
director for investigation in the Immigration and Naturalization Service's New
York office. "We are pursuing a criminal investigation, and where there is
overlap, we pursue that."

Letters From Relatives

But passengers who survived the Golden Venture ordeal say that through letters
from relatives and friends, along with their own informal tally of their ranks,
they are reasonably certain that they have identified the six who died last June
6 when they jumped into the frigid, pounding surf off the coast of Queens. The
Golden Venture, a rusting tramp steamer that ran aground on a sandbar, was
carrying nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants hoping to make their way to
America.

They say the six dead, all from Fujian Province, are Chen Xinghan, Zheng Shiming
and Lin Guoshui, all from Changle; Chen Dajie, of Langqi, Wang Xin, of
Tingjiang, and Huang Cangping, of Lianjiang.

"Of these men, we have heard nothing," said one passenger, who like all the
others spoke on the condition of anonymity, some on the advice of their lawyers
and others because of a fear that being identified might somehow get them in
trouble. "They are the ones that we all believe are dead."

Part of the problem in officially identifying the victims was the result of one
of the first attempts by a family to identify a relative. When two Chinese
immigrants went to the New York City Medical Examiner's office, they were
detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and brought into the
agency's office for questioning.

Although both were legal residents of the United States, neither was carrying
their immigration documents and they were taken away in handcuffs.

Officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said their questioning
of the two was routine: they were in the midst of an important investigation and
the two men might have had some valuable information.  But the news of their
treatment rapidly spread through the Chinese-American community.

'Don't Want to Be Deported'

"Some of these people are illegal immigrants," said William Chiu, whose
organization, the American Fujian Association of Commerce and Industry, tried to
help with the identification process. "They don't want to be deported back to
China."

It was only when the American Fujian Association, a Chinatown business
organization, obtained several telephone numbers that were found written on the
band of the underpants of one victim that another identification was made.

Mr. Chiu said he only dialed a few of the numbers before he reached a Chinese
family whose cousin had left Fujian Province and had not been heard from in over
two years.

The next day, he accompanied the family to the Medical Examiner's office, where
they identified their relative, Chen Fenyou.

But after August, the investigation languished. Mr. Chiu, who has pursued the
identifications on his own, said his organization had faxed information to
Chinese newspapers in Fujian but still has heard nothing.

Part of the problem has been that the Medical Examiner's office does not have
the authority to release information about the victims, like photographs that
could help relatives identify a victim.

The Medical Examiner's office has saved dental records, body X-rays, blood and
tissue samples from the bodies. But none of the information is useful unless
they have a name to search for medical records in China or something to compare
it to, such as a blood sample from a relative.

Primary Responsibility

Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the Medical Examiner's office, said the office
believed that primary responsibility for finding the identities of the six
bodies belongs to the I.N.S.

Mr. Georgakopoulos of the immigration service said that in the early days after
the grounding of the Golden Venture, investigators showed up to half the
surviving passengers pictures of the dead. They learned of two names but got
nothing else.

Daniel Molerio, assistant district director for investigations in the agency's
New York office, said last night that the tentative identifications of the six
victims open the possibility of requesting from the Chinese Government medical
records, X-rays and photographs that can be compared to the information at the
Medical Examiner's office.

The agency also will be discussing with the United States Attorney's office what
impact the new information might have in the criminal investigation into the
Golden Venture affair.

Passengers from the Golden Venture interviewed in prison said they would have
provided names to investigators if they had been asked.

"Why wouldn't I tell them?" asked one man who was recently released from
detention. "What difference would it make?"

Recognized Each Other

The man said that after months aboard the Golden Venture, virtually all the
passengers recognized each other. Some remembered only the nicknames they had
aboard ship or the informal names used by friends. There was one man who was
called the Thailand kid by most passengers. Another was simply referred to as
the Old Man of Tingjiang.

But because most of the passengers of the Golden Venture came from roughly the
same coastal region of Fujian Province, many knew their full names and
hometowns.

The New York Times interviewed 15 passengers of the Golden Venture, some at
Lehigh, others at York County prison in Pennsylvania, and two who had been
granted asylum. The men were shown photographs of some of the bodies and a brief
list of identifying characteristics.

As the survivors looked at the photos of the dead, they sadly gazed at the
pictures whenever a friend's face appeared.

"This was the Zhejiang boy," said one passenger as he looked at the boyish
picture of Lin Jiankun, whose body had already been identified and been taken
home to China. "We all called him little brother."

There was the one they jokingly called, "ke zhang," or section leader, because
his close cropped hair and pudgy build made him look like a little government
official.

His name was Chen Dajie and he had been a traditional doctor in his hometown,
Langqi. Although he was only in his 20's, he became the doctor aboard ship, the
passengers said.

Lin Guoshui had been a tractor driver in his hometown of Changle. He was
remembered by one man because of the countless hours they spent together on the
Golden Venture playing Chinese chess.

"I knew him well," the man said. "We played a lot of chess together. He was a
very good player."

One man immediately picked out the picture of his friend, Chen Xinghan. The man
said that they had played poker together on the Golden Venture. He remembered a
tattoo on Chen's arm that read in English, "Woly," although no one was sure what
the word meant.

Request Denied

One man in detention in Allentown told other detainees that he had repeatedly
asked immigration officials if he could view the bodies because he believed his
brother-in-law, Huang Cangping, might be among them. He was turned down, he
said. The identification of Mr. Huang, unlike the others, was made largely on
the basis of his brother-in-law's claim. He was stunned to find out this week
that the bodies already had been buried.

Some of the survivors of the Golden Venture believe that the families of many of
the victims already know that their relatives are dead.

The detainees who provided the six names are hopeful that publishing them will
encourage relatives to come forward.

Although they themselves do not want to go back to China, the thought of their
friends being buried in a distant land seemed to touch a deep chord of
loneliness and fear that they all feel as they sit in prison with uncertain
prospects for the future.

"To be buried in America," one man said. "It's very sad. Who will care for their
graves?"

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Buddhist memorial service was held in Queens earlier this
month for the six Chinese men who drowned trying to swim ashore from the Golden
Venture. Efforts to return the bodies to China ended in failure. (Nancy
Siesel/The New York Times); The bodies of the six drowning victims were buried
in a collective grave on March 15 at the Rose Hill Cemetery in Irvington, N.J.
(Associated Press) (pg. B3)

Chart: "THE DETAILS: Identifying the Last Victims" lists the six men who died
when the Golden Venture ran aground off Queens on June 6, 1993, and the victims
whom the authorities previously identified by other names. (pg. B3)

Map of China showing area of Fujian Prov. (pg. B3)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 1, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Making Refugees Pay

SECTION: Section A;  Page 26;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 385 words


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is moving ahead with its plan to make
potential refugees from political persecution pay to seek asylum. It has now
published regulations that will require refugees to pay a filing fee of $130 and
to wait six months for work permits.

People who seek asylum in the U.S. because of a well-founded fear of persecution
in their homelands often find themselves victimized again by a chronically
understaffed I.N.S. The number of specially trained hearing officers has more
than doubled in three years, from 90 to 185, but they cannot keep up with the
volume of claims. The Clinton Administration now proposes to double the existing
corps and to increase the number of judges who hear appeals of applicants who
are turned down.

Last year more than 150,000 people from 154 countries applied for asylum here;
the system now has a backlog of over 360,000 cases. But the number of applicants
last year was nearly triple that of three years ago, and I.N.S. officials fear
that many applicants are simply taking advantage of the agency's shortcomings.

Under existing rules any asylum applicant can receive a work permit within 60 to
90 days unless the claim is determined to be frivolous. Officials suspect that
many claimants are using the asylum process simply to gain permission to work.
The new rules will impose the $130 filing fee -- which can be waived for
inability to pay -- and a six-month waiting period for work permits. These
changes are designed largely to discourage fraud and abuse.

The best way to deter false claims, however, is to guarantee a fair and speedy
process. The Administration's move to increase the number of officers and judges
should help. Procedures will be streamlined, making it easier to screen out
frivolous claims, and allowing the expanded corps to keep up with the estimated
100,000 new cases each year. All the changes are scheduled to take effect in
October. It remains to be seen whether even the additional adjudicators can
handle new cases and eliminate the backlog.

It is too bad that the Administration did not try beefing up the I.N.S.'s
capacity to handle asylum claims fairly before it imposed fees and waiting
periods. That would have been more consistent with the humanitarian impulses of
refugee policy.



LOAD-DATE: April 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 10, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

BLACKBOARD;
English for Immigrants

BYLINE: By Abby Goodnough

SECTION: Section 4A;  Page 8;  Column 5;  Education Life Supplement

LENGTH: 319 words


SLEET pelted the windows of Norman Thomas High School in Manhattan one March
evening, but it didn't deter dozens of Mexican immigrants from filling three
classrooms, eager for free language lessons.

Hunched over small desks, they described the weather in halting, heavily
accented English. "It is snowing again," they chanted, carefully writing each
word in their notebooks. "When will spring arrive?"

About 150 immigrants are improving their English through Learning for
Advancement, a two-year-old program organized by the Mexican Consulate in New
York City. Unlike most English as a Second Language classes, the program is
privately financed, with a grant from Western Union.

Twelve volunteers run Learning for Advancement, each teaching one class a week.
Enrollment has tripled since classes began in January 1992, said Susan De
Bartolo, the program coordinator, who has spent four years teaching English as a
Second Language. Although the program was created for Mexicans, other immigrants
are welcome to attend regardless of their immigration status, she added.

Beginning, intermediate and advanced classes are held twice a week, from 5:30 to
7:30 P.M. There are three terms a year, each about 13 weeks long.

Classes were initially held at the consulate, but the New York City Board of
Education recently allotted the program three rooms at Norman Thomas High, on
33d Street at Park Avenue.

George Moran, who was struggling to pronounce the word "ballet" without the 't,'
said he was amazed to learn about the program. "I know about other classes, but
you have to pay a lot of money or wait months to get in," he said.

Like most of the students, Mr. Moran hopes he will become fluent enough to get a
better job. "I work as a messenger, and I was learning a little English on the
street," said Mr. Moran, who left Mexico two years ago. "But this will take me
further."
   Abby Goodnough

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jill Miller tutoring Manuel Rojas, a Mexican native. (Mary
DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 17, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BENSONHURST;
When Signs Are Only In Russian

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE--PIERRE

SECTION: Section 14;  Page 8;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 562 words


For decades the tree-shaded streets of Bensonhurst were Italian-American
enclaves, and mom-and-pop stores anchored the business hub along 86th Street.
But waves of Asian, Hispanic and Russian immigrants have changed the mix, both
residential and commercial, inevitably creating some friction.

In a reflection of that tension, a number of long-established storeowners are
complaining that many stores operated by Russian immigrants -- the most recent
arrivals -- display signs in their native language only. About 20,000 Russians
have moved into the area in the last few years.

Rocco Miele, the president of the Bensonhurst Residents and Merchants
Association, says the critics call the use of Russian-only signs un-American and
charge that it deprives non-Russian residents of potentially important
information.

Mr. Miele agrees, and he says the criticism has nothing to do with prejudice.
"This is America, and it's built for everybody," he said. "Suppose the signs
said 'Job Wanted'? How would I know? It's depriving Americans of opportunities."

Most of the complaints concern businesses called multi-services, which help
Russian immigrants translate documents, apply for green cards and obtain
driver's licenses. There are about 20 such businesses in Bensonhurst. Those
owners who carry only Russian signs say they are catering to a specific
clientele. .

"No American would need my work," said the owner of one multi-service, who spoke
on the condition that he and business would not be identified. "So why should I
have a sign in English?"

Signs in both English and Russian appear in scores of groceries and other stores
in Bensonhurst, including many not owned by Russians. And not all multi-services
follow the Russian-only sign policy. Mikhail Kartashevsky, a Russian immigrant
who owns Federal FPI, which helps immigrants obtain legal status, has signs in
both English and Russian.

"It's stupid being in the United States and not putting up a sign in English,"
he said. "It's much easier for people. I am interested in attracting other
immigrants too."

Mr. Miele, of the merchants association, said he has met with some of the
Russian storeowners, trying to convince them that the use of signs in English
would make the Russian presence in Bensonhurst seem less foreboding to old-time
residents.

"I go out and meet them and extend my heart out to them," Mr. Miele said. "We
have to live together as partners." The conversations, which began a few weeks
ago, have been cordial, he said, but no one has changed the signs.

Michael Endelson, manager of On the Spot Printing, argued that if Russian-owned
businesses also had signs in English, they would attract more patrons. When
asked why the signs on his store were not also in Russian, he replied: "I don't
speak Russian."

Howard Feuer, district manager for Community Board 11, said, "I don't think it's
such a bad idea to put signs in Russian. It only goes to show you that this
community is multi-ethnic and I think it's nice."

Carmine Santa Maria, president of Bensonhurst West End Community Council said,
"I think there is too much controversy about this because a businessman has the
right to advertise in every language he wants.

"The other residents feel resentment toward the Russians in the area because
they feel they have an unfriendly attitude."   GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Russian-language signs on 86th Street in Bensonhurst. (Steve
Hart for The New York Times)

Map of Brooklyn showing location of the shopping district.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  April 22, 1994, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Americans in 2020: Less White, More Southern

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A;  Page 16;  Column 4;  National Desk

LENGTH: 439 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21


A quarter century down the road, America will be older and more varied, less
white, less female and less northern, according to a new report by the Census
Bureau.

By the year 2020, Texas and Florida are both expected to climb past New York
into second and third place in population, behind California, the report
predicts. Texas may have already passed New York, according to the bureau's
latest population projections.

Continued strong growth in the South and West is expected to be a salient trend
in the coming years, Paul Campbell, a census population expert, said on
Wednesday.

The South is already the country's most populous region, and by 2010 the West
will surpass the Midwest for second place, he said.

The bureau's best estimate for 2020 is a nation of 325.9 million people, up from
249.4 million in 1990. The country will not look like today's America. People
will continue to move away from the Northeast and Midwest, the population of
minorities will grow rapidly, and the sex and age ratios will shift slightly.

Women, for example, are expected to total 166 million in 2020, 50.9 percent of
the population, down slightly from 51.2 percent now.

Effect of Immigration

Immigration, which tends to be largely male, will probably be the main factor in
this expected shift, Mr. Campbell said.

Whites will still make up by far the largest number of Americans but not as big
a percentage as they do now. The white population will shrink from to 78.2
percent, from 83.3 percent.

Immigration and rapid population growth are expected to make people of Hispanic
descent the nation's largest minority by 2020, totaling 51.2 million, or 15.7
percent of the population, up from 9.7 percent in 1993.

Blacks will be the second-largest minority at 45.4 million people, 13.9 percent,
up from 12.5 percent.

Asians and Pacific Islanders, too, will see significant growth, rising to 22.6
million, or 6.9 percent, from 3.4 percent.

American Indians will increase their share of the population from eight-tenths
of 1 percent to nine-tenths of 1 percent, rising to 3.1 million in 2020.

In 30 years the South is expected to be the big gainer from internal population
moves, with losses occurring in the Northeast and Midwest. Immigration from
outside the country, however, should nearly balance the losses in the northern
regions.

California is expected to be the biggest gainer as people arrive from other
countries, though, followed by New York, Texas, Florida, New Jersey and
Illinois.

The outlook calls for California to remain No. 1 in total population, increasing
to 47.9 million people from 29.9 million.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 23, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Public & Private;
To the Grand Jury

BYLINE: By ANNA QUINDLEN

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 25;  Column 5;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 725 words


Offered for your consideration: two incredible stories. One of them is true.

Either a police officer is a serial rapist of black men, or a group of livery
van drivers have conspired in a form of payback the likes of which New York City
has never seen.

In April 1993 an immigrant who made a living ferrying passengers up and down the
Rockaway Peninsula complained to police investigators that he had been sodomized
by a cop. Unlike most sex crimes, there were allegedly three witnesses, three
acquaintances who came looking for the van after, they say, it had been spirited
away from a parking space in front of a coffee shop to a remote and deserted
area several blocks away.

One of those witnesses later said he, too, had been raped months before by the
same cop. By the end of 1993, the number of alleged victims was up to five. The
men, all immigrants, some illegal aliens, have filed a civil suit against the
city and the police officer, Reggie Rivera, who has not been removed from active
duty. They are seeking damages of almost half a billion dollars.

Few of those involved in this investigation will speak on the record, although
one law enforcement type called it "a hell of a mess," which seems to cover it
nicely. It is duly noted that several of the alleged victims had been ticketed
by Officer Rivera, who was well known to the drivers for his persistent pressure
on the illegal gypsy van trade. It is duly noted that all this may be a way to
get back at him.

But it should also be duly noted that it would be hard to imagine a more extreme
way to do so. Take the stigma that still attaches to the victim of rape, inflate
it with the helium of homophobia and traditional standards of masculinity, and
you understand why the rape of men is still vastly underreported. The lawyer
representing the van drivers, Leon Greenberg, says his clients are deeply
ashamed of what they say was done to them. To pose as a male rape victim in
order to put the kibosh to a cop seems scarcely credible.

Neither does the tale of a cop who prowls the precinct hijacking van drivers in
their own vehicles and sodomizing them while in uniform. Two incredible stories.
Yet one is true.

Leaders in the black community say that the reason you haven't read about what
they've dubbed the Rockaway Five in the mainstream media, as you did the rape of
a Russian immigrant by a gang of black teen-agers beneath the boardwalk in Coney
Island, is because the alleged victims are black. They contend that the police
are covering up for the cop and the D.A. for the police.

It's hard to tease out the truth of those charges from the other issues clouding
the case. Mr. Greenberg has the unfortunate knack for hyperbole that makes good
reporters suspicious; he likes to say there may be more than 100 victims, which
could make Officer Rivera the most heinous sex criminal in city history.

The alleged victims came forward too late to examine them for the sort of
physical injuries that usually accompany anal rape. Some of those familiar with
the case say their accounts are what sex-crime prosecutors call "conclusory,"
with little detail, and that there are inconsistencies in their stories. Mr.
Greenberg denies this. There are dueling polygraphs, different results.

But one thing is clear about this case. It has been mishandled. Both the police
and the District Attorney's office have been investigating for more than a year.
Yet they have neither removed Officer Rivera from active duty nor restored his
reputation by concluding that the charges are baseless. No grand jury has heard
evidence in this matter.

Prosecutors insist they are mounting a "thorough investigation," which sometimes
means thorough and sometimes, historically, has meant long enough to let the
fire burn down in an incendiary case. A thorough investigation is fine; an
interminable one is disgraceful. If prosecutors can affirmatively disprove any
or all of these charges, they should say so. If they cannot, this case should go
forward and be presented to a grand jury. It most certainly will not fade away,
nor should it.

One of these two incredible stories is true. Either way there is an explosive
crime here. The sooner it is treated as such, and not as a he said/ he said in a
newspaper column or a public philippic on the subject of race, the better.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOS REPORT: LOWER MANHATTAN;
. . . and the New Poor Dream of Escape

BYLINE: By JANE LII

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 6;  Column 5;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 413 words


The Bowery has traditionally been a sanctuary for derelicts with futures as
bleak as the nights they roam. Now the area is filled with the poor of a
different kind: recent Chinese immigrants with dreams of making it rich in
America.

One block west of the Bowery, in an Elizabeth Street tenement, Liu Pen, a
19-year-old recent immigrant from Fujian, China, shares a one-bedroom apartment
with nine others like him. What he calls home is more like a shrunken army
barracks. Five bunk beds line the walls, jammed in tight. The rent is $700 a
month. Each tenant pays $70.

Mr. Liu and his roommates were smuggled into this country with dreams of owning
stores, restaurants and factories. But for now, they work as busboys, cooks and
drivers in Chinese restaurants and garment factories to pay off smuggling debts
as high as $50,000. One roommate, Wong Bing, 40, was the lucky one, owing only
$15,000. He got a break because his smuggler was a distant relative. Out of
their monthly salaries, which average about $1,500 a month, each must pay $1,000
to his smugglers. They also dutifully send money home to their families.

There is little money after that. Mr. Liu and his roommates don't judge the
derelicts. Like them, they are down and out. But the only bottles here are
filled with soy sauce, fish sauce and cooking oil. Three empty Budweiser cans in
the bathroom and the kitchen are used to hold toothbrushes and cooking utensils.

The living conditions here are worse than in the flophouses on the Bowery. The
bathroom has no sink, the kitchen and shower faucets are rusty, and the linoleum
floor is ripped all over. Four of the bunk beds line the bedroom walls. The only
space is a narrow walkway in the middle of the room. The other beds are stacked
in the kitchen area. Clothes are stuffed into travel bags and garbage bags under
the beds or on the panels above them. There is no room to move around when
everyone comes home. Mr. Liu could either lie in bed or go out.

The men lower their heads when a visitor walks in. They allow virtually no
visitors except family and friends. They do not tell their landlord how many
people actually live here for fear of eviction. After dinner, they talk about
their families and brag about their children. For now, this is the only thing
that keeps them going.

"I'll be out of here in three years," Mr. Liu said. He has just taken a job as a
cashier in a Chinese restaurant in New Jersey for $1,700 a month.
   JANE LII

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 1, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOS REPORT;
BROOKLYN UPDATE

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 10;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 620 words


BRIGHTON BEACH At first glance, it seems that the immigrant peddlers selling
illegal medicines on Brighton Beach Avenue have gone.

But a closer look, the police say, reveals that the trade is thriving.

Rather than openly selling their wares, the peddlers, mostly older Russian
women, stand in front of grocery stores carrying shopping bags full of small
bottles, looking like shoppers.

The medicines they sell include drugs like Validol, a cardiac medicine that is
commonly available in pharmacies in the former Soviet Union, said Sgt. Rita
Pearl of the 61st Precinct's community policing unit. The drug is not approved
for sale in the United States.

Since police pressure on the peddlers began a little more than a year ago, there
have been six arrests and 50 summonses issued along Brighton Beach Avenue,
between Brighton 3 and Brighton 7 Streets, Sergeant Pearl said. "It's an ongoing
fight," she said. "If the money is there to be made, they're going to do this."

Pat Singer, executive director of the Brighton Beach Neighborhood Association,
said she supported the police efforts, adding that if the trade continued it
would be a setback to revitalization in the area, which often is called Little
Odessa. "Their practice is not only dangerous, it's unacceptable," she said.

Felix Andreev, executive director of the Brighton Beach Business Improvement
District, said he understood the desire to buy familiar medicines, but the drugs
were sold by unscrupulous peddlers who overstated the effectiveness. He said
many of the drugs were outdated.

Most of the customers are older Russian men and women with heart ailments, the
police said, adding that they did not know of anyone who had died after taking
the illegal medicine.

SHEEPSHEAD BAY Months after the City Board of Standards and Appeals declined to
grant a developer a zoning variance to build a Loehmann's in Sheepshead Bay, the
board has decided to give him another hearing, prolonging a bitter three-year
dispute.

On May 10, the developer for Loehmann's, the Emmons Avenue Development
Corporation, will get another opportunity to argue that a soil test that was
conducted last December revealed that suitable soil for the building's
foundation is 12 feet deep instead of the 7 feet that a prior test indicated.

Anthony Clemenza, president of the Emmons Avenue Development Corporation, said
the extra work of digging farther down to get to soil that is suitable for the
foundation will add $600,000 to the $12 million project.

A developer who can show that he must spend so much extra money that it
constitutes a hardship may be able to obtain a variance. In January, the Board
of Standards and Appeals reluctantly rejected the variance request for a
27,000-square-foot store, saying the property does not meet the legal criteria
of having exceptional features that pose a hardship to development and require a
variance from the waterfront's limit of 3,500 square feet per store.

If the developers can convince the board that their new findings present a
hardship, a favorable board decision could bring to an end a bitter dispute
between those eager to attract business and those determined to guard the area's
fishing-village atmosphere.

"I hope it means that they're finally going to wake up and approve it," said
John E. Nikas, the chairman of Community Board 15. "Unless you want the bay to
go down the tube -- then fine, don't do anything," he said.

But Steven M. Barrison, president of the Bay Improvement Group, a nonprofit
oranization that has fought the project, called the developer's claim "a sham
for people who do not know better.

"They're just trying to manufacture something that does not exist," he said.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peddlers selling their wares on Brighton Beach Avenue. (Steve
Hart for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 10, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
The Haitian Mirror

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A;  Page 23;  Column 1;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 728 words


Haiti holds up a mirror to Americans and tens of millions should look away in
shame.

They live in freedom and safety because their parents or grandparents had the
strength to flee pogroms or travel thousands of hard miles in search of work and
bread.

But for years now, when Haitians have come seeking refuge, their need deep,
their oppression relentless and their danger acute, they have been turned away.
Children and grandchildren of earlier immigrants say nothing, mumble excuses or
icily approve.

After his election, President Clinton went back on his word to allow Haitians a
decent chance at entry into the promised land, instead of capturing them at sea
and sending them back, as President Bush did. Now he has found the courage to
recognize his error, and try to rectify it.

For giving at least a hearing, at last, to black refugees he deserves respect,
not the warnings of approaching calamity that he is getting.

Black. White Americans at least should acknowledge what they see in the Haitian
mirror. The Haitians have been turned back because of the color of their skin.

It is cowardly to pretend otherwise. Haitian refugees are poor, most are
unschooled and some are ill. So were many of the European refugees without whom
this country would now be less educated, less wealthy and less healthy than it
is now.

Sons and daughters of European immigrants are among those who warn us against
Haitians. They turn out studies that are supposed to show that immigrants are a
hideous economic threat. In America, you can pick your study -- and on
immigration I pick those like the one from the Alexis de Tocqueville Institution
in Washington. Ten states with the lowest concentrations of immigrants in 1980
had an unemployment rate one-third higher than the states with relatively high
immigration.

"Hordes" -- the word has not been used much about immigrants since the early
20th century, when it was a favorite of anti-Semites and Catholic-haters. Now it
just hangs there in the talk and writing of anti-immigration groups -- Haitians
and Chinese moving toward us, over the horizon, millions and millions of
foreigners, in mass, not a one of them what you could call white.

But if we have any sense we will let the nation-building record of American
immigration guide us. If we decide some day that the U.S. just cannot handle any
new brains or more muscles, we can abandon American self-interest in immigration
then, but for heaven's sake not now.

If ever there was a country whose people deserve warmth when they seek U.S.
refuge it is Haiti. It is part of the Americas, a neighbor. The thug "police"
and "army" officers who rule the country with machete and gun are direct
descendants of the Duvalier dictatorships so long supported and armed by the
U.S. And they overturned a President who may not be to American tastes but who
was democratically elected.

Somehow, we have managed to think of only one plan to help Haitians: strangle
them ever tighter in sanctions. Sanctions against enemy governments like Iraq's,
or as pressure for a specific political purpose against a South Africa or North
Korea -- that's one thing. But sanctions that can starve out a friendly
neighboring people -- how long can the Haitians stand that? How long can we?

The Haitian mirror shows more than an American double standard just against
black refugees. American politicians and commentators who scream for heavy
bombing of Serbia, with all its risks of a wider European war, seem petrified at
the thought of any military action against a mob of Haitian killers who have
only fought unarmed civilians.

I cannot understand why the Latin American republics are not volunteering to
share military action against the Haitian thugs. But then I could never
understand why Western Europe could not handle Bosnian intervention, if it was
so hot for it, without calling for America.

U.S. intervention in Bosnia could prolong and widen war. But it is hard to
believe that U.S. armed forces could not handle the Haitian cops in a few days,
if they don't pack up and get out first.

So, a final thought for mirror-gazing. If Canadians were taken over by marauding
gangsters, surely we would offer them something better than the simple two-part
plan so many Americans think is entirely good enough for Haitians: they just
stay home, and we just starve them.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 15, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: QUEENS UP CLOSE;
School Crowding and the Budget Debate: What's at Stake?

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

SECTION: Section 14;  Page 9;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 483 words


The overcrowding in city schools is already bad, and it seems sure to get worse
over the next few years. Just how the city should, or can afford to, deal with
the situation is one of the latest issues of contention between Mayor Giuliani
and the Schools Chancellor, Ramon C. Cortines.

Citywide, enrollment rose above a million students this year, for the first time
in 15 years, and Board of Education officials predict that it will grow by
125,000 students over the next five years. Enrollments in 15 of the 32 school
districts already exceed building capacities.

But nowhere is the problem as serious as in Queens, where tens of thousands of
immigrants, mostly from Latin America and Asia, have swelled the rolls in recent
years.

The most crowded district in Queens, and in the entire city, is District 24,
where about 17,000 immigrants from 112 nations settled between 1982 and 1989.
Today, the schools in the district, which includes Corona and Elmhurst, operate
at an average 140 percent of capacity. Closets and hallways have been converted
into classrooms.

What's more, enrollments in five of the seven Queens districts have already
overwhelmed available space, and by the year 2000 are expected to grow by
another 10,000 students each. Forty-one of the city's 100 most crowded schools
are in Queens.

To respond to the challenge, Mr. Cortines proposed -- in the $7.5 billion
five-year capital plan submitted last month -- to construct 33 new school
buildings and 17 building additions, and to replace and modernize the interiors
of other schools. The new construction, which would have provided a total of
33,807 new seats, was a secondary priority within the plan. Of primary
importance, Mr. Cortines said, was to replace roofs and repair windows and
facades in the 1,069 existing school buildings.

On May 3, Mr. Giuliani announced that he would recommend to the City Council
that the city finance only $3.4 billion of Mr. Cortines's $7.5 billion request.
Mr. Cortines responded by ordering a halt to new construction or architectural
designs after July 1 and promising to use all of the $3.4 billion on repair
work. The Mayor's decision is expected to be hotly debated as the Council takes
up his budget proposal -- especially since the Council Speaker, Peter F.
Vallone, is from Queens -- but few of the Chancellor's projects seem likely to
be revived.

Given the slim outlook for significant construction during the next five years,
Mr. Cortines said the city would have to redouble efforts to use existing school
buildings more efficiently. "The crisis in overcrowding we face now will seem
absolutely modest by comparison," he said. The city may have to consider
splitting the school day into several shifts, teaching some classes at night and
instituting year-round education.

Below is a district-by-district look at enrollment in Queens schools.<?  SAM
DILLON

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Parents who waited overnight in an effort to get their children
into P.S. 129 in College Point. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

Table: "STATUS REPORT: Overcrowding in Queens Schools" lists the most
overcrowded schools in each Queens district during the 1992-93 school year.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 16, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Van Drivers Pursue Rape Charges Against Officer

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2132 words


In April of 1993, an African-born livery van driver from Rockaway Beach accused
a male police officer of raping him at gunpoint. Four acquaintances of the
driver told the police they witnessed the incident, but the case was not
presented to a grand jury for a decision on whether the officer should be tried.

A few months later, four more men -- all black, all immigrants from Africa or
the Caribbean and all connected with the furtive, unlicensed van trade in the
Rockaway area -- accused the officer, Reggie Rivera, of sodomizing them as well.

Police investigators and officials of the Queens District Attorney's office say
that in the last 13 months they have tried but have been unable to collect
enough evidence to prosecute the case.

Law-enforcement authorities, speaking on the condition that they not be named,
say they tried to conduct a thorough investigation, interviewing all parties and
searching for evidence, but they were hampered by discrepancies and inconclusive
accounts from the accusers and the four men who said they witnessed the first
incident. The authorities said they feared the accusers had concocted an
outlandish story to get rid of an officer whose job was to crack down on their
livelihood.

Two lawyers for the accusers, however, have said the charges were ignored
because the accusers are black immigrants who live at society's margins. They
charge that the police and the District Attorney's office have reacted with
disbelief to the accusations to protect one of their own.

"Rapes are not usually committed in the presence of other people," said Adam
Thompson, one of the lawyers for the accusers. "Here you have four people saying
they saw it. but instead of presenting that evidence to a grand jury, the D.A.
has spent its time attacking the credibility of the witnesses and the victims."

Weekly Demonstrations

In recent weeks the allegations have become a rallying point among some black
New Yorkers who agree with the accusers that the authorities did not
aggressively pursue the case. The Rev. Al Sharpton and the Rev. Timothy Mitchell
of the Ebenezer Baptist Church in Flushing have held weekly demonstrations
outside the office of the Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown, demanding
action in the case.

Now, amid the protests, investigators appear to be mounting a new effort.
Officials are conducting a new round of interviews with the accusers, and the
Federal Bureau of Investigation has stepped in to assist the District Attorney's
office.

At the same time, the five drivers are pressing a $200 million Federal civil
suit against the officer and the city, charging that their civil rights were
violated by the reported rapes. On Friday, after the accusers' lawyers charged
that Officer Rivera had been harassing witnesses in the case, Federal Judge
David G. Trager approved an agreement under which Officer Rivera will be
restricted from entering the two precincts in the Rockaways for 60 days, and is
specifically ordered to stay away from the accusers and their witnesses. The
judge had earlier rejected the lawyers' request that Officer Rivera be
restricted to a desk job.

Judge Discounts Partner's Testimony

The judge made the ruling several days after Officer Rivera's partner testified
that he and Officer Rivera had pulled over one of the witnesses for not wearing
a seat belt. The partner, Officer Julian Lee Antkies, denied that they had been
harassing the witness, but Judge Trager later said his testimony was "hard to
believe."

"I do not credit this officer in his account one whit about what happened,"
Judge Trager said.

Officer Rivera, 37, a 10-year veteran with seven medals and an unblemished
service record, refuses to comment on the charges. Last month he was transferred
from the Rockaways to the 107th Precinct in Fresh Meadows; a police spokesman
said the action was taken in his best interests and was not considered a
disciplinary measure.

Officer Rivera's lawyer, James Lysaght, chief counsel for the Patrolmen's
Benevolent Association, denied the charges, calling them despicable. He said
Officer Rivera was preparing to sue the accusers for defamation.

"They have taken a fine police officer with a fine track record and defamed
him," Mr. Lysaght said. "It's clear that their motives are venal -- they were
angry at his active enforcement of the law. It's nothing short of tragic."

Lawyers involved on all sides of the criminal and civil aspects of the
investigation describe it as one of the most complex and difficult cases they
have handled, partly because of the involvement of a police officer and partly
because of the background of the accusers and the illegal nature of their jobs.

In fact, lawyers defending the city in the civil case are using several of the
accusers' long records of driving violations -- as well as their practice of
providing phony identification cards to officers who stop their vans -- to
challenge their credibility.

"I don't think I've ever seen a case as complex as this one," said a
law-enforcement official involved with the case, who spoke on the condition that
he not be identified. "Just when you think the drivers are bad actors who made
it all up to get rid of Rivera, you wonder why they would invent being
sodomized, which is so horrible. Why not say they had been beaten up? Usually,
you have some sense of who is telling the truth, but not this time."

At the center of the case is a 37-year-old van driver, a married citizen who has
been in this country for 11 years. In an interview with The New York Times, the
driver gave an account of his abduction and rape by Officer Rivera on Jan. 28,
1993. The identities of the driver and the other accusers are being withheld by
The Times, which does not ordinarily identify complainants in sex crimes.

The man, whose account also forms the basis of the civil case, said he had been
sitting on the passenger side of a friend's van parked outside a coffee shop at
Beach 86th Street in Rockaway Beach when Officer Rivera opened the door and sat
behind the wheel.

The officer asked him, "Where's your boyfriend?" the driver said, and when the
driver told him to get out, the officer started the van and drove it to a
deserted dead-end street several blocks away. The driver said he was then
handcuffed to one of the floor-to-ceiling poles in the van. The officer then
drew a gun, pulled down the driver's pants and sodomized him, the driver said.

'I Tried to Struggle,' The Driver Says

"I thought he was going to kill me," said the driver, weeping. "I tried to
struggle, but there was nothing I could do."

Four acquaintances of the driver were inside the coffee shop and had seen the
officer drive the van away, the driver said, and came looking for him in a car.
When they spotted the van, said the driver and a witness who accompanied him to
the interview and who spoke only on the condition of anonymity, they walked up
to the door and saw the driver bent over with his pants down and Officer Rivera
standing behind him. The two men said Officer Rivera waved his gun at them and
told the friends to "back off."

"What I did wrong?" the driver asked as he was interviewed. "Because I am a van
driver, I can get raped and treated like dirt, and no one does anything? And he
is still on the street. I want my justice!" Ending the interview, he stood up
from his chair and collapsed on the floor; a half-hour later, he was still
crying.

Further complicating the case are the actions of the drivers' lawyers, Mr.
Thompson, 29, and Leon Greenberg, 32. Law-enforcement officials say the lawyers
have hampered the investigation by issuing news releases, holding a news
conference and appearing at rallies in support of the accusers. But the lawyers
say they reluctantly sought publicity after a year of frustration in which no
official action was taken.

"The police and the D.A.'s office sat on it for a year thinking it was all a
hoax," said Mr. Thompson, who has filed more than a dozen cases against New York
City police officers charging false arrest, brutality or other violations. "What
we have tried to do is get the community and the media to look under the surface
and understand what happened here. Finally, after all the screaming and yelling
from the community, this is finally being investigated."

Mr. Brown, the Queens District Attorney, would not comment on the details of the
case or the reasons for the yearlong investigation, except to say it had been
thorough and painstaking.

"The investigation is continuing and is by no means concluded," he said in an
interview last week. "It will go where the evidence lands us, but one thing
should be made clear: We will not be pressured into a premature judgment. That
would be irresponsible and would not be in the public interest."

Law-enforcement officials, speaking anonymously, cite several reasons for their
decision not to present the case to a grand jury immediately. The first driver,
they say, came forward in April 1993, four months after the rape was supposed to
have occurred. The other accusers, three of whom say they were raped before the
first driver, made their accusations to the police in October and December 1993.
By waiting so long, the officials said, the accusers made it impossible to check
the medical and forensic evidence that often accompanies rape.

Only the first driver's claim has supporting witnesses, the officials said. They
added that three of the accusers were later unable to select Officer Rivera's
picture from a group of photos.

The officials also said that Officer Rivera, who was assigned by his precinct to
crack down on the burgeoning and often reckless unlicensed van traffic in the
Rockaways, was an extremely aggressive officer, often issuing as many as 200
tickets a day to van drivers for making unlicensed pickups and for infractions
like broken tail lights and failure to carry fire extinguishers. Officer Rivera
so burdened the lives of the drivers that they would have had a motive to
conspire to get him out of their lives, the officials said.

Lengthy Lists Of Suspensions

A check of Department of Motor Vehicle records showed that several of the
accusers have long lists of driver's license suspensions. The first driver had
his license revoked in 1991 after an accident, and has 68 suspensions for
failing to respond to tickets. D.M.V. records did not show which officer had
issued the tickets.

The lawyers for the accusers acknowledge the multiple suspensions, but say they
are the cost of doing business. They said many of the first driver's tickets
were from Officer Rivera, but said he received comparable amounts from other
officers.

"Rivera wasn't the only cop on patrol in the Rockaways," Mr. Thompson said. "And
if their goal was to get rid of him, the police would just assign somebody else
to replace him and write as many tickets. Their problems wouldn't go away. It
makes absolutely no sense."

He and Mr. Greenberg said the first driver's repeated brushes with the law made
him extremely reluctant to report the rape. In addition, the stigma of having
been sodomized was so great that it took him and the other accusers several
months to work up the courage to admit what happened to them, the lawyers said.

The lawyers said the first driver was treated with disbelief and overt hostility
when he first discussed his experience with a sergeant in the Police
Department's Internal Affairs Bureau. A day after the interview, before any
investigation had been conducted, the sergeant called Mr. Greenberg and said the
allegations were groundless and suggested the lawyer investigate the background
of his clients, Mr. Greenberg said.

Sgt. John Clifford, a spokesman for the Police Department, said the department
could not comment on the lawyers' allegations about how the case was handled.

Law-enforcement authorities said a polygraph test of the first driver, conducted
last June, was inconclusive. The lawyers said the test was conducted improperly,
and they later hired Nat Laurendi, a retired New York City police detective who
was formerly chief polygraphist for the Manhattan District Attorney's office.
Mr. Laurendi said his polygraph examinations showed that all of the accusers
were telling the truth.

People familiar with the case say the interviews being conducted now with the
accusers will be a principal factor in the District Attorney's eventual decision
whether to prosecute the case. Although the office interviewed each of the
accusers last year, the men insisted on having their lawyers present because
they distrusted the investigators. When the District Attorney's office said the
presence of the lawyers had tainted the interviews, the two sides reached a
compromise in which the F.B.I. agents would sit in.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 17, 1994, Tuesday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about five Queens men who have
accused a police officer of rape misstated one accuser's occupation. Only four
of the men were working as van drivers; one is a mechanic who was test-driving a
van at the time of the incident.


                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 16, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

PULSE;
Immigration

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 137 words


Immigration in this region jumped in the 1990's after a series of visa programs
aimed at countries "adversely affected" by the stricter immigration controls
enacted in 1965. As these new immigrants use familial ties to sponsor people,
legal immigration should continue to rise, experts predict. The latest
immigration sweepstakes is the Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery. It will make
55,000 permanent resident visas available annually to people from countries with
low rates of immigration to the U.S. such as Japan and most of Western Europe.
As a nation's rate rises or falls, it can be removed from or added to the list
of eligible countries. New York City planners expect more people from eastern
Europe and Africa as a result of the new program. The mail-in period for the
first "DV-1" visas is June 1 to June 30.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Immigration" shows the 1995 Diversity Immigrant Visa Lottery
and number of immigrants to the metropolitan area from 1986 to 1992. (Source:
Immigration and Naturalization Service, State Department, N.Y.C. Department of
City Planning)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 17, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. SENDING BACK HAITIAN REFUGEES DESPITE NEW PLAN

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 1;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1233 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 16


In the eight days since President Clinton announced a change in American policy
on returning Haitian refugees, the United States has sent 618 fleeing Haitians
back to Port-au-Prince without providing hearings to assess their claims of
persecution.

The direct return of the Haitians, including 341 who were sent ashore in Haiti
this morning, is in keeping with the policy that Mr. Clinton said he would
change. The total returned to Haiti since Mr. Clinton's announcement has already
nearly matched the number sent back so far this year.

Administration officials say the forced return of so many refugees reflects some
of the difficulties officials have encountered in finding suitable ways to
process requests for asylum at sea or in other countries, as Mr. Clinton
promised, instead of simply sending the Haitians home.

Mr. Clinton has steadfastly ruled out letting Haitians land in the United
States, and only the small percentage judged eligible for political asylum will
be admitted.

With other Caribbean countries having so far refused to allow the hearings on
their shores, the Defense Department has chartered a 700-berth,
Ukrainian-flagged cruise ship, the Gruziya, for possible use in providing
immigration hearings at sea, the Pentagon said today.

But that vessel will not report for duty for at least a week, and Administration
officials said today that another week or more may pass before it can be put it
into service. A second newly chartered Ukrainian vessel, the Ivan Franko, will
not be available until early June after it steams from the Black Sea, the
officials said.

In announcing the new policy on May 8, Mr. Clinton cautioned that it could take
"some weeks" before he could fulfill his promise that the Coast Guard would no
longer automatically turn back the Haitian migrants that it intercepted at sea.
The President said then that the "direct return" policy he held over from the
Bush Administration would continue until ships or ports were found so the new
plan could be put into action.

Administration officials have said that private bids were sought because neither
Coast Guard vessels nor United States Navy ships have the space to carry large
numbers of asylum-seekers. The Pentagon said it awarded the contract to a
Ukrainian shipping company after no American companies submitted a bid.
 The latest return of Haitian refugees by the Coast Guard to the docks in
Port-au-Prince has prompted angry attacks from the very critics his announcement
was meant to assuage.

Randall Robinson, the human rights advocate who ended a 27-day hunger strike
after Mr. Clinton agreed to the policy change, accused the President today of
"bad faith" for continuing to permit the fleeing Haitians to be returned to the
hands of the country's military authorities.

"The fact that you are exposing people to the tyranny of the military simply
because the means are not in place for the processing of individuals shows where
the President's heart is," Mr. Robinson said.

The resurgent criticism comes amid mounting signs of intransigence from Haitian
military leaders, whom the United States and its allies are trying to force from
power to allow the return of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's
democratically elected President who is now living in exile.

Prime Minister Pushed Aside

Today, Emil Jonassaint, the provisional President installed last week by a rump
group in Parliament backed by the army, stripped the powers of the acting Prime
Minister, Robert Malval, after he called on Haitians to defy the new government.

Mr. Jonassaint, an 81-year-old Supreme Court Justice, announced that he would
serve both as provisional President and as Prime Minister, violating a central
provision of the Haitian Constitution that calls for separation between the
heads of state and Government.

Allies of Mr. Jonassaint said he intended to rule by decree, disregarding the
elected legislature and relying only on his far-right supporters and the army.

Military Pulls the Strings

The statement by Mr. Jonassaint was broadcast on army-controlled state
television and radio stations after Mr. Malval called on state workers to
disregard all orders from Mr. Jonassaint and the army commander, Lieut. Gen.
Raoul Cedras. In a fiercely worded speech to the nation, Mr. Malval also called
on General Cedras to resign "so that a new dawn may break for the Haitian
people."

Mr. Malval, a highly respected publisher and reluctant politician, called Mr.
Jonassaint "a puppet" and said the provisional leader could never take the place
of Father Aristide, who has lived in the United States since his ouster by the
military more than two and a half years ago.

Although Mr. Malval was picked by Mr. Aristide last October to take charge of a
transitional government, he has not exercised day-to-day control in Haiti since
last December, and it was unclear what effect his call would have on a
government already in deep financial trouble.

One union leader who supports Mr.  Malval expressed doubt that his statement
would have much effect.

"I don't think it's a call that the people will respect," said Jean-Claude
Lebrun, the head of Haitian Workers Confederation. "He hasn't spoken for so many
months. If he'd had permanent contact with the people then the public could
respond."

Winding Ever Tighter

The clash between the rival leaders is nevertheless bound to add to political
tensions, not just in Haiti, but also between Port-au-Prince and Washington,
where the White House today praised Mr. Malval's denunciation of what it called
Haiti's "bogus authorities."

"We will keep tightening the pressure on the military leadership until they step
down," Dee Dee Myers, the White House spokeswoman, said in a written statement.

On a trip to Ottawa, Defense Secretary William J. Perry said without elaboration
that some recent signals from Haiti had left the impression that the military
leaders might want to step down.

But the new surge of Haitian refugees intercepted by Coast Guard vessels in
recent days also appears likely to renew pressure on the Administration to find
some way to ease their hardship.

Until Mr. Clinton introduced his new policy, the Coast Guard had intercepted and
returned 855 Haitian refugees to Port-au-Prince since the year began. Its
vessels, which maintain a protective cordon around Haiti, have since intercepted
603 more refugees in seven boats; the total of 618 returned to Haiti aboard
Coast Guard cutters Friday and today included 15 intercepted before Mr. Clinton
made his announcement.

Different Policy, Same Intent

Those picked up by the Coast Guard in recent days have included 252 Haitians
found aboard an overcrowded sailboat in the waters north of Haiti early Saturday
morning, and Administration officials said they recognized today that word of
the impending change in American policy might have encouraged some to leave.

Mr. Robinson and other critics said they believed that the Administration should
provide hearings for the refugees in Florida until it is able to do so at sea or
in other countries.

But officials who defended the return of the refugees to Port-au-Prince said it
might at least make clear that the United States still has no intention of
opening its arms to Haitian migrants. "If the word's not out yet, it's going to
get out," a senior White House official said today.


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 21, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Migrant Oasis;
Central American Day Laborers Are Drawn to a Suburb

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 23;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk;  Second Front

LENGTH: 920 words

DATELINE: SPRING VALLEY, N.Y., May 18


Journeying across nations in search of work, Lazaro Chinchilla arrived here
about a month ago to share a run-down bungalow with seven other men in a rugged
settlement of migrants like himself.

"Hunger brought us here," Mr. Chinchilla, an immigrant from Guatemala, said the
other day as he wandered along one of the dusty roads that lace the settlement,
called El Petencito by its residents. "But it feels like we have come to the
edge of the earth."

In fact, the small community of some 20 bungalows housing slightly more than 100
is only a few steps from the buzz and neon glow of Route 59, a typically
suburban strip of dairy marts, fast-food joints and car dealerships in this
Rockland County village.

But tucked behind a wooded area alongside a waterfall, El Petencito -- named
after part of Guatemala's frontier -- is an outpost of Central American workers
who have come here in search of jobs laying bricks, planting trees, mowing
lawns, tending gardens, cleaning homes, whatever they can get.

Only a generation or so ago this same cluster of bungalows was known simply as
Hyenga Lake, a popular summer retreat for New York City residents seeking a
respite from the urban grind. Its transformation into a migrant camp underscores
how the quest for work has driven some of the metropolitan New York region's
newest immigrants to improbable places.

The Guatemalans and Salvadorans who have settled in El Petencito are little
different from the Mexican day laborers who gather at dawn on a street corner in
Mamaroneck in Westchester County or the Hondurans who wait each morning for jobs
along Main Street in Mount Kisco farther up county. The Center for Immigrants
Rights in Manhattan estimates that there are about 3,000 such day laborers in
the region, most of them from Central American countries.

But the striking thing about El Petencito -- where the yards and paths are a
jumble of clothes lines, wooden crates, gardening tools and broken cars -- is
that, only 25 miles north of the George Washington Bridge, it resembles a
tightly knit and secluded Central American village. At dusk, men gather
alongside bungalows trading stories and news about their homeland as the rattle
of pans and dishes echo from within the houses.

Many of its settlers -- including some who admit they are in the country
illegally -- say they are simply passing through with the aim of amassing enough
savings to take back a nest egg for their families at home.

Meanwhile, El Petencito represents an inexpensive way station where the rents --
which residents say run $600 to $700 a month for each bungalow -- are split
among the men who cram themselves into its bungalows.

"I sleep on the floor or wherever," said Mr. Chinchilla, who is 45 years old.

This is not the first time that Mr. Chinchilla has come to Spring Valley for
work. He spent a year here in 1987 washing dishes at a local restaurant for $300
a week before returning to his wife and four children with $1,500 in savings.

This time he makes as much as $50 a day in landscaping and construction work. "I
don't know when I will go back," he said. "But this area is good because there
are many jobs."

Not everyone is pleased about El Petencito, most of which is within the
boundaries of Clarkstown. As the newcomers have proliferated in the last few
years, some longtime residents have complained of litter, overcrowding and other
problems that they contend have put a strain on local services.

"I've been down there a couple of times, and I'm appalled by the conditions,"
said Spring Valley's Mayor, Allan Thompson. "I'm sure most of them are
law-abiding people who want an opportunity. But it is not the kind of
environment I like to see close to my village."

The entrance to El Petencito is marked by rows of metal mailboxes often stuffed
with letters arriving from abroad. The people of the settlement gather there
each morning, on the edges of Route 59, to secure a day's work from anyone who
will hire them.

Their way of life has its risks. Juan Hernandez, 39, said the owner of a
landscaping company had hired him to plant trees and flowers one day four months
ago. At the end of the day, however, the man drove Mr. Hernandez back to the
settlement and refused to pay.

"He told me he'd pay me the next day, but never did," Mr. Hernandez recalled.
"Almost all of us have been through something like that. It's part of the life
here."

These days, though, he works full time at a factory where he prints designs on
shirts. Earning about $200 a week, Mr. Hernandez regularly wires money to his
wife and three children in Guatemala.

"It saddens me not to be with them." he said. "But it's a sacrifice that I have
to make to support my family."

Jobs are not the only thing that bring the newcomers to suburban hamlets. Many
say that such areas offers them a level of security and tranquillity that they
feel is lacking in larger cities like New York and Los Angeles.

"My intention was to stay in New York City when I came," said Juan Jose Ramirez,
as he washed his car at the edge of a lake near his bungalow.

"But in the city," the 22-year-old Guatemalan immigrant continued, "we would
live in despair, locked up inside apartments. This is much calmer; it reminds me
of our country."

Likewise, Alejandro Medina, 22, said he left Bridgeport, Conn., where he was
living with a friend, after his family urged him to join them in El Petencito.
"They told me that there was work and that I would be living with my own
people," he recalled.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Migrant laborers from Central America have established a
settlement in Spring Valley, N.Y., seeking jobs and the security of a suburban
community. A few waited near the settlement along Route 59 yesterday for offers
of work. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)(pg. 23)

Map of New York showing location of Spring Valley. (pg. 27)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 22, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The World;
Foreign Policy: Florida Has One

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 4;   Page 1;   Column 1;   Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1317 words

DATELINE: MIAMI


To the dismay of Florida's 14 million residents, the American system of
government does not give states a formal role in determining foreign policy. But
with Haiti descending deeper into chaos and Cuba's future more in doubt than
ever, Gov. Lawton Chiles and other state officials are insisting that they will
not sit by and merely watch as another administration in Washington stumbles in
the Caribbean and then expects Florida to pay the price of its failure.

So Florida in recent years has tried to have its own foreign policy -- including
the sorts of panels and policy wonks usually more characteristic of a sovereign
nation. Even before the current Haiti crisis (last night a tighter United
Nations embargo was scheduled to take effect in the effort to restore democracy
there), Florida's foreign policy objectives were essentially twofold: encourage
the flow of foreign trade and investment and limit the flow of illegal
immigrants and political refugees. Constitutional impediments notwithstanding,
Mr. Chiles has had some success in reminding the Federal Government that it can
ill afford to ignore Florida's interests and concerns. Just last month he filed
a lawsuit in which he argued that since foreign affairs are a Federal
responsibility, so is the care of the immigrants who flock here as a result of
Washington's decisions.

Florida, of course, is hardly the only state that has been forced to develop a
foreign policy. With Texas and California in the lead, the Southwestern states
meet regularly with their counterparts on the Mexican side of the border to
discuss problems, bypassing both Washington and Mexico City. Out of practical
necessity, cities along both the Mexican and Canadian border have also forged
ties with their neighbors. And then there is the case of New York City when
Edward I. Koch was Mayor and seemed to have an opinion on every issue from the
Middle East to China.

But Florida is a singular case, if only because of its location. Miami, for
example, lies closer to 16 Latin American and Caribbean capitals than to
Washington, D.C. So while some other border states have the luxury of focusing
on Mexico or Canada, Florida must cope with the consequences of serving as the
main port of entry for some 30 countries. "Today's international problems become
Florida's problems tomorrow," said Mark B. Rosenberg, the departing director of
the Latin American and Caribbean Center at Florida International University
here. "Our geography gives us a proximity and immediacy to foreign affairs that
we cannot escape."

At the moment, the most pressing issue for the state is obviously Haiti. Having
absorbed successive waves of Cuban, Haitian and Nicaraguan refugees during the
1980's, each in the amount of 100,000 or more, the state is eager to avoid yet
another influx. As a result, both of Florida's senators, Bob Graham, a Democrat,
and Connie Mack, a Republican, favor military intervention in Haiti.

"It's the only option left that will send the message to the military there,"
Mark Mills, an aide to Mr. Mack, said. "Tighter sanctions will just increase the
number of Haitians who attempt to make it to Florida." In comments sure to
please Florida's Congressional delegation, Mr. Clinton last week listed his
reasons for considering military force, including preventing another huge exodus
to Florida. "It's in our backyard," he said of Haiti.

Mr. Chiles, a Democrat who is running for re-election, says the Clinton
Administration over all has been "more sympathetic" to Florida's concerns than
were its Republican predecessors. But he also acknowledged that Haiti policy is
"based on a number of factors that are competing, and Florida is only one part
of them." Though Florida has 25 electoral votes that Mr. Clinton would dearly
like to win in a campaign for re-election (having lost them narrowly in 1992),
the President is also, as Mr. Chiles pointed out, "under attack by certain
members of the Congressional Black Caucus," who also wield considerable clout
and are pushing for at least a more humanitarian stance toward Haitian refugees.

The worsening situation in Haiti, however, is by no means the main foreign
policy headache of state officials. President Clinton's policy turnabout this
month, ending the forced repatriation of Haitian refugees intercepted on the
high seas, did not set off alarm bells here, in large part because the move was
seen as essentially cosmetic rather than substantive, intended to end the fast
of the lobbyist Randall Robinson. Haitian boat people were already landing as
far north as Fort Pierce, more than 100 miles north of Miami, and are expected
to continue doing so, but in a trickle rather than a flood.

It is instead the prospect of tumultuous change in Cuba that appears to haunt
policymakers in the state. "In the long run, the Cubans have much more potential
for getting here than Haitians," said Ambler Moss, a former American Ambassador
to Panama who is head of the North-South Center at the University of Miami.
"We're not talking fragile wooden boats, but 747's" and perhaps even flotillas
of Cuban-Americans rushing over to Havana to bring back relatives should the
Communist regime of Fidel Castro fall. "What is the Coast Guard going to do,
fire on American citizens trying to rescue their families?" Dr. Rosenberg asked.

The anxiety is also fed by the conviction that the White House, already
entangled in one unwanted crisis in the Caribbean, has avoided dealing with, or
even planning for, the end of the Castro regime. Mr. Chiles has responded by
reviving the Florida Commission on a Free Cuba, to examine the impact on the
state of a new government in Havana, and revitalizing the Florida International
Affairs Commission, which advises him on commercial and political ties with the
world. The Dade County Office of Emergency Management and Greater Miami Chamber
of Commerce have drawn up their own contingency plans for the arrival of 250,000
or more Cubans, and are working closely with the state government in
Tallahassee.

"We know that sooner or later, something is going to happen in Cuba, and we are
trying to prepare ourselves as much as we can," Mr. Chiles said. The Governor,
who served in the United States Senate for 18 years before being elected to the
Statehouse in 1990, added: "I've talked to the President about Cuba, but I have
not tried to persuade him of what his policy toward Cuba should be. I'm not in
that business anymore."

Politically, Mr. Clinton has little to gain by tinkering with Cuba policy.
During the 1992 campaign, he made some inroads in the Cuban-American vote, and
picked up many large donations from wealthy Cuban exiles, after pledging his
support of a tightened embargo of Cuba. Haitians, in contrast, are not yet a
major voting bloc in the state and must rely on purely moral arguments.

Paradoxically, Florida can take some consolation in the knowledge that its links
with Latin America offer opportunities even when stability is absent from the
region. "Here in Florida, we have been living off capital flight and political
exiles for decades," said Diego Asencio, a former senior American diplomat and
ex-chairman of the Florida International Affairs Commission. "We have a lot of
wealthy migrants, but those are not the type of immigrants that people complain
about."

Nevertheless, Florida prefers a state of political calm in which economic growth
can flourish. The state lobbied hard to win the hemispheric summit, in which 30
heads of state will gather here late this year, and hopes to use the gathering
as a platform to win Washington over to the idea of a Western Hemisphere Free
Trade Association. Even if Haiti and Cuba fade as issues, further initiatives in
international affairs are likely. "Basically," Dr. Rosenberg said, "we've
discovered that foreign policy is too important to be left to the Federal
Government."

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boat builders in Leogane, Haiti, a departure point for Haitian
refugees. (Associated Press)(pg.1); Nicaraguan refugees awaited asylum in 1989
at a detention center in Miami. (Alex Quesada/Matrix)(pg.5)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 23, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Concern Over Fake Fingerprints

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 12;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 22


Criminals from other countries or terrorists may have been granted residency or
other benefits in the United States because they were able to use fraudulent
fingerprints bought from street vendors to circumvent background checks, an
inspector general's report on the Immigration and Naturalization Service says.

The immigration service requires fingerprints from every alien seeking
naturalization or other Federal benefits, but, the Justice Department report
said, because the agency no longer maintains its own fingerprint operation, it
is the responsibility of the alien to supply the prints.

When an alien applies for naturalization, the immigration agency directs him to
local professional fingerprinting services. But when the person submits his
prints, which are forwarded to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for
background checks, officials have no way of knowing if the prints are genuine.
The result, the Inspector General's Office of the Justice Department said, is a
growing illicit business in false fingerprints that aliens can buy from vendors,
sometimes for less than $10.

If the F.B.I. cannot match the submitted prints to those in its records, the
immigration agency may grant an applicant the benefits he is seeking, like
residency or refugee status.

Last year 866,313 aliens applied for Federal benefits, and of those, about 9,000
convicted felons were turned down based on the F.B.I.'s findings.

Because of the possibility of false prints, immigration officials said, they
have no idea how many more applicants should have been rejected.

In addition, many applicants whose real fingerprints confirmed a criminal
background were still granted benefits, said Don Crossetti, the Acting Assistant
Commissioner of Adjudication at the immigration agency, because the F.B.I. and
the agency do not always communicate effectively.

The report recommends that the immigration agency begin procedures to verify the
authenticity of fingerprints.

The report was released in February but came to light only this month when
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Democrat of Connecticut, drafted a letter to the
Department of Justice seeking a response to it.

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 24, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Relatives of Confessed Mexican Assassin Seek Asylum in U.S.

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A;  Page 10;  Column 3;  Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 651 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, May 23


The mother and five other relatives of the young factory worker who confessed to
killing Mexico's leading presidential candidate two months ago have crossed
illegally into the United States and asked for political asylum, their lawyers
said today.

The relatives of the accused gunman, Mario Aburto Martinez, told immigration
officials on Sunday that they feared for their safety if they remained in this
border city, where part of the family has lived for years.

The asylum request is only the latest in a series of strange twists in the
mysterious death of Luis Donaldo Colosio, the heavily favored candidate of the
governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, who was shot at point-blank range
as he left a campaign rally here on March 23.

For the first time, however, the petition could put the United States Government
in the uncomfortable position of having to pass public judgment on the way in
which the Administration of President Carlos Salinas de Gortari has handled the
case.

A Los Angeles lawyer representing Mr. Aburto's family, Peter Schey, said the
migrant relatives had not specified to American immigration officials who had
threatened them. Mr. Aburto's father, Ruben Aburto Cortez, who lives in Los
Angeles, said he believes that his son is the innocent scapegoat in a plot
against Mr. Colosio involving the Government or its party.

In a telephone interview, Mr. Schey said that with Mr. Aburto's entire nuclear
family now safe in the United States, his relatives might provide a fuller
explanation of his activities before the assassination.

Until now, Mr. Aburto's father has offered a different account, suggesting that
his son was set up by men assigned to control the crowd at Mr. Colosio's rally.
Two of the men have been jailed with him, while two others have been named in
news accounts of the investigation.

But as intriguing as the family's accounts has been the seeming lack of interest
in them among investigators in the Colosio case.

Mr. Aburto's mother, Maria Luisa Martinez, 45, has been questioned only once.
Mr. Aburto's father, who fled Mexico after being implicated in the shooting
death of his brother some 20 years ago in the western state of Michoacan, has
said he will speak to Mexican officials if they guarantee him immunity and allow
him to visit his son in prison, but investigators have apparently found the
condition unacceptable.

U.S. Response Uncertain

How immigration authorities might process the request of Mr. Aburto's relatives
-- Mrs. Martinez, his two younger sisters, aged 16 and 10, his brother, Jose
Luis, 19, and his brother's common-law wife and 2-year-old son -- remained
uncertain today.

A spokesman for the service in San Diego, Rudy Murillo, said, "We cannot comment
on the status, if any, of family members of Mario Aburto Martinez." He quickly
added that the cases of foreigners who request asylum are treated
confidentially.

Though Mr. Aburto's six relatives were named by both Mr. Schey and by Mexican
journalists who followed them over the 10-foot metal fence that divides Tijuana
from San Ysidro, Calif., a spokesman for the United States Border Patrol would
only acknowledge that such a group had crossed and immediately surrendered to
patrol agents.

To receive asylum, immigrants must prove a reasonable fear that they will be
persecuted if they return home. And while Mexicans filed 6,241 such claims last
year, officials say only a handful are likely to be upheld. Between 1987 and
late 1991, not a single request for asylum from a Mexican was granted.

Mr. Schey, an immigration lawyer and human rights advocate, said Mr. Aburto's
relatives had told American immigration officials they did not trust the Mexican
authorities to protect them after the killing last month of Tijuana's police
chief, an opposition-party official who had also questioned the Government's
account of the Colosio case.


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: BENSONHURST;
Trying to Get Day Workers Off the Street

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section 14;  Page 8;  Column 1;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 466 words


For more than 15 years, scores of men have gathered daily along 18th Avenue in
Bensonhurst, desperately waiting for trucks, vans or cars to pull up -- their
drivers in search of unskilled laborers for low-paying jobs, often involving
construction, moving or restaurant work.

But the day workers, mostly undocumented immigrants from Mexico and Central
America, have never been met with open arms by the residents and merchants along
18th Avenue between Bay Ridge Avenue and 72d Street. They have complained that
the workers are nuisances who litter and harrass passers-by. Last year
residents' complaints led to arrests and fines for loitering. (The police say
they do not have specific arrest figures.)

"I don't want them in front of my store," said the owner of Caffe Dei Sagui, who
would not give his name. "They're ruining my business. Nobody comes here
anymore."

The local Assemblyman, Peter J. Abbate Jr., says he has met several times with
community leaders about the situation. He says he has proposed several
nonresidential blocks for the workers to gather, but advocates for the workers
refused them.

Last week, in an effort to alleviate the tension, some advocates for the workers
met with about 30 of them to discuss plans for a center, paid for with raffles
and donations, where employers could go to hire workers.

Reynaldo Guerrero, executive director of the Center for Immigrants Rights in
Manhattan, said the workers had been subjected to insults that in some instances
had led to fights. A center, he said, might help.

Some workers voiced guarded optimism, at best. Such talk, they say, is all too
familiar. "I feel it's a waste of time," said Ricardo Riviera, 22, of Guatemala.
"We've been made promises before that were not kept."

The other day, about 60 men milled about at the gathering site. Only about 10
were hired. The work, while back-breaking, tends to pay slightly more than the
minimum wage of $4.25 an hour.

On the corner of 70th Street, a man pulled up in an old car and offered a job
cleaning a restaurant kitchen. Several workers rushed to the car and
negotiations began, with the man offering $4 an hour. A few minutes later, he
raised the ante to $5. Most of the men refused; one accepted.

Reynaldo Benitez, who left 10 children at home in Honduras, did not take the
offer. His hope: a somewhat better job.

Mr. Benitez, 44, now living in Sunset Park, said he came to America about three
years ago after walking through Mexico and sneaking into Texas. He said he used
his life savings of $200 for the bus ride to New York after hearing that jobs
were plentiful here.

"My country is so poor," he said. "If I don't come here, how am I going to
support my family? The work may not pay much but it's more than I have."   GARRY
PIERRE-PIERRE

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Migrant workers who gather along 18th Avenue in Bensonhurst have
long drawn complaints from residents and merchants. (John Sotomayor/The New York
Times)

Map of Bensonhurst showing location of the day-workers gathering site.

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   May 29, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

March for Aliens' Rights

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1;  Page 15;  Column 1;  National Desk

LENGTH: 105 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 28


Carrying banners and shouting slogans, a crowd of what police said was at least
8,000 people marched on City Hall today in support of rights for immigrants.

The demonstration was peaceful, and there were no arrests, Officer Daniel Wong
of the police said.

Marta Jacques, a spokeswoman for the One-Stop Immigration Center, a nonprofit
immigrant-rights service, called on the demonstrators to continue their protests
until public awareness was raised about the rights of immigrants.

Some marchers burned an effigy of Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican who has
advocated curtailing government services to illegal aliens.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 1, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Police Raid Brooklyn Ring Holding Smuggled Children

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 4;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 921 words


Smashing what they described as a smuggling ring that brought children to
Brooklyn from Jamaica, detectives raided a Flatbush apartment yesterday and
arrested five adults they accused of collecting thousands of dollars from
anxious immigrant parents.

Two children had arrived from Jamaica over the weekend -- a boy and a girl, each
9 years old, the police said. They were sharing bunk beds in the cramped
two-bedroom apartment with six younger children who are relatives of the adults
who were taken into custody. All eight appeared to be in good condition, the
police said, but as a precaution they were taken to local hospitals for
observation.

An investigator on the case, Sgt. George Carrig, said the police found out about
the ring from a Bronx woman who had hired the suspects to bring her 9-year-old
son to this country. The boy had been living with his grandmother in Jamaica
since his mother moved to this country in 1991.

The woman, described by the police as an illegal immigrant, said that she had
paid $1,100 in advance, but had received a call yesterday saying that she could
pick up her son only if she paid another $2,000. She said she was told to hand
over the money on a street corner a few blocks from the apartment.

Phone Number Traced

Unable to raise the $2,000, the woman panicked and went to the 67th Precinct
station house, Sergeant Carrig said.

The woman, who was not identified by the police, had the telephone number of the
apartment and instructions to call when she had the money. The police traced the
number and stationed lookouts on the street while other officers went inside.
Sergeant Carrig said that while the 9-year-old's mother waited with detectives
outside the building, the boy's aunt dialed the number and confirmed that he was
inside.

Then the detectives went in.

"They were all in the living room," Sergeant Carrig said. "Eight children. It
was very, very cluttered."

The police said two women were in the apartment and told detectives that they
were the mothers of all eight children. But when the police brought in the
9-year-old's mother, the boy called out to her.

The police identified the suspects as Norma Martin, 44, who lives in the
apartment at 1417 New York Avenue; a son-in-law, Clive Vernon Thomas, 26, and
Donette Miller, 25, both of whom also live at the New York Avenue apartment; Ms
Martin's son, Hixford Martin, 24; and a cousin of Ms. Martin, Nadine Henry, of
221-23 221st Avenue in Queens Village. Mrs. Henry had spent Sunday night at the
Martin apartment after an argument with her husband, the police said.

All five were charged with kidnapping, unlawful imprisonment and endangering the
welfare of a child.

The police said they were also looking for someone they called an intermediary
in Jamaica who apparently coordinated the children's departures.

In addition, the police said that Federal officials had taken a suspect, Merle
Henry, into custody at Kennedy International Airport and were detaining her
after she arrived on a flight from Jamaica. It was not clear what charges were
contemplated.

Investigators said they assumed that the parents of the children who had been
smuggled were illegal immigrants, but were still trying to confirm that last
night. The police said that officials of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service had joined them in the investigation. But a spokesman for the agency,
Chip Bogdanski, would not provide details last night.

It was not clear whether the immigration agency planned to take the parents into
custody for being in this country illegally. But Sgt. Vincent Guerriera said the
woman who first told the police about the ring had an appointment to speak with
immigration agents at a later date.

About half a dozen relatives of the suspects gathered at the 67th Precinct
station house last night seeking information. A woman who identified herself as
Norma Martin's niece said that the suspect was a home attendant who had been in
this country about nine years.

"People come from Jamaica and she lets them stay in her house," said the niece,
Karen Henry, adding that she herself knew nothing about the people who had
arranged the passage. But she said that Ms. Martin had taken care of
just-arrived children in the past.

"They say she is kidnapping kids," Ms. Henry said, referring to the police. "But
that is not true. Her son Bobby, they are trying to say, he kidnaps kids. But
they are mistaken."

Some family members at the station house said they knew of friends or relatives
who were in this country illegally and who had arranged to have their children
brought in to join them. But they said the arrangements were not made for
profit.

It was not immediately clear how many other children the police believed the
suspects had brought to this country, how much money other parents had paid, or
whether the suspects had demanded additional payments in other cases.

Nor was it clear how the children had traveled to Brooklyn without attracting
the attention of Customs agents at an airport. The police said they assumed that
the children had flown from Jamaica to Kennedy.

Detectives at the 67th Precinct said that both children who were apparently in
this country illegally and were being held against their parents' will had been
reunited with their parents early today. The detectives said the parents were
speaking with officials of the District Attorney's office and the police. The
parent or parents of the 9-year-old girl now live in New Jersey, detectives
said.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some of the children found in a Brooklyn apartment after the
police broke up what they described as a child-smuggling ring were taken last
night to the 67th Precinct station house. (Arnie Schlissel for The New York
Times)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 2, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Separated From Children, Immigrants Grow Desperate

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section B;  Page 1;  Column 2;  Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1050 words


For many West Indian women in New York, long-term separation from their children
is a heartbreaking fact of immigrant life. And for some, like the Jamaican
mother whose son was held for ransom by smugglers this week, it is just too much
to bear.

The arrest of five people in a Jamaican child-smuggling operation on Tuesday
illuminates the desperate methods that some immigrants will employ to be
reunited with their children.

Immigration experts do not know of any widespread child smuggling from the West
Indies. This case, in which the Jamaican mother, Kay White of the Bronx, paid
smugglers to transport her child to the United States, appears to be an isolated
one, said Doug Mosier, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Washington.

Less Scrutiny of Children

But West Indian immigrants themselves say that some parents do pay
counterfeiters to forge immigration documents for their children. The parents
know -- as Chip Bogdanski, an I.N.S. spokesman in New York City, acknowledged
yesterday -- that airport inspectors are less likely to scrutinize a child's
documents.

Immigration agents, in fact, did not notice that Ms. White's son carried a
forged passport when he arrived at John F. Kennedy International Airport on a
Jamaica Air flight Sunday night. The 9-year-old boy was met at the airport by
the smugglers, who hid him in a cluttered apartment in the Flatbush section of
Brooklyn, and demanded a $2,000 ransom from his mother.

Cheryl Pearl, a baby sitter who works in Greenwich Village, said she empathized
with Ms. White. Ms. Pearl's two young children live with their grandmother in
Kingston, Jamaica. Ms. Pearl, an illegal immigrant, said she would probably buy
them forged American birth certificates if she could scrape together $1,000, the
amount she thought it would cost.

"You do not know how much pain I feel to be separated from my kids by so much
land and sea," she said. "Sometimes I feel I would do anything -- anything --
just to be able to kiss their cheeks and smell their skin."

In most West Indian immigrant families, the women are the pioneers, traveling
here alone to find domestic work, settle into new lives and then send for their
families. But even legal immigrants from Jamaica must now wait three years to
have their children follow them. For instance, Government officials are now
processing Jamaican applications filed in August 1991, according to the State
Department's latest bulletin on visas. And illegal immigrants must wait up to a
decade.

"In that much time, my children will be grown," Ms. Pearl said. "And they'll be
strangers."

Ms. White, who is in her late 20's, had been separated from her 9-year-old son
for three years when she met a woman who offered to arrange his transit for
$1,100, the police said. That woman, whose identity the police do not know,
contacted the smugglers. The smugglers told Ms. White not to go to the airport
to pick up her son.

Faced with the smugglers' demand for more money, Ms. White went to the 67th
Precinct and, with a nervous composure, sought the help of the police. The
police raided the smugglers' five-story brown building, and found eight
children: six relatives, Ms. White's son and another smuggled child, the
9-year-old daughter of a Jamaican immigrant from New Jersey.

Search in Jamaica

Four of the five adults arrested were legal immigrants; the fifth was a citizen,
immigration officials said. The police and immigration officials are now
searching for their co-conspirators in Jamaica.

After the arrests, two of the related children were turned over to grandparents
and four to child welfare officials. Ms. White's son, dressed in jeans, was
reunited with his mother, and the 9-year-old girl, who wore a plaid skirt,
rejoined her father.

Illegal immigrant women like Ms. White often find themselves in an emotional and
legal bind they had not anticipated. They cannot leave the United States until
they are legalized, and their children cannot obtain even temporary visas to
visit them. United States consulates in the Caribbean scrutinize all visa
applicants as potential immigrants, and grant tourist visas sparingly.

And so the years go by, and the mothers grow desperate.

"I never imagined it would take more than three years to get my papers, and I
been waiting six so far," said a 36-year-old Jamaican woman whose employer is
sponsoring her for a visa. "So now I found an illegal way to get my kids."

The woman said she had arranged by telephone with a "broker" in Jamaica for her
teen-age daughters to get fraudulent immigration papers. Her brother paid the
man $1,500. "I got my fingers crossed it will work," said the woman, who would
not give her name for fear the plan would be aborted.

'People Constantly Lose'

Another Jamaican woman, who also spoke on condition of anonymity, said that
women are sometimes extorted by men who take their money but never arrange
transit for their children.

"People constantly lose," she said. "But you do it until you have lost track of
how much you have spent."

Immigrants say women in those situations do not believe they have any recourse,
and so they swallow their financial loss and their hopes for a family reunion.

"I can't say it surprises me," said Kathleen Masters, lawyer for the Church
Avenue Merchants Block Association, a community group in Flatbush that counsels
immigrants. "There are people out there who for a fee will make money off the
human misery of others."

Even when Caribbean immigrant families are lucky enough to be reunited, the
years apart often have taken their toll.

"The parents try to re-establish their authority, and the kids say, 'You left
me. What do you want from me?' " said Una Clarke, a Jamaican-born member of City
Council. "We get a breakdown in discipline. It's a wrenching problem for our
community."

And sometimes, after all the years of pining for their children, immigrant women
find it difficult to fit them into their hectic American lives.

"When the kids come and join them, they still have to work two jobs and maintain
the family home and here," said Dr. Sharon-ann McNicol, a psychologist who wrote
"Working With West Indian Families" (Guilford Press, 1993). "They often don't
have time for the kids. It's very painful."


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: One of the suspects in the Jamaican child-smuggling case being
escorted yesterday from the 67th Precinct station house in Brooklyn. (V&P News
Service) (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 25, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Bar on H.I.V.-Infected Immigrants Is Retained in Final Capitol Test

BYLINE: By PHILIP J. HILTS,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 489 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 24


Supporters of allowing those infected with the virus that causes AIDS to enter
the United States lost a final battle today as conferees from both houses
endorsed continuing a prohibition on entry by infected travelers and immigrants.

The decision came as the conferees approved and sent both houses a bill
reauthorizing the National Institutes of Health and authorizing $7 billion of
its $10 billion budget for the 1994 fiscal year.

'Votes Were Simply Not There'

The bill contained a number of disputed provisions, but none was more debated
than the issue of whether persons infected with H.I.V., the virus that causes
AIDS, should be prevented from entering the country. Both Dr. Louis W. Sullivan,
the Secretary of Health and Human Services in the Bush Administration and
President Clinton said in campaign speeches that those with AIDS should not be
excluded from the country.

But Congress intervened. Voting 76 to 23, the Senate endorsed adding language to
the health institutes bill ordering the health secretary to consider H.I.V.
infection a dangerous "communicable disease of public health significance." The
House, in a 356-to-58 procedural vote, supported the same provision.

That would continue to prevent infected people from entering the United States,
unless the traveler or immigrant won a waiver, which can be difficult or
time-consuming.

White House and Health Department officials said earlier this year that they
were prepared to lift the ban. A Health Department official who would speak only
on the condition of not being named said today that Secretary Donna E. Shalala
was disappointed by the Congressional action to exclude those infected, "but the
votes were simply not there in Congress."

Public health officials have said such a ban on travel and immigration is
"unconscionable and wasteful," in the words of Dr. Jonathan M. Mann, former
director of the World Health Organization's global AIDS program.

He and other health officials argue that AIDS is not transmitted by casual
contact and is not actually a contagious disease, unlike tuberculosis, for
example, which is spread through the air.

They also say that the cost of screening travelers and immigrants would be
largely wasted because the infections it is likely to prevent will be only a
handful, especially when weighed against the huge number of infections occurring
in the United States, which has more cases of H.I.V. infection than any other
nation.

Among other provisions of the health institutes bill was one to nearly double
the financing for breast cancer research, from about $280 million to $580
million a year. Another provision ends the Bush Administration's ban on Federal
financing for research on transplants using tissue from aborted fetuses. The
research has been banned since 1988 because, the Administration argued, it might
encourage abortion among women wanting to provide tissue for the research.


LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 26, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

A Violent Path of Immigration

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: The lucrative smuggling of undocumented Chinese immigrants may
have provoked the deaths of four men in a gang fight in Teaneck, as well as the
imprisonment of 57 men in a warehouse in Jersey City, law enforcement officials
said. The owner of the warehouse, Lawrence Perlacki, looked at debris where the
prisoners were confined. Articles, page B5. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)

TYPE: Caption

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   June 7, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 644 words



NEW YORK CITY

SMUGGLED TO NEW YORK: 7 DIE AS IMMIGRANT SHIP RUNS AGROUND

A tramp steamer smuggling hundreds of illegal Chinese immigrants into New York
runs aground in a pounding surf off the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens, ending a
17,000-mile odyssey from the Far East in a nightmare of panic, chaos, death and
capture within sight of the golden door. At least 7 people are killed and 16 are
seriously injured, officials say, as scores of terrified passengers leap into
the sea and try to swim and wade ashore. A1.

A TRIP BOTH DEVIOUS AND DESPERATE

The freighter that ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula is part of a recent surge
of illegal Chinese immigrants who have made their way east to Hawaii,
California, Guatemala, Florida and now, for what is believed to be the first
time by boat, to the shores of New York. Why the immigrants chose a tortuous
route around the Horn of Africa and into the North Atlantic is not clear. A1.



WAVES OF PANIC, THEN ELATION

The air echoes with screams for help as refugees flail in the surf off Rockaway
Peninsula. "It was almost like they were filming the movie of the invasion of
Normandy," says Detective Ming Li of the Fifth Precinct, in Chinatown, who was
called in to translate for the frightened, shivering but ultimately elated
refugees. "They were coming ashore all over the place."B4.

The human cargo of the Golden Venture took a tortuous route around the globe.
B5.

The risks that Chinese boat people take to reach the United States. B5.

NEGOTIATORS NARROW BUDGET GAP

The Dinkins administration and the City Council draw closer to an agreement on
how to cut $300 million from the city's budget but remain far apart on two
crucial policy questions, including whether to start a new agency for the
homeless. B3.

JACKSON HEIGHTS CELEBRATES GAY PRIDE

Hundreds of gay and lesbian marchers course through Jackson Heights, Queens, to
demonstrate their political clout and celebrate a life style that they say has
recently been under attack in the borough and throughout New York City. B3.

METING OUT JUSTICE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD

Frustration over crime and the criminal-justice system has inspired a valuable
experiment. This summer, the Midtown Community Court is scheduled to start
adjudicating misdemeanor cases, offering an opportunity to intervene before
miscreants graduate into urban terrorism. Metro Matters. B3.

FERRARO SPEAKS AT STATEN ISLAND

Former Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro addresses the 17th annual
commencement ceremony of the College of Staten Island. B2.

A Brooklyn furniture store owner, prominent in New York's Haitian community, is
shot to death. B3.

REGION

WHITMAN URGES PARTY UNITY

Christine Todd Whitman, considered the front-runner for the Republican
nomination for Governor of New Jersey, exhorts her supporters not to slow a step
until November, and calls for Republicans to unify after Tuesday's primary and
defeat the Democratic incumbent, Jim Florio. A new poll shows that in a
head-to-head matchup with each of the three major Republican aspirants for his
job, Mr. Florio would beat all three, including Mrs. Whitman. In fact, she fares
less well in the matchups than her chief rival for the nomination, Cary Edwards,
the former state attorney general. B7.

MULTIPLE FAILURES SEEN IN BABY'S DEATH

In the aftershock of an abandoned baby's death, doctors, counselors and social
workers say a Port Washington, L.I., high school student's denial of her
pregnancy mirrors a larger failure of communities to address teen-age sexuality
squarely. "We don't tend to talk about these things," says Ann Irvin, executive
director of the Nassau County Youth Board, which finances 41 programs for needy
youngsters. "We don't talk about teen pregnancy. We don't talk about race. We
don't talk about poverty."B7.

Chronicle B2

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 8, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 499 words



D'AMATO CONSIDERS RUN FOR GOVERNOR

Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who won re-election to a third term last year, says
that he is considering running for Governor next year, and he puts the odds that
he will make the race as "at least 50-50 or better." B3.

NEW YORK CITY

CHARGES FOR CREW OF IMMIGRANT SHIP

The captain and 10 crew members of the freighter that ran aground off Queens are
charged with smuggling illegal aliens.  And the Immigration and Naturalization
Service says that the 276 Chinese immigrants who were seized after they came
ashore will remain in custody while their claims for political asylum are
considered. A1.



ONCE SMUGGLED, THE HARD PART STARTS

Six weeks ago, Hua Zhen was smuggled into the United States after a 52-day
voyage by sea eating rotten rice and a two-day trip by van and on foot from
Mexico. The trip cost $27,000. Now he is living with relatives and looking for
work, resigned to fact that it will be years before he pays off his debt or sees
his wife and son again. A1.

In Washington, the wreck of the refugee ship gives new urgency to discussions
about tightening asylum laws. B2.

STUDENT SLAYED DURING LUNCH HOUR

A 16-year-old student on a lunch hour stroll outside his Brooklyn school is
chased by two older youths, cornered between two parked cars and shot several
times at close range as he pleads for his life. Authorities say the youth, a
student at a school for troubled teen-agers in Bedford-Stuyvesant, died on the
street minutes later. A1.

CUSTODY RULING FOR MIA FARROW

Describing Woody Allen as a "self-absorbed, untrustworthy and insensitive"
father, a judge in Manhattan awards custody of his and Mia Farrow's three
children to Ms. Farrow. The judge's scathing, 33-page decision denounces Mr.
Allen for his affair with one of Ms. Farrow's daughters and says he lacks
knowledge of the most basic aspects of his children's lives. A1.

Mayor David N. Dinkins breaks off negotiations with the City Council without
reaching agreement on how to fill a $300 million budget gap. B6.

REGION

CHURCH GROUP UPHELD BY COURT
 In a case from Center Moriches, Long Island, the United States Supreme Court
rules that public school systems that open their schools to after-hours use by
community groups must also permit religious groups to use the buildings on the
same terms. To do otherwise, the Court says, violates freedom of speech. A1.

Officials of the small church that wanted to present movies about Christian
family values in the high school auditorium say they will try to do so again
this fall. A23.

NEW JERSEY PRIMARY TODAY

New Jersey's long and expensive campaign for the Republican nomination for
governor concludes today when as few as 120,000 voters can select the candidate
who will oppose Jim Florio. B5.

The Connecticut Senate gives final legislative approval to a repeal of the
state's 20-year-old no-fault automobile insurance law. B6.

Our Towns B5

Chronicle B6

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Food Stamps" shows the number of households in New York,
Connecticut and New Jersey receiving food stamps. (Source: United States
Department of Agriculture)

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 9, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

Judge Orders The Release Of Haitians

BYLINE: By MARY B. W. TABOR

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 817 words


A Federal judge ordered yesterday that all Haitians held in a detention camp at
Guantanamo Bay Naval Base be released and that the camp -- opened two years ago
in an effort to stem a flood of Haitian immigrants -- be closed immediately.

Unless the Clinton Administration files an appeal, the ruling by Judge Sterling
Johnson Jr. in the United States District Court in Brooklyn will close a painful
chapter in America's immigration history.

Though eligible for political asylum, most of the 158 Haitians at the base in
Cuba have been barred from entering the country because they are infected with
H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. They have been held for nearly 20 months
behind wire fences and in shanty homes, with inadequate medical care or legal
representation.

The fate of the Haitians has been an issue for President Clinton since he took
office. On the campaign trail, Mr. Clinton promised repeatedly to close the
camp. But since taking office, he has let stand a Bush Administration policy to
keep the H.I.V.-positive Haitians on Guantanamo.

Dilemma for Clinton

The administration said yesterday that it had not decided whether to appeal the
ruling. An appeal might appear to put the President at odds with his campaign
statements at a time when he has been chastised for waffling on campaign
pledges.

If he does not appeal, Mr. Clinton will be allowing a large number of
H.I.V.-infected immigrants into the country despite a ban on such entries. Under
current rules, people with H.I.V. applying for visas to come to the United
States are generally denied entry. But once an immigrant seeking political
asylum is on American soil, the H.I.V. exclusion does not apply. The Guantanamo
base is not American territory. President Clinton has opposed the exclusion but
did not fight Congress on the matter.

The refugees at Guantanamo were intercepted at sea as they fled from Haiti and
were deemed eligible for asylum. But unlike others who are picked up, they were
not brought to the United States for hearings.

In his 53-page decision, Judge Johnson ruled that it is illegal to detain
refugees indefinitely and that both the Bush and Clinton administrations had
unfairly applied its exclusion of H.I.V.-positive immigrants to the Haitians at
Guantanamo. And he said that the refugees were to be released "to anywhere but
Haiti," which means they will likely be brought to the United States.

"Although the defendants euphemistically refer to its Guantanamo operation as a
'humanitarian camp,' the facts disclose that it is nothing more than an H.I.V.
prison camp presenting potential public health risks to the Haitians held
there," Judge Johnson wrote. "The Haitians' plight is a tragedy of immense
proportion, and their continued detainment is totally unacceptable to this
court."

A spokesman for the Justice Department said the department would review the
opinion and the Solicitor General will decide whether to appeal in the next few
days.

Michael Ratner of the Center for Constitutional Reform said the camp could close
in a few weeks if the Federal Government does not appeal.

Wave of Protests

Since the ouster two years ago of Jean-Bertrand Aristide as Haiti's first
democratically elected president, thousands of Haitians have been allowed to
enter the United States on requests for political asylum.

But others, specifically those with H.I.V., have been detained at the camp,
built in 1991 to contain the refugees.

Since their internment, the Haitians' plight has sparked waves of protests --
including efforts by a team of lawyers who filed suit in Brooklyn in March 1992.
The suit was filed in Brooklyn, because one plaintiff, as well as thousands of
Haitian immigrants, live in the borough.

The team expanded the case to challenge the Bush Administration's policy of
repatriating Haitians without determining whether they were political or
economic refugees. But that part of the case was separated and is awaiting a
decision by the United States Supreme Court.

Judge Johnson earlier ordered the Government to release about 50 people, most of
whom had AIDS, to the United States for medical treatment.

Yesterday's decision was greeted by the lawyers, plaintiffs and Haitian groups
with joy and relief.

"We think the decision sends a wake-up call to the Clinton Administration that
it cannot blindly follow the illegal policies of the Bush Administration," said
Lucas Guttentag of the American Civil Liberties Union Immigrants Rights Project,
who aided in the lawsuit.

Jocelyn McCalla, from the National Coalition for Haitian Refugees, lauded the
decision and called the Government's policy "unlawful, unfair and absolutely
immoral."

But Mr. Ratner, another member of the legal team, said, "I don't think of this
as winning, just as ending an ordeal for people who may have spent a significant
part of their remaining lives in a prison camp."

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 1993, Thursday

CORRECTION:

An article yesterday about a judge's decision to order the immediate release of
Haitian refugees held at a detention camp in Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, misstated the
age of the camp in some copies. It was set up in November 1991. The article also
misstated the affiliation of a lawyer, Michael Ratner. He is with the Center for
Constitutional Rights.


                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 13, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Emigres in New York: Work Off the Books

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2870 words


Leida Fermin wanted at least a modest version of the American dream. She had not
left behind her family in the Dominican Republic to go on welfare or to work
forever, for a pittance, in a basement tailor shop. So last year, she lugged
four used sewing machines and endless yards of pink taffeta into her Manhattan
apartment, creating a tiny, illegal factory to make ruffled party dresses for
little girls.

"I am using my talents to support my family decently, in the only way I know
how," said Ms. Fermin, 52, a legal Dominican immigrant. "It is only basic
survival, really. I mean, what options do I have?"

From Senegalese scarf vendors to Korean manicurists, from Polish asbestos
removers to Mexican delivery boys, immigrants like Ms. Fermin are fueling a
growing underground economy in the metropolitan region. This economy is
reshaping the region's commercial life, changing the tempo of the city's streets
and providing thousands of entry-level jobs for newcomers.

But it is also forcing some immigrants into a world of seven-day workweeks,
meager pay, dangerous working conditions and no way out. When the Golden Venture
hit a sandbar off Rockaway last weekend, the freighter dumped into the Atlantic
Ocean's frigid waters hundreds of illegal immigrants destined for a miserable
life underground. Despite dreams of success, they faced the reality of working
endless $150-a-week jobs at restaurants and garment factories to pay off the
Chinese smugglers who charged them up to $30,000 for the trip.

In many ways, the growth of the immigrant underground, which many believe robs
Americans of jobs, represents a contemporary version of the era of pushcarts,
casual laborers and sweatshops like the Triangle Shirtwaist Factory. In the last
10 years, as a new wave of immigrants flooded an area weakened by a recession,
the immigrant underground was born again. With unemployment high, new
immigrants, particularly those hampered by their lack of English and illegal
status, moved underground to survive.

The underground economy, defined as all activity that is off the books and
unregulated, is burgeoning in cities with large immigrant populations like Los
Angeles, Miami and New York.

This unreported economy, however, is difficult to measure. In New York City,
Elizabeth Holtzman, the City Comptroller, estimates that it has increased by 5
percent during the last 10 years to $54 billion, or 20 percent of the city's
economy. That translates into $5 billion in unpaid taxes, about a quarter of
which is owed by criminal enterprises such as drug trafficking and money
laundering. Another sizable chunk of uncollected revenue comes from the
underreported income of American business: moonlighters, consultants and the
self-employed.

Immigrants dominate the sector that economists call the informal economy:
non-criminal but underground ventures like peddling, gypsy-cab driving and Ms.
Fermin's home factory. Whether this informal, immigrant economy is a
revitalizing or a debilitating force is a point of fierce debate.

Neighborhood Revival

Some experts believe that the immigrant underground lends vibrancy to New York
City, providing job training and reviving low-income neighborhoods like
Greenpoint and Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Others see only the tax evasion that
saps the city of revenue and the exploitation that keeps some immigrants hostage
to unscrupulous employers.

For Ms. Fermin, there is no debate, just the reality of living with the fear of
being caught as she stubbornly tends to her family in this country and back
home.

When she first arrived, Ms. Fermin found a job as a $150-a-week seamstress, off
the books. She sewed until midnight so often for such little money that she
finally quit to go on her own. That also allowed her to employ her daughter and
son-in-law, who had just arrived and did not have working papers.

"I felt very lucky that I had a skill and I didn't have to be a burden on the
government," Ms. Fermin said. "I could just carve out my own little corner in
the United States, and sew and sew until the kids here were legal and the kids I
left at home didn't need me anymore."

The Growth
Cutting Corners In Hard Times

The immigrant underground is not really underground at all. Instead, New York
City sidewalks bustle with at least 10,000 illegal vendors, hawking handbags and
panties from briefcases and folding tables, the modern-day pushcarts. On corners
in Brooklyn and Queens, laborers gather daily awaiting stints in construction
and gardening. In storefronts and basements, Chinese and Hispanic immigrants
bend over sewing machines, hot presses and workbenches as sweatshops and illegal
industrial homework, virtually nonexistent 20 years ago, proliferate anew.

Only the street vendors, the most visible representatives of the growing
underground, have provoked political controversy in New York by raising the ire
of tax-paying merchants. Most New Yorkers accepted the striking transformation
of the city almost casually, considering it a tradition in a place that prides
itself on being a pioneer discount environment.

"There's a real bargain mentality here," said Carol O'Cleireacain, the city's
Commissioner of Finance. "You're a real schnook if you pay retail for anything."


Temptation Abounds

With the highest tax rate and rents in the country, New Yorkers, newcomers and
natives, face an especially great temptation to skirt costly legal obligations
when times get tough. And they did. Between April 1989 and now, 360,000
mainstream jobs vanished from New York City's above-ground economy.

As a result, by the late 1980's, street vendors created a $300 million-a-year
industry.  From restaurants and greengroceries to car repair shops and nail
salons, cash businesses proliferated, many in only partial compliance with the
law.

Further, union-dominated industries like construction and apparel manufacturing
increasingly turned to immigrant subcontractors and workers to cut labor costs.
Illegal industrial homework -- the sewing, knitting and assembling of goods for
manufacturers in private homes -- became a $1 billion industry. Apparel
sweatshops, which numbered about 200 in the early 1970's, multiplied to 3,500 to
5,000 in the last few years, according to union statistics.

Illegal immigrants were forced underground by a new law that created sanctions
on employers who hired them. The Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986,
intended to curb the flow of illegal immigrants, had no such apparent effect. By
the conservative estimate of the Census Bureau, 400,000 illegal immigrants live
in New York City -- 5 percent of the city's population -- and 25,000 more arrive
every year.

Even many legal immigrants now have little choice but to work underground,
especially if they do not speak English or have special skills. Luciano Urena, a
husky 47-year-old Dominican, moved to Brooklyn last year when he married a
Dominican-American woman, but found that working papers were not much help.

Mr. Urena, who had little formal education and no English, had worked as a
foreman in a cigarette factory in Santo Domingo. But after much pavement
pounding in New York, he finally had to accept an off-the-books job earning
$3.25 an hour, $1 less than minimum wage, as a supermarket security guard. He
compensated by working 11-hour days, six days a week. After several months,
however, when he asked to have taxes withheld, his boss became furious.

"The next day," Mr. Urena said, "he dismissed me."

Many new immigrants expect their sojourns in the informal economy to be
temporary, a steppingstone into the American marketplace. But the recession has
cost even many established immigrants their legal jobs, setting them back years.

Dorelus Bernardo, a legal Haitian immigrant of 13 years, first lost his factory
job, then a job as a valet parker. With five children and a sick wife to
support, he sank his savings into a van and took to the streets ferrying other
immigrants around Brooklyn. But because he did not have a license -- van
licenses are in limited supply -- he was issued many costly summonses.
Eventually his van was seized and sold by the city. Nonetheless, with lines
etching deeper into his tired face, Mr. Bernardo leased another van and returned
to the roads.

Paying taxes is the least of his worries. "I'm just trying to keep my head above
water," he said. "I have so many bills, so many bills."

The Debate
Source of Strength Or Serious Flaw?

Whether the underground economy is a positive or negative force is a matter of
debate, and the story of Dalia White raises some crucial issues.

When Ms. White immigrated illegally from the Caribbean five years ago, she
quickly found work at $180 a week, off the books, as a live-in baby sitter on
the Upper West Side of Manhattan. But last year, when she had a baby of her own,
Ms. White quit. She still needed another way to earn a living without papers,
however, and when she looked around her Brooklyn neighborhood, she saw an
opportunity. She crammed her one-bedroom apartment with cribs, creating an
illegal day-care center for the children of other West Indian baby sitters who
tend affluent couples' children for a living, off the books.

Ms. White believes that, illegal or not, she twice provided a service to
American society, first to American couples who could not find affordable day
care, then to the women of her own low-income community.

But critics of the underground economy say that she would never have immigrated
if there was not a burgeoning illegal market for her low-cost labor. That
market, they say, is created by working parents who unintentionally devalue the
job of child care. If the salary and conditions were better, Americans would
gladly work in their homes, they say.

"It is pure self-deception on the part of people in the middle and upper-middle
class -- the Zoe Bairds of this world -- to think that the reason we get our
children cared for and our shirts laundered for a fraction of their real price
is because we're such a hospitable country to immigrants and no American would
accept these jobs," said Gary Burtless, an economist at the Brookings
Institution.

Many experts, however, find such reasoning unrealistic.

"Is the underground economy good?" said Mitchell Moss, director of the Urban
Research Center at New York University. "I think it's essential. It provides
entry-level work through natural networks, families and countrymen, and teaches
people to be entrepreneurial and capitalist on a small scale. Once they become a
little larger, they inevitably start participating in the mainstream economy. So
where's the harm?"

For some, the harms are tax evasion and exploitation.

"A lot of people in business and government feel the only way to revitalize the
economy is to allow the creation of a huge underground class in New York City,
available just as cheap as Mexico's," said Wing Lam, executive director of the
Chinese Staff and Workers Association.

The Consequences
Many Hardships, Silent Complaints



 Last month, the police found Chinese immigrants locked in a warehouse in New
Jersey as they worked off their debt to the smugglers who arranged their trips
to the United States. They are among the rare immigrant workers who live so
completely underground that they are invisible to American society.

In contrast, many new immigrants simply work off the books for businesses that
operate quasi-legally. They often want to pay taxes because they eventually will
need to present tax returns at their interviews for citizenship. But their
employers refuse to report the wages so that they can avoid paying their due to
the government.

"Many employers simply do not accept Social Security numbers from documented
workers because they prefer to make them part of the underground economy," said
Jennifer Gordon, a lawyer at the Central American Refugee Center in Hempstead,
L.I.

Often they force employees to receive half their wages by check and half in
cash. Some legal workers in Chinatown, where most shops are unionized, have a
hard time earning $5,400 yearly on the books, the minimum required by the union
to qualify for medical benefits. So they end up buying fake checks from their
employers, often at more than face value, to offer the required proof to the
union, workers said.

Mortgage Was Refused

Henry Yu, a legal immigrant from Hong Kong, begged his boss at a Long Island
City dry-cleaning service to put his entire salary on the books. Mr. Yu had
failed to qualify for a mortgage because his W-2 form represented only half his
yearly wages as a 67-hour-a-week presser, $10,400 when he really earned $21,000.

The boss refused and eventually dismissed Mr. Yu, replacing him with an
undocumented immigrant.

Most illegal immigrants still find eager employers, especially in their ethnic
community. Employers often do not ask to see their papers or they readily accept
the phony documents that are ubiquitous. The average cost of a fake alien
registration card, known as a green card, in Astoria, Queens, and Sunset Park,
Brooklyn, is about $200, immigrants said.

Since they have no choice but to work underground, many illegal immigrants take
it in stride. Some, like Idrissa Dodo, an immigrant from Niger, see it as a
necessary phase in their incorporation into American society.

Mr. Dodo had worked for 10 years as an electrician with an oil company based in
Gabon. He was restless. "I knew that I had, at any price, to see New York," he
said. So he took a leave and flew to the United States on a business visa,
arriving on Oct. 14, 1990.

Staying at a midtown hotel filled with Africans, he made enough contacts to get
his first job, pumping gas on Utrecht Avenue in Brooklyn at a station owned by a
Russian immigrant. He was paid cash, $5 an hour.

After several holdups at gunpoint, Mr. Dodo turned, like many other Africans, to
street peddling. But he hated the constant cat-and-mouse games with the police.
So he consulted with a banker friend and registered as an alien to pay taxes.
Now he only peddles legally, at flea markets. He has also started English
classes and applied for classes in computer repair training.

"Once you get your bearing, there are a lot of opportunities here, even if
you're illegal," he said. "But you have to be patient."

But others do not have the patience or confidence to be so sanguine and they are
simply taken advantage of.

On a recent day, Yrma Gallardo, a floor worker at the Peggy & Soo garment shop
in midtown Manhattan, layered strip after strip of hem lining on length after
length of fabric. Her face was impassive. Long black hair streamed down her
back.

An illegal immigrant from Puebla, Mexico, Ms. Gallardo was dismissed from her
previous job when she missed two days because her baby was sick. To find her
next job, Ms. Gallardo -- who does not read or write -- went from shop to shop.
She had no idea when and what she would be paid.

"I have to work where I find work, no questions asked," she said.

The 1986 immigration law appears to have made it easier for those who prey on
illegal immigrants, many of whom are immigrants themselves, advocates say. As a
result of the law, which requires employers to check the immigration status of
all employees, most bosses now know who is legal and who is not.

"Employers basically use it as a tool to suppress wages further," said Muzzafar
A. Chisti, director of the immigration project at the International Ladies
Garment Workers Union.

Deceptive Appearances

For immigrant entrepreneurs, the benefits of running a business in the informal
economy often outweigh the risks. The immigrant grocer or contractor operating
in his own ethnic community often has a network of suppliers, a captive market
of consumers, and access to cheap labor.

Some immigrant entrepreneurs, insulated from official scrutiny by their language
and ethnic community, find it temptingly easy to operate solely in cash. Many
keep their money away from banks, stashing it in their homes, circulating it
through community collectives, investing it in real estate or wiring it to their
native lands.

Tax-enforcement officials believe that many cash businesses dominated by
immigrant owners report as little as 30 percent of their transactions. And
sometimes, a vibrant immigrant shopping district, which looks to many like the
picture of economic health, looks criminal to the tax collector.

In the last 10 years, for instance, Indian immigrants have created a bustling
commercial center on 74th Street in Jackson Heights, Queens, as famous among
Indians as Canal Street is among Chinese. But tax investigators say that most of
its electronics and jewelry businesses operate largely underground. Using two
sets of books, many store owners hide about 60 percent of their total sales,
investigators say.

Still, on a Saturday, when the street is alive with shoppers perusing saris,
intricate gold jewelry and toaster ovens, munching on flat bread and sniffing
spices, the street's vitality seems to be a crystalline example of urban
development, above ground as only New York's underground economy can be.

NEXT: Street vendors.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground -- First of six articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I am using my talents to support my family decently," said
Leida Fermin, a legal immigrant. (Lee Romero/The New York Times) (pg. 1);
Conditions at work: At the Great Wall Sportswear Company in Chinatown, workers,
most from Fujian Province in China, huddled over sewing machines. Labor
inspectors checked records for under-age workers and legitimate business
practices; Looking for work: In the last 10 years, as a new wave of immigrants
flooded an area weakened by recession, the immigrant underground was born again,
stronger than ever. With high unemployment, new immigrants, hampered by a lack
of English and illegal status, moved underground to survive. In midtown
Manahattan, a man referred to a lamppost for a job. (Angel Franco/The New York
Times) (pg. 42)

Graphs: "1993 Economic Activity" shows estimated breakdown of reported and
unreported activity in New York City and the United States during the year.
(Sources: New York City Comptroller; Prof. Peter Gutmann, Baruch College) (pg.
42)

"At A Glance: Immigration Trends" shows numbers of new legal and illegal
immigrants to the U.S. and New York in 1992. Graph tracks number of legal
immigrants arriving in the New York area since 1984. Also shown are respective
numbers of immigrants to New York from the top ten countries of origin during
1992. (Sources: Immigration and Naturalization Service, U.S. Census) (pg. 42)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Asylum Reform Has to Respect Human Rights

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 245 words


To the Editor:

"The Golden Venture, Plus 100,000" (editorial, June 9), recommending "stricter
standards of proof" and expedited asylum hearings for the nearly 300 Chinese who
survived the voyage of the freighter Golden Venture misses an important point.
While the United States asylum system is indeed inundated with a backlog of more
than 250,000 cases, last year only 3,440 Chinese asylum claims were received by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Indeed, 85 percent of those Chinese
cases were approved by the agency on the ground that the individuals were
refugees with a well-founded fear of persecution.

The smuggling of Chinese or other asylum seekers can surely be a nasty business
and should be curtailed through diplomacy and law enforcement. But the human
rights of genuine refugees must not be violated in the name of reform.

There should be an early, high-level review by the new Administration to insure
that policies are both effective and humane. It is incumbent to establish an
asylum adjudication procedure that is capable of deciding claims fairly and
expeditiously to recognize genuine refugees and avoid attracting spurious
claims.

Of course, additional resources and new efficiencies will be needed. But such
measured changes will benefit all true refugees, including those among the
Golden Venture's survivors.

ARTHUR C. HELTON
Director, Refugee Project, Lawyers
Committee for Human Rights
New York, June 9, 1993

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 16, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Pursuing Tax Cheats in Land of Opportunity

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2663 words


They tailed him for several weeks, and then they laid their trap. On a tranquil
avenue in Elmhurst, Queens, two nondescript cars and a van melted into the
buzzing traffic. Wedged inside were the enforcement officers, their faces graven
with patience, their eyes trained like cameras on a basement apartment. It was
early morning, and in the air a chill lingered. A half-hour passed, an hour.

At a little past 9, the door of the apartment opened and the target marched out.
Car doors swung open and the men moved fast. As he bent over the trunk of his
Buick, an unsmiling, shocked Hange Lai, a Chinese immigrant, was set upon by the
officers. They rummaged through his car and found 109 cartons of cigarettes
stamped from Virginia. Satisfied, the enforcement officers escorted him to a
nearby police station for booking.

The officers worked for New York City's Finance Department. They were after
taxes.

Mr. Lai was charged with possession for the purpose of sale of cigarettes from
Virginia. He said he was innocent. The authorities, however, said they had
amassed evidence that he was selling the packs to delis while evading New York's
excise tax.

Mr. Lai's case is by no means rare -- many merchants are cited for evading
taxes. But he is just one of a substantial number of immigrants who the Finance
Department says are getting ahead in part by swindling the city of tax money.
Sometimes it is ignorance, sometimes it is greed and sometimes it is the two
forces cross-fertilizing.

But trying to police the city's swelling underground economy and the multiplying
number of immigrants in it is grueling work nettled with frustration. The realm
is too large, too amorphous, too slippery. Finance Department officials often
brood about how outnumbered they are. Tax cheating, they find, knows no respite.
To make a dent, officials say they need to go after major offenders and those
whose convictions will frighten others, simply because there are far too many
violators to catch.

"It's like fishing in a hatchery," said Thomas Stanton, the Finance Department's
director of enforcement. "It's a matter of catching the biggest fish and getting
the biggest bang for the buck."

A melange of law-enforcement agencies and industry organizations on the city,
state and Federal level make lurching and imperfect efforts to throttle the
underground economy. In New York City, the Department of Finance has emerged as
perhaps the most active and persistent combatant dedicated to trying to recover
the owed tax dollars. In recent years, troubled by lost revenue, it has become
more aggressive in chasing tax cheats and in putting flagrant offenders in jail.

All sorts operate in the underground economy, but many of the Finance
Department's cases involve new immigrants. "Many immigrants come over here with
the idea in mind to cheat on their taxes, because it's part of their culture,"
Mr. Stanton said. "In their countries they must cheat as a matter of survival.
We're trying to break that cycle."

Simple Tactics

City efforts to recover taxes from the underground economy were stepped up in
1986, when the Finance Department formed a brigade of auditors whose mission is
to identify businesses and individuals who fail to file income tax schedules.
Often it succeeds with the most ordinary tactics: auditors will root for names
of businesses in newspaper advertisements, the Yellow Pages, incorporation
documents or simply by copying them off the sides of trucks. They then check the
tax rolls to see if those companies have been filing tax returns. A surprising
number turn out not to be. In the last fiscal year, the unit collected $32
million from 9,900 non-filers. Officials cannot say how many of those were
immigrants.

Most of the Finance Department's work entails audits and cases that are settled
civilly without involving jail terms. For instance, it just ended an evasion
case against a group of about 10 Chinese laundries that did not report more than
half of their receipts. Increasingly, though, it has pursued criminal
investigations against evaders in the hope that meting out prison time will
deter others. Since 1981, the department has had armed investigators who can
make arrests. As Bruce Kato, the assistant commissioner of enforcement, put it,
"We want it understood that people do go to jail for evading taxes."

Gone Forever

Still, there is only so much that the department and other agencies like the
Internal Revenue Service can do. Much of the unpaid money is irretrievable. The
Finance Department estimates that it loses $5 billion a year in income-tax
revenue to the underground economy, not to mention many millions more in sales
taxes and excise taxes. Only a small fraction of that is recovered, said Carol
O'Cleireacain, the city's Commissioner of Finance, and she said a democratic
society made it difficult to get a lot more. "I think you're walking a thin line
between a system of voluntary compliance and police state tactics," she said.

Her objective, she said, is to attack the more entrenched and egregious abusers.
She understands that many impoverished immigrants need to avoid taxes simply to
get businesses on their feet and to pull together strands of life. "I think some
of it is rational economic behavior," she said. She describes this as
"unconscious tax evasion."

Secrecy pervades the underground economy, especially among immigrants, who
transact so much of their business in cash, often buying merchandise from
wholesalers for cash and then selling it to consumers for cash, making it
difficult to establish money trails. To crack open this world, investigations
often span years and require lucky tips and undercover operations during which
inlaw-enforcement officers pose as consumers, business tycoons, taxicab drivers.


Sales Taxes
Tracking The Merchandise

When you go down rackety 74th Street in Jackson Heights, Queens, you get a sense
you might be in India. Flung out along the block are sari stores, Indian grocery
stores, jewelry shops and appliance and electronic outlets. There is a vivid
street scene brimming with scintillating signs and sari-wrapped pedestrians.
Like the proprietors, most of the customers are Indians. Even back in India, the
congested strip is well known as Little India and is promoted as a tourist
attraction as heavily as the Statue of Liberty.

Several years ago, when the Finance Department hired an Indian investigator
named Dinesh Parikh, he was asked where he thought he might help. He pointed
them to 74th Street.

Mr. Parikh and another Finance Department investigator journeyed to 74th Street
and pretended to be customers. They bought a television set. They bought a VCR.
As money got tight, they settled for batteries. In each instance, they said they
were told that there would be no sales tax charged if they paid cash.

"Mostly the merchants wanted cash, and they wouldn't charge you tax," Mr. Parikh
said. "If you paid by charge, they would apologize and say, 'Sorry, I'm going to
have to charge you tax.' "

Mr. Parikh also interviewed scores of employees of various businesses, who he
said told him of routine sales-tax evasion.

Various Dodges Uncovered

Various dodges were uncovered, he said. As it happened, the department has seen
them used again and again in numerous businesses throughout the city. No sales
tax is due if merchandise is shipped out of state. However, the department said
that some businesses claimed that merchandise was shipped when it was actually
taken by the customer. Sometimes, to cover their tracks with postal receipts,
investigators said businesses mailed empty boxes to customers' homes.

According to investigators, when some of those individuals were contacted, they
confirmed that they had actually taken the merchandise with them. Officials also
said that lists of supposedly out-of-state customers kept by some businesses
were bogus.

One appliance store offered a list said to be of out-of-state customers that was
written in Hindu. Investigators said they translated it and found that the names
were curse words.

Merchants on the street are circumspect about their dealings. V. M. Gandhi, who
runs a gold coin store on 74th Street and is president of the Jackson Heights
Business Association, said, "My sense is everyone here pays sales tax." However,
he said it was not a topic he discussed with his colleagues.

8 Names Turned In

A long-time Indian merchant on 74th Street, who spoke on condition of anonymity,
admitted that for years he and others had not paid some sales tax, but he
attributed this to faulty advice. He said that when he started his business he
was told by merchants on Canal Street in Manhattan that if a customer indicated
that he was taking merchandise out of the country then no tax had to be paid.
Not until the Finance Department arrived, he said, did he and other merchants
realize that this was wrong. He said he was unaware of deliberate fraud, but
said it might have occurred among a "few greedy people."

Mr. Kato acknowledged that immigrants often did not understand the tangle of
American tax laws and might unknowingly break some of them. But he said that did
not explain the extent of evasion his department found on 74th Street.

About six months ago, the Finance Department completed its investigation and
turned over the names of eight businesses to the Queens District Attorney and
the state Attorney General for prosecution. Charges, however, have yet to be
filed.

The investigation alone, the Finance Department believes, has achieved some
good. Tax payments have accelerated lately from 74th Street businesses. Some
began paying twice as much in sales tax. But, as time has elapsed, the
department said, some of the stores seem to have reverted to their old ways.

Corporate Taxes
'Buyer' Stops Beer Wholesaler



It was late in 1989 when the Finance Department thought it would try to enter
the beer industry.

Hama-Lee Distributing was a beer wholesaler in Long Island City run by a Korean
couple, Chong Kak Lee and Sang Ok Lee. From outward appearances, it was doing
nicely. One of the largest beer distributors in New York, it had 800 customers,
most of them Korean-owned delis. Budweiser was its big brand.

The owners, however, had become rather unpopular with certain of the delis, Mr.
Kato said, because they were lending money to them at usurious rates. One day a
disgruntled person reported to the Finance Department that Hama-Lee was cheating
on its corporate taxes. He also let the department know that the Lees wanted to
move to the south and had the business up for sale.

So Bruce Kato decided to pose as a buyer. To be convincing, the department
rented a limousine to transport Mr. Kato to meetings and had another
investigator pretend to be his accountant.

In September 1989, the accountant made the initial contacts, and Mr. Kato met
with Mrs. Lee at a local McDonald's.

2 Sets of Books

In a subsequent meeting with Mrs. Lee in October 1989, to which Mr. Kato brought
along a $5,000 check to cement the deal, he got evidence of the core of the
swindle. A second set of books was trotted out, which Mrs. Lee said were the
actual records of the company. They revealed much higher revenue than the fake
books the company used to base its tax returns. Mr. Kato said that the books
indicated that only about half of the company's revenue was actually reported to
tax authorities. In the company's records, he said, delis that paid for their
beer in cash were underlined in red, and that money generally was not reported.

At the final meeting, Mr. Kato was wired, and enforcement officers from the
Manhattan District Attorney's office were listening in nearby. When Mr. Kato
said, "I think this is a buy," that was the code phrase for the investigators to
barge in and arrest Mrs. Lee. Her husband was arrested that same day at another
location.

Confronted with the tapes and two sets of books, the Lees agreed to a plea
bargain. Mr. Lee pleaded guilty to two counts of offering a false instrument for
filing and was sentenced in September 1990 to two years in prison. Mrs. Lee
pleaded guilty to one count and received probation.

The Lees also agreed over time to pay $650,000 to the city and state. A lien was
put on their apartment in Fort Lee, N.J. Hama-Lee went out of business.

Income Taxes
Taxi Sting Brings Fraud Charges

Sometimes it comes down to whom you listen to. A common way that new immigrants
descend into the underground economy, the Finance Department says, is through
the counsel of unscrupulous advisers. In recent years, the department has tried
to root out accountants who it believes teach new immigrant entrepreneurs how to
skirt the tax laws, and it has put several of them in jail.

In Federal court in Brooklyn, a 67-year-old accountant named Harold Wapnick and
three associates -- his sons, Jon and Seth Wapnick, and another employee named
Steve Wolfson -- are now on trial on charges of defrauding the I.R.S. The case
was brought by the Federal Government and grew out of a protracted City Finance
Department investigation.

Over the years, the Wapnick firm had become one of the accountants of choice
among immigrant taxi drivers. Word had seeped through the industry, prosecutors
said, that you would pay low taxes if you saw Harold Wapnick. In fact,
investigators estimate that he did the returns for 13 percent of the city's taxi
drivers, many of them from Haiti, Russia and Israel, among other countries.

In spring 1988, a Finance Department investigator named Joseph McQuillen
borrowed a cab from the Taxi and Limousine Commission and went undercover as a
taxi driver. While wired with a tape recorder, he drove the cab to Mr. Wapnick's
office in the basement of his Brooklyn home. He told Mr. Wapnick that he had
received a notice from the city requesting taxes due from 1986. He said he had
filed no tax returns. Without asking him what his income and expenses were, the
investigator testified, Mr. Wapnick's office prepared tax returns for him for
1985, 1986 and 1987.

Back-Dated Diaries

For proof at an audit of his 1986 return, Mr. McQuillen testified that Jon
Wapnick advised him to buy a diary and fabricate maintenance expenses for that
year. Mr. McQuillen said he was told at the Wapnick firm to pour coffee on the
diary, bend it or scrape it against a brick wall to make it appear authentic.

A number of immigrant taxi drivers also took the stand and told similar stories.
Among other things, they said that the Wapnick firm understated their fare
income by stating on the tax returns that mileage the drivers registered was
actually run up by others to whom they leased their cabs. Yet the drivers said
that they did not lease their cabs or tell the Wapnicks that they had. Mr.
McQuillen said he was advised by the Wapnicks to tell tax officials that he had
leased his cab to someone named Vladamir Stanislausky who must have gone back to
Russia.

Investigators said they felt that some clients knew they were breaking the law,
while others did not know what Mr. Wapnick was doing.

For their part, the defendants say they are not guilty. Harold Wapnick, who is
representing himself, said in an interview that he was convinced that his
tribulations were the result of the city's trying to exact revenge against him
because he had been such a feisty advocate for taxi drivers with the Taxi and
Limousine Commission. "They want to get me because I'm in their craw," he said.

Mr. Wapnick said he would show that the investigator's tapes don't really imply
what they seem to. If there were mistakes on any of the immigrants' tax returns,
he said, that was because clients lied to him. "When people come into my office,
it's absolute bedlam," he said. "How do I know what these guys are doing? They
come in and you can hardly understand them."

Then how did he understand them? "Body language," he said.

NEXT: A world ripe for crime.


LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground -- Fourth of six articles.

GRAPHIC: Photos: An undercover investigator passing a market on Church Avenue in
Brooklyn as agents in a van watched for a delivery of illegal cigarettes. The
next day cigarettes from North Carolina were seized in a raid. (pg. A1); New
York City's swelling underground economy is denying tax revenue to the city,
according to Finance Department officials. A city fraud investigator, right,
confiscated untaxed, illegal cigarettes from a store on McDonald Avenue in
Brooklyn. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); The Finance Department has found
many cases of tax evasion in the neighborhood known as Little India on 74th
Street in Jackson Heights, Queens. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times) (pg.
B4)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

A Window on Immigrant Crime;
In Jackson Heights, Drugs, Dirty Money and Prostitution

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2006 words


No one knows how much criminal money flows through Jackson Heights, but no one
doubts the current is steady and strong. On its busy and peaceful surface, the
Queens neighborhood is like so many others where immigrants settle into new
lives. People work hard, buy houses and shops and send money to the places they
once called home.

Most of the enterprise is legal. But Jackson Heights is also the home to Little
Colombia -- where high-level drug dealers operate and where much of their cash
is laundered through travel agencies and wire transfer services that line
Roosevelt Avenue in conspicuous numbers. By coincidence, the community is also
the city's new capital for houses of prostitution.

Because of the proliferation of these three elements -- drug dealing, money
laundering and prostitution -- Jackson Heights provides a striking glimpse into
the other side of immigrant success: immigrant crime.

Estimates vary but experts believe that a quarter of the underground economy in
New York City -- about $15 billion -- is generated by criminal activity, like
drugs or prostitution, as opposed to activity that is simply illicit, like
driving a gypsy cab or vending. Law-enforcement officials say most vendors do
not traffic in stolen goods, but simply buy wholesale.

Immigrants by no means hold the market on crime. But there could be no more
dramatic demonstration of their involvement in criminal activities than the ship
that recently went aground off Rockaway Peninsula carrying nearly 300 illegal
immigrants, smuggled like contraband halfway across the globe. Slightly less
overt, but with much broader effects, are the tons of cocaine the authorities
say are smuggled here -- by land, sea and air -- from South America, and which
immigrants in Jackson Heights play a major role in selling.

Officials believe that the amount of illegal cash that washes through Jackson
Heights could reach into the billions each year.

"The basic goal is to sell the drugs here and send the money back to the big
guys in Colombia," said Cheryl L. Pollack, head of narcotics prosecutions for
the United States Attorney's Office in Brooklyn.

Unlike some organized-crime groups -- many Italian, some Irish and some Jewish
-- whose members brought over families and became citizens even as they
exploited their neighborhoods, the cartels are highly mobile, experts say. The
cartel members usually come alone from Colombia, stay only a few years and ship
profits home. As a consequence, economists see little economic benefit locally.

Low-Grade Activity

Saskia Sassen, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University who has
studied the underground economy, said that at best the drug trade adds a
low-grade buzz to Jackson Heights's already vital legitimate economic base: drug
dealers rent beepers, cellular phones and apartments to stash drugs and cash.

And through money laundering, the dealers also help prop up many of the 200 or
so travel agencies and wire transfer places there. But they do not seem to be
buying property or investing heavily in legitimate businesses, experts say.

"The capital we are talking about is a capital that does not circulate in the
local economy," Professor Sassen said.

The economic impact of the 60 brothels on Jackson Avenue is even less clear,
because the quantity of money is so much smaller. The brothels, which open at
night in apartments along Roosevelt Avenue, seem more a neighborhood nuisance
and a testament to their workers' desperation to survive however they can.

Patterns of Crime
Specialties Divided By Nationality

Community advocates and law-enforcement officials take pains to distinguish the
cartel representatives from the 30,000 legitimate Colombians in Jackson Heights
and Elmhurst, its sister community to the south.

"Immigrant connotes to me that they come here to live and immigrate to the
United States to make a better life," said Thomas F. Sheehan, a Drug Enforcement
Administration Special Agent who has both lived and worked in Jackson Heights.
"I don't think that is the case for a great majority of the drug dealers."

Law-enforcement officials say that criminality among the city's more recent
immigrants tends to fall into patterns. Poor women from South America like Diana
often work as prostitutes, as do some Korean women. Dominicans move cocaine to
the streets. Chinese, and to a lesser extent Sicilians, rule the heroin trade.
Nigerians are known as expert smugglers. Some Korean grocers are loan sharks.
The Russian mob runs bureaucracy schemes, from Medicare fraud to evading taxes
on oil distribution.

Chinese also run gambling houses, and as the city witnessed in the grounding of
the Golden Venture, smuggle other Chinese here for a price. The practice
provides a telling example of how crime expands within groups: the refugees come
illegally, at prices ranging up to $35,000 or more, in trips arranged by Chinese
crime groups. Some refugees join heroin-smuggling operations to work off their
debt, an Immigration and Nationalization Service official said.

There are also cases in which Chinese gangs -- already deep into extortion,
robbery and drugs -- kidnap indebted refugees to ransom them for transportation
costs. The official said there have even been cases in which gangs have shown up
at Kennedy International Airport to pick up refugees, beating out the
organized-crime group that actually arranged for the passage.

Devastation at the Fringes

Even if crime has given a marginal economic boost to Jackson Heights, its impact
on other neighborhoods is undeniably devastating. Ansley Hamid, an associate
professor at John Jay College, said that cocaine, more than any other drug,
sucks the poorest neighborhoods dry. Users impoverish places like the South
Bronx and East New York by spending what little cash they have on drugs and
stealing anything else of value: cars, televisions, jewelry.

"With cocaine the money flows upward and out of the community," Professor Hamid
said. The average street seller, he said, "gets arrested quickly. He becomes a
user. His rivals shoot him down."

Booming Sex Trade
Desperate Women, Lucrative Choices

While the Cali cartel dealers are shipping fortunes home and living at least a
comfortable middle-class existence in this most middle class of immigrant
neighborhoods, the prostitutes of Jackson Heights offer a far more painful
picture of immigrant crime.

Diana, 33, considers herself more victim than criminal. She earns $25 for every
15 minutes with a man, plus tips. But the brothel keeps 40 percent of her
earnings. She came to Queens illegally a year ago, washing floors for $150 a
week, not enough to support herself and her three children in Cali. Now she
measures business by how many Newport menthols she smokes each night.

"Every customer is one cigarette," she said in Spanish. "Sometimes it's 20 to 30
customers a night and that's 20 to 30 cigarettes." She chain-smoked as she
spoke, but by her own rules, should have lit up only three times that night.

Over the last few years, Roosevelt Avenue -- a commercial strip thriving with
Hispanic restaurants, pushcarts and newsstands that sell old copies of Colombian
papers -- has blossomed with brothels filled with immigrant women like Diana.

Local authorities, including in the Queens District Attorney's office and the
police, have closed 30 brothels over the last year. But the brothels --
converted apartments where landlords charge high rents -- keep appearing, run
mostly by South American immigrants along with a few Koreans.

The brothel where Diana works, she stood in one of eight cubicles slapped
together with wallboard and plaster, and described how she has been a prostitute
for only three months and earns $300 or more a night, enough to pay tuition for
her children in Colombia and to hire a live-in maid to care for them. Like most
of the other eight women in the house -- from Colombia, Venezuela and Peru --
she wants to go home. She will work only for one year and return.

"It's a very difficult country for an immigrant," she said, behind a heavy mask
of makeup. "It's not the mecca that everyone says to make money easily."

The house's madam, a savvy 23-year-old from Uruguay named Topacio, would agree
about the hardship. But she sees in America almost unbelievable opportunities to
make money, legally or not. The owner of three brothels, she has transformed the
degradation of prostitution into a small personal fortune.

She recalled her decision to become a prostitute. "I said, 'I can't do this,' "
she remembers saying to another prostitute. "But she said, 'You have nothing to
lose. You will cry the first day. You won't like it. The second day you will cry
more. The third day you will adapt to the first clients. Then the fourth day you
will see all the money you made and forget completely your problems.'

On her fourth day, Topacio saw the money. "It was decided," she said.

Freeing the Cash
Laundering By Computer

The storefronts looked innocent enough until someone counted them. Then
law-enforcement officials realized that the travel agencies, wire transfer
centers and change houses were actually the most visible sign of the drug trade.
Officials say the stores launder hundreds of millions of dollars each year,
mostly sending cash electronically to South America, in addition to making many
legal transfers for immigrants who are sending hard-earned money back home.

There are so many of these businesses, and their trade is so obvious, that a
casual cynicism about the business has settled into the neighborhood, both on
the street and within the businesses themselves, which are decorated with neon
signs and huge posters advertising cheap fares to South America.

"Some offices, they do it, but the F.B.I. is on top of things," Juan Vasquez,
the manager of one such business, Fax Beepers Communications, offered almost
off-handedly. "They come to visit." He said his business handled only legal
transactions.

The Drug Enforcement Administration estimates that 90 percent of its
money-laundering investigations in the New York area trace back to Jackson
Heights. And over the last few years, several of the companies have been tied
directly to investigations into the cartels, including one huge company, Delgado
Travel, that paid a $1 million fine in 1991 but is still boomingly in business.

"Non-bank financial institutions are the new frontier in the money-laundering
struggle," said Charles A. Intriago, a Miami lawyer who edits a national
newsletter on money laundering. "We are talking billions."

Too Heavy to Handle

During the 1980's, as the cocaine trade rose and banks came under increasing
Federal scrutiny, these businesses suddenly began to proliferate. According to
law-enforcement officials, the industry works like this:

Drug dealing is a bulky enterprise because it generates vast amounts of cash ($1
million in $20 bills, for example, weighs 114 pounds; for $5 bills, the price of
a mid-sized vial of crack, multiply that by four). So high-level dealers take
money to, say, a travel agency to wire money abroad for an 8 percent fee.

Federal law requires that all transactions over $10,000 be reported. But in
Jackson Heights, people get around the rules: there is, for example, a practice
called "smurfing," breaking large amounts into transactions of less than
$10,000. (The name was coined a decade ago by a Justice Department lawyer who
imagined the blue cartoon figures magically breaking down piles of cash.) And
often transactions of all sizes are not reported, officials say, because the
laws lack teeth and regulators are not capable of overseeing every company that
wires money overseas.

But is much of the money coming from drug dealers?

"The suspicion is there," said Edward D. Saslow, an Assistant Attorney General
who heads the state's Crime Proceeds Task Force. "But it's not proof beyond a
reasonable doubt at this moment in our legal history."

NEXT: One family's success.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground -- Fifth of six articles.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Drug Enforcement Administration estimates that 90 percent of
its money-laundering investigations in the New York area trace back to Jackson
Heights, Queens. And in recent years, some of the neighborhood's many travel
agencies and wire transfer centers have been tied to cartel investigations,
including Delgado Travel, which paid a $1 million fine in 1991. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times) (pg. B8)

Map of Queens showing location of Jackson Heights. (pg. B8)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 19, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Many Mariel Cubans Remain in U.S. Detention

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words


To the Editor:

I am a Cuban-American, who came to the United States seeking freedom in the 1980
Mariel boatlift. I am incarcerated in the Federal Correctional Facility at
Fairton, N.J.

I resided in New York City for almost 10 years. During my stay in New York City
I remained gainfully employed, although I fell into drug dependency.
Consequently, I sold small amounts of drugs, for which I was arrested and
received a nine-month jail term in 1989. My jail term terminated in April 1990.

I was held on a warrant from the Immigration and Naturalization Service and have
been in custody ever since. I cannot attempt to justify my selling drugs. All I
can say is that I paid my debt, and I am sincerely sorry for my actions,
especially the shame and pain I caused my family.

I have been held without bail for over three years. Thousands of other
Cuban-Americans are in the same boat. We do not know whether we will be deported
or released. The Immigration and Naturalization Service bureaucracy moves
slowly. Many have been held for years. I have witnessed firsthand the abuse and
discrimination of the so-called Marielitos. Some of the emotional and
psychological scars can never be repaired. The uncertainty is intolerable, and
many have tried and succeeded in terminating their own lives.

Taxpayers spend tens of millions to keep the Cubans incarcerated each year. I
feel that I am speaking for many Cuban-Americans when I state I would rather try
my luck in Cuba than remain indefinitely incarcerated in the United States. The
irony is that I may have to leave the United States to seek freedom in Cuba.

The majority of us have established roots in America. We have wives, children
and friends. Our families rely on us, not only for financial, but also emotional
reasons. Our pride and manhood are being stripped, knowing we cannot assist our
families in need. Most of us wish to become productive members of American
society. We do not wish to remain a burden on our adopted homeland.

GUILLERMO FELLOVE-ROBERTS
Fairton, N.J., June 9. 1993

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

The Feel of Africa Is Transplanted to Staten Island

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1124 words


When Anthony Idow hankers for a native Nigerian dish or fresh news from his
homeland, he simply strolls over to one of the blazing grills dotting his
neighborhood, where men and women in flowing tribal gowns, shirts and
headdresses gather against a backdrop of leafy streets and cloistered
suburban-style homes on Staten Island.

"This is the way we lead our life back home," Mr. Idow, 30, explained as he
stood on Targee Street, a commercial strip bustling with West African street
vendors and music. "We get together after work for peaceful conversations and
drinks. This is just like home to us."

For years, Staten Island has been New York City's most insular borough, a
largely middle-class island enclave that has not attracted the vast influx of
immigrants that has indelibly changed neighborhoods elsewhere in the city.

In recent years, though, immigrants from West Africa have carved a rich ethnic
niche in the borough's landscape, bringing new merchants, vendors, a church and
other institutions that cater to their tastes and needs. They have arrived at a
time when other immigrants, like Indians and Filipinos, have also settled on the
island.

Reminiscent of Liberia

On the streets and sidewalks of Clifton, a rolling neighborhood on the northeast
side of the island, large numbers of immigrants from Liberia, Nigeria and other
West African nations have built an informal -- and sometimes illicit --
commercial and cultural hub with little notice outside their own neighborhood.

Last month, though, the community drew unwanted attention after two gunmen
walked into an unlicensed social club for Liberians and opened fire with
semiautomatic weapons, injuring eight patrons. The police have not determined a
motive, although they say that drug trafficking and other crime have increased
in the area in recent years.

While the shooting reminded the immigrants in the neighborhood that they were
not immune to crime and violence, many say they have done their best to create a
more tranquil life on Staten Island, following earlier settlers from their
countries who were lured by the neighborhood's small-town air.

Along Targee Street and its asphalt tributaries, these immigrants, including
professionals and students, bustle amid the plumes of the outdoor grills, beckon
with a shrill call a brown van delivering fresh fish and swarm vendors selling
bags of dried crawfish, exotic vegetables and spices and other goods from back
home.

A Helping Hand Awaits

"We have brought our own culture to this neighborhood, which is great," said
Oretha Bestman, a 24-year-old woman from Liberia who assembles neighborhood
children, American and West African, at a nearby schoolyard to teach them
African dances and songs. "We can find African food, clothes. Anything they sell
back home, we find here."

For longtime residents of Clifton, the arrival of these immigrants has caused
some discord. Some older residents complain that the newcomers have brought
congestion, noise, litter and crime, arising from unlicensed sidewalk
businesses, aggressive gypsy cab drivers and groups that loiter on street
corners.

"They're bringing their culture here and causing problems, like selling food on
the street," said George Doyle, a vice chairman for Community Board 1.

No one can say for sure how many West Africans live in the area. City planners
and others say that hundreds may have moved there in recent years but do not
appear on census records because they arrived after the 1990 census was taken,
under student visas or without proper documentation.

Whatever the exact numbers, many immigrants have come to regard their
neighborhood as a haven, where newcomers are taken in by family and friends who
arrived before. Some are refugees, including professors, ministers and
engineers, who fled the political and social turmoil of nations like Liberia.
Others are students who say they are here to further their education.

Links With the Homeland

"Some of them are separated from their families, so they develop very close
relationships here," said the Rev. George Samuels, a minister at the Faith
Christian Center at 20 Park Hill Avenue, where immigrants from West Africa make
up half of the congregation of about 250 worshipers.  "They really come to see
each other as brothers."

Inside the unlicensed Liberian social club at 575 Targee Street where the
shooting occurred on May 18, many immigrants had regularly gathered over food
and drinks to discuss problems they had adjusting to their new life in America
as well as to question newcomers who brought fresh news from back home.

"It was a very peaceful place for us," said Peter Z. Kemokai, a 47-year-old man
from Liberia. "That club was very important."

Likewise, vendors like George Curtis, 33, who hopes to return to Liberia one day
to start an import and export business, serve as a link to West Africa for many
in the community. Mr. Curtis, enterprising and charismatic, says he runs an
unlicensed but popular business selling exotic vegetables and other foods
shipped to him from abroad.

'Just Waiting for Peace'

"I provide an important service," he said the other day as he sat on a kitchen
chair on a shaded sidewalk and flirted with some female patrons. "I have them
eating their native food."

While some immigrants say they have come to America for good, others say they
long to return to their homeland. Many express frustration and dismay over the
lack of jobs, the crime and what they see as an anti-immigrant sentiment here.

"This is still not home for many of us," said the Rev. Windell Hutchinson, a
minister from Liberia whose church serves about 200 Liberians and other West
Africans on Staten Island. "Many of us are just waiting for peace to be restored
back home. This is just a temporary shelter."

Mr. Idow, the Nigerian man who has found solace in the neighborhood's sidewalk
gatherings, agrees. He said he came to this country for training as a commercial
pilot but things never worked out.

Bearing a private aviator's license that he earned in Nigeria, he arrived four
years ago and moved into an apartment with a Nigerian friend who had moved to
Clifton several months earlier with the same goal.

In the end, neither could afford to pay for commercial aviation lessons, he
said. Mr. Idow, who now drives a livery cab, said he was frustrated over his
lack of success but would like to return to his country one day with something
to show for his stay in America.

"All I do is work to pay my rent," he lamented. "We have many people from our
country living like this. We have ministers driving cabs here. We have people
with multiple degrees working as orderlies in nursing homes. We are trying to
survive."

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Map of Staten Island

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 20, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 584 words



International 3-15

CHINA'S POINT OF DEPARTURE


The wreck of a ship loaded with illegal immigrants has spotlighted the role of
the Chinese province of Fujian as the prime source of the Chinese boat people
seeking a new life in the United States.  1

ASSESSING CHANGE IN JAPAN

New analysis: American and Japanese officials are struggling with the question
of whether the uneasy relations between the two nations will be better or worse
off if Japan's aging leaders finally lose power.  1

SOUTH AFRICAN LEADER CAMPAIGNS

President F. W. de Klerk, fearing a loss of support from South African whites,
launched his campaign for the votes of blacks, saying it symbolized his party's
rebirth as a rainbow coalition.  10

BOSNIA FIGHTING WANING

Fighting was reported waning in some parts of Bosnia despite many allegations of
violations of a cease-fire, especially around the U.N.-declared safe area of
Gorazde.  9

REFUGEE AGENCY IS OVERWHELMED

Faced with a serious shortage of money, the United Nations official charged with
caring for 18.9 million refugees plans to ask the richest countries whether they
are willing to continue paying the bill.  3

National 16-28

BILLIONS IN H.U.D. DEFAULTS LOOM

The Department of Housing and Urban Development expects to lose as much as $11.9
billion from defaults by apartment building owners. Taxpayers will bear most of
the cost.  1

LARGEST SCHOOLS GIFT ANNOUNCED

Walter Annenberg, who made his fortune from TV Guide magazine, announced $365
million in cash grants to three universities and one New Jersey preparatory
school.  1

HAILING THE T.V. OF TOMORROW

A New York Times/CBS News Poll indicates that most Americans are willing to pay
for the privilege of controlling what is on their screens with interactive
television.  1

MIAMI GRAPPLES OVER RACE

Resolving tensions between Miami's Cuban population, a majority in Dade County,
and the city's non-Hispanic blacks could provide important lessons for the
nation.  1

SHRIMPERS TRY TO SAVE JOBS

Shrimpers and fishermen off the coast of Texas are caught between Government
limits on their daily catch and companies that are fouling the fishing waters.
16

A SMOKE-FREE PRISON LIFE

Georgia prison officials are pushing for smoke-free prisons, and the number of
prisoners who smoke is steadily declining.  16

Metro 29-40

NEW EVIDENCE OF FALSE REPORTS

Auditors examining books kept by Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield have found
that losses on the company's poor-risk accounts were exaggerated by $51 million
in reports filed with state regulators.  1

MOVE TO CURB INCENTIVES FOR JOBS

Concerned that some cities and counties in New York have gone too far to try to
attract new jobs, the State Legislature is considering curtailing some of the
incentives that could be offered to businesses.  29

DECISION MIRRORS ABORTION FIGHT

The story of Marisol Rodriguez, persuaded last year by Operation Rescue not to
terminate her pregnancy, symbolizes the arguments at the heart of the country's
wrenching abortion debate.  29

LOOKING TO THE OLD AND THE NEW

As Herman Badillo steps out of history to re-enter politics, he finds himself
trying to appeal to different worlds -- the old and the new, the Hispanic and
non-Hispanic, the Democratic and the Republican.  29

Obituaries 38

William Golding, Nobel Prize-winning author.

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT;
Rights Groups Fault Decision, As Do Haitians

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 744 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 21


Calling the ruling "shameful" and "abhorrent," human rights advocates and
Haitians living here responded with consternation today to the Supreme Court's
endorsement of the Clinton Administration's policy of forcing Haitian refugees
intercepted in international waters to return to their homeland.

"This is a crime," said Max Pierre, an electronics engineer who came to Miami
from Haiti as an illegal immigrant but is now an American citizen. "How can you
send people back to a place where whole families are being killed and there is
no justice? This goes against the democratic spirit of the American people."

Steven Forester, a lawyer at the Haitian Refugee Center here, said he found it
difficult to comprehend how the Court could approve a policy to hand Haitians
seeking political asylum over to "their military persecutors, who we do not
recognize as a Government and who the State Department condemns for their
horrendous human rights practices."

He echoed other human rights advocates when he said that "the precedent set is
an embarrassing one" that has broader ramifications for American foreign policy.


Seeing Worldwide Trend

Harold Koh, the law professor at Yale University who argued the case before the
Supreme Court, said: "The real question is when Clinton is going to start
exercising the kind of moral authority on human rights he promised during the
campaign. He hasn't done it in Bosnia or China, and he hasn't done it in Haiti."

Kenneth Roth, acting executive director of Human Rights Watch, said he viewed
the decision as part of a greater "worldwide trend to cut back on refugee
protections in the face of unprecedented flows." He said he feared the ruling
would encourage other governments from Western Europe to East Asia to take
similar actions against those fleeing political persecution.

Nearly 40,000 Haitians have fled their country since Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the
democratically elected President, was overthrown in a military coup 21 months
ago. More than 10,700 refugees have been allowed to enter the United States to
pursue political asylum claims, but thousands of others have had their petitions
denied or have been told they can pursue their cases only at the United States
Embassy in Haiti.

Little Immediate Effect

In practical terms, the Supreme Court's ruling does not have much immediate
effect. Since May 1992, when the Bush Administration began the current policy,
the Coast Guard has been patrolling off Haiti to stop rickety wooden boats
crammed with people intent on sailing to Florida.

President Clinton's decision to continue the Bush Administration's policy was
announced as he took office, contradicting promises he had made in the campaign.
It immediately ended a surge of boats fleeing Haiti that began after his
election. A vessel with 87 people aboard was intercepted off the Haitian coast
last week, but it was the first one in nearly five months, and the passengers
were immediately returned to Port-au-Prince.

Francois Benoit, the foreign minister in Haiti's current army-backed Government
said the decision had "only confirmed the discriminatory practices" of the
United States. Asked what he meant, he added, "You only have to compare the
treatment between Haitians and Cubans."

Among the more than 100,000 Haitians who live in South Florida, today's Court
ruling immediately sparked demands that the United States do more to topple the
military dictatorship in power. Many Haitians here have long contended that
Washington has devoted too much energy to stopping refugees and not enough to
resolving the political situation that has forced people to flee.

Haitians Want More Action

"If this is the way it is going to be, then I want my President back in power,"
said Saintil St. Cyr, a taxi driver here. "If Aristide can return, then nobody
will be coming to the United States because everyone will be staying at home."

The United Nations Security Council last week imposed an embargo on shipments of
oil and arms to Haiti, a step that Washington has hinted it might be willing to
enforce with a naval blockade. But many Haitians here remain critical of such
efforts to restore Mr. Aristide to office and say the Clinton Administration
needs to use more muscle, including military force if necessary.

"The community wants more action," said Rolande Dorancy, director of the Haitian
Refugee Center here. "Negotiating with the devil is not going to work."

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steven Forester, right, a lawyer at the Haitian Refugee Center
in Miami, said he found it difficult to comprehend how the Court could approve a
policy to hand Haitians seeking political asylum over to "their military
persecutors." Rolande Dorancy, left, the center's director, said, "The community
wants more action. Negotiating with the devil is not going to work." (Associated
Press)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT;
Excerpts From High Court Decision Upholding Policy on Haitian Refugees

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1937 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21


Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court's decision today upholding the
Bush and Clinton Administrations' policy of intercepting Haitian refugees at sea
and returning them to Haiti. The vote in Sale v. Haitian Centers Council was 8
to 1. Justice John Paul Stevens wrote the majority opinion, and Justice Harry A.
Blackmun wrote the dissent.

FROM THE DECISION
By Justice Stevens

The President has directed the Coast Guard to intercept vessels illegally
transporting passengers from Haiti to the United States and to return those
passengers to Haiti without first determining whether they may qualify as
refugees. The question presented in this case is whether such forced
repatriation, "authorized to be undertaken only beyond the territorial sea of
the United States," violates Sections 243(h)(1) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act of 1952 (I.N.A. or Act). We hold that neither Sections 243(h)
nor Article 33 of the United Nations Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees
applies to action taken by the Coast Guard on the high seas.

                                    .  .  .

Aliens residing illegally in the United States are subject to deportation after
a formal hearing. Aliens arriving at the border, or those who are temporarily
paroled into the country, are subject to an exclusion hearing, the less formal
process by which they, too, may eventually be removed from the United States. In
either a deportation or exclusion proceeding the alien may seek asylum as a
political refugee for whom removal to a particular country may threaten his life
or freedom. Requests that the Attorney General grant asylum or withhold
deportation to a particular country are typically, but not necessarily, advanced
as parallel claims in either a deportation or an exclusion proceeding.

When an alien proves that he is a "refugee," the Attorney General has discretion
to grant him asylum pursuant to Sections 208 of the Act. If the proof shows that
it is more likely than not that the alien's life or freedom would be threatened
in a particular country because of his political or religious beliefs, under
Sections 243(h) the Attorney General must not send him to that country. The
I.N.A. offers these statutory protections only to aliens who reside in or have
arrived at the border of the United States. For 12 years, in one form or
another, the interdiction program challenged here has prevented Haitians such as
respondents from reaching our shores and invoking those protections.

                                    .  .  .

Respondents' expansive interpretation of the word "return" raises another
problem: It would make the word "deport" redundant. If "return" referred solely
to the destination to which the alien is to be removed, it alone would have been
sufficient to encompass aliens involved in both deportation and exclusion
proceedings. And if Congress had meant to refer to all aliens who might be sent
back to potential oppressors, regardless of their location, the word "deport"
would have been unnecessary.

By using both words, the statute implies an exclusively territorial application,
in the context of both kinds of domestic immigration proceedings. . . .

As enacted in 1952, Sections 243(h) authorized the Attorney General to withhold
deportation of aliens "within the United States." Six years later we considered
the question whether it applied to an alien who had been paroled into the
country while her admissibility was being determined. We held that even though
she was physically present within our borders, she was not "within the United
States" as those words were used in Sections 243(h). (Leng May Ma v. Barber,
1958.) We explained the important distinction between "deportation" or
"expulsion," on the one hand, and "exclusion" on the other.

It is important to note at the outset that our immigration laws have long made a
distinction between those aliens who have come to our shores seeking admission,
such as petitioner, and those who are within the United States after an entry,
irrespective of its legality. In the latter instance the Court has recognized
additional rights and privileges not extended to those in the former category
who are merely "on the threshold of initial entry. . . ."

Those who had been admitted (or found their way in) but sought to avoid
"expulsion" had the added benefit of "deportation proceedings"; they were both
within United States territory and "within the United States." Although the
phrase "within the United States" presumed the alien's actual presence in the
United States, it had more to do with an alien's legal status than with his
location.

The 1980 amendment erased the long-maintained distinction between deportable and
excludable aliens for purposes of Sections 243(h). By adding the word "return"
and removing the words "within the United States" from Sections 243(h), Congress
extended the statute's protection to both types of aliens, but it did nothing to
change the presumption that both types of aliens would continue to be found only
within United States territory. The removal of the phrase "within the United
States" cured the most obvious drawback of Sections 243(h): As interpreted in
Leng May Ma, its protection was available only to aliens subject to deportation
proceedings.

                                    .  .  .

Like the text and the history of Sections 243(h), the text and negotiating
history of Article 33 of the United Nations Convention are both completely
silent with respect to the Article's possible application to actions taken by a
country outside its own borders. Respondents argue that the Protocol's broad
remedial goals require that a nation be prevented from repatriating refugees to
their potential oppressors whether or not the refugees are within that nation's
borders. In spite of the moral weight of that argument, both the text and
negotiating history of Article 33 affirmatively indicate that it was not
intended to have extraterritorial effect.

                                    .  .  .

Article 33.1 uses the words "expel or return ('refouler')" as an obvious
parallel to the words "deport or return" in Sections 243(h)(1). There is no
dispute that "expel" has the same meaning as "deport"; it refers to the
deportation or expulsion of an alien who is already present in the host country.
The dual reference identified and explained in our opinion in Leng May Ma v.
Barber suggests that the term "return ('refouler')" refers to the exclusion of
aliens who are merely "on the threshold of initial entry."

This suggestion that "return" has a legal meaning narrower than its common
meaning is reinforced by the parenthetical reference to "refouler," a French
word that is not an exact synonym for the English word "return." Indeed, neither
of two respected English-French dictionaries mentions "refouler" as one of many
possible French translations of "return. . . ." To the extent that they are
relevant, these translations imply that "return" means a defensive act of
resistance or exclusion at a border rather than an act of transporting someone
to a particular destination. In the context of the Convention, to "return" means
to "repulse" rather than to "reinstate."

                                    .  .  .

The drafters of the Convention and the parties to the Protocol like the drafters
of Sections 243(h) may not have contemplated that any nation would gather
fleeing refugees and return them to the one country they had desperately sought
to escape; such actions may even violate the spirit of Article 33. But a treaty
cannot impose uncontemplated extraterritorial obligations on those who ratify it
through no more than its general humanitarian intent. Because the text of
Article 33 cannot reasonably be read to say anything at all about a nation's
actions toward aliens outside its own territory, it does not prohibit such
actions.

                                    .  .  .

Respondents contend that the dangers faced by Haitians who are unwillingly
repatriated demonstrate that the judgment of the Court of Appeals fulfilled the
central purpose of the Convention and the Refugee Act of 1980. While we must, of
course, be guided by the high purpose of both the treaty and the statute, we are
not persuaded that either one places any limit on the President's authority to
repatriate aliens interdicted beyond the territorial seas of the United States.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Blackmun

When, in 1968, the United States acceded to the United Nations Protocol Relating
to the Status of Refugees, it pledged not to "return ('refouler') a refugee in
any manner whatsoever" to a place where he would face political persecution. In
1980, Congress amended our immigration law to reflect the Protocol's directives
(Refugee Act of 1980). Today's majority nevertheless decides that the forced
repatriation of the Haitian refugees is perfectly legal, because the word
"return" does not mean return, because the opposite of "within the United
States" is not outside the United States, and because the official charged with
controlling immigration has no role in enforcing an order to control
immigration,

I believe that the duty of nonreturn expressed in both the Protocol and the
statute is clear. The majority finds it "extraordinary" that Congress would have
intended the ban on returning "any alien" to apply to aliens at sea. That
Congress would have meant what it said is not remarkable. What is extraordinary
in this case is that the Executive, in disregard of the law, would take to the
seas to intercept fleeing refugees and force them back to their persecutors and
that the Court would strain to sanction that conduct.

                                    .  .  .

Comparison with the pre-1980 version of Sections 243(h) confirms that the
statute means what it says. Before 1980, Sections 243(h) provided:

"The Attorney General is authorized to withhold deportation of any alien . . .
within the United States to any country in which in his opinion the alien would
be subject to persecution on account of race, religion or political opinion and
for such period of time as he deems to be necessary for such reason." The
Refugee Act of 1980 explicitly amended this provision in three critical
respects. Congress (1) deleted the words "within the United States"; (2) barred
the Government from "return(ing)," as well as "deport(ing)," alien refugees; and
(3) made the prohibition against return mandatory, thereby eliminating the
discretion of the Attorney General over such decisions.

The import of these changes is clear. Whether "within the United States" or not,
a refugee may not be returned to his persecutors. To read into Sections 243(h)'s
mandate a territorial restriction is to restore the very language that Congress
removed. . . .

The Convention that the Refugee Act embodies was enacted largely in response to
the experience of Jewish refugees in Europe during the period of World War II.
The tragic consequences of the world's indifference at that time are well known.
The resulting ban on refoulement, as broad as the humanitarian purpose that
inspired it, is easily applicable here, the Court's protestations of impotence
and regret notwithstanding.

The refugees attempting to escape from Haiti do not claim a right of admission
to this country. They do not even argue that the Government has no right to
intercept their boats. They demand only that the United States, land of refugees
and guardian of freedom, cease forcibly driving them back to detention, abuse
and death. That is a modest plea, vindicated by the Treaty and the statute. We
should not close our ears to it.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An uncooperative Haitian being carried off a Coast Guard cutter
last June in Port-au-Prince. The Supreme Court yesterday upheld the nation's
policy of intercepting fleeing Haitians at sea and returning them to Haiti
without hearings. (Associated Press)

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 22, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

THE SUPREME COURT;
HIGH COURT BACKS POLICY OF HALTING HAITIAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21


The Supreme Court today upheld the Bush and Clinton Administrations' policy of
intercepting fleeing Haitians at sea and returning them to Haiti without asylum
hearings.

The 8-to-1 decision, written by Justice John Paul Stevens with a dissent by
Justice Harry A. Blackmun, concluded that the policy was permitted under Federal
immigration law and an international treaty to which the United States is a
party.

The Federal appeals court in New York ruled last year that the interdiction
policy violated both the law and the treaty. But, because the Justices granted a
stay, the lower court's decision never took effect.

'Tragedy at Sea' Predicted

President Clinton denounced the interdictions as "cruel" and illegal in the
Presidential campaign last year. But he kept the policy in place while trying
unsuccessfully to negotiate the return of Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's
democratically elected President whose overthrow in a military coup in 1991 led
to the refugee crisis.

The Clinton Administration defended the policy before the Supreme Court in March
as necessary to avert what it said would be a "humanitarian tragedy at sea"
resulting from tens of thousands of Haitians setting sail in unseaworthy boats
in the expectation of gaining entry to the United States.

In the three weeks before President George Bush started the new policy in May
1992, the Coast Guard picked up 10,497 Haitians heading for the United States in
127 boats.

Narrow Legal Questions

Under the previous practice, the Haitians were interviewed aboard ship and would
not be returned if they had a potentially valid claim to refugee status. Once
that changed and repatriation became automatic, the human flood dropped to a
trickle.

While the case before the Court touched on issues of profound humanitarian
concern, the legal questions were narrow. The principal question was whether
aliens on the high seas are entitled to the protection accorded to refugees
under either the Immigration and Nationality Act or the United Nations Protocol
Relating to the Status of Refugees. The Court said the answer in both instances
was no. [Excerpts, page A18.]

The eight-member majority appeared to take pains that it was not passing
judgment on the "wisdom" of the policy. Justice Stevens even suggested that the
reason neither Federal law nor the United Nations treaty applied beyond the
borders of the United States was that the drafters of the law and the treaty
"may not have contemplated that any nation would gather fleeing refugees and
return them to the one country they had desperately sought to escape."

While "such actions may even violate the spirit" of the treaty, he said, they
nonetheless cannot be said to violate the terms of a treaty that "cannot
reasonably be read to say anything at all about a nation's actions toward aliens
outside its own territory."

As for the Federal law, Justice Stevens said, there was "not a scintilla of
evidence" that Congress meant the protection for refugees to extend beyond the
nation's borders.

The heart of the legal argument put forward on the Haitians' behalf by a group
of civil rights lawyers was that the United Nations treaty did apply to refugees
on the high seas and that Congress had changed domestic immigration law
accordingly after the United States agreed to the treaty in 1968.

Law Amended in 1980

As enacted in 1952, the relevant provision of the Immigration and Nationality
Act gave the Attorney General the authority to stop proceedings to deport "any
alien within the United States" to a country where "the alien would be subject
to persecution on account of race, religion or political opinion."

The Refugee Act of 1980 amended that provision to remove the phrase "within the
United States." The law now provides that the Attorney General "shall not deport
or return any alien" to a country "if the Attorney General determines that such
alien's life or freedom would be threatened" there because of race, religion,
nationality, "membership in a particular social group or political opinion."

Addressing that statutory change in his opinion today, Sale v. Haitian Centers
Council, No. 92-344, Justice Stevens said it did not have the purpose the
Haitians' lawyers ascribed to it. The important part of the amendment, he said,
was the addition of the word "return" in the phrase "deport or return." The
word, he said, made it clear that Congress intended to give protection against
summary deportation to two classes of aliens: those who had once been admitted
to the United States and now faced deportation, and those who, while physically
in the country or at the border, had never been admitted and fell into the legal
category of "excludable aliens."

As a legal matter, these excludable aliens, even if actually here, were deemed
to be not "within the United States." So by removing the phrase "within the
United States" from the original 1952 law, Congress simply wanted to protect
this group as it already protected "deportable" aliens, Justice Stevens said.

Blackmun in Dissent

In his dissenting opinion, Justice Blackmun took issue with nearly every element
of the majority's legal analysis. "Whether 'within the United States' or not, a
refugee may not be returned to his persecutors" under the 1980 law, he said. He
added that to read into the law "a territorial restriction is to restore the
very language that Congress removed."

The Haitians' lawsuit was handled by a legal team that included a group of Yale
Law School students, whose professor, Harold Hongju Koh, argued the case before
the Court. The American Civil Liberties Union, the Center for Constitutional
Rights, the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights of the San Francisco Bay Area
and a New York law firm, Simpson Thatcher & Bartlett, also worked on the case.

Earlier this month, in a separate case, a Federal judge ordered the Clinton
Administration to release a group of 158 Haitians infected with the virus that
causes AIDS who had been held in a detention camp at the United States Naval
Base at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba. The Administration is complying with the order,
and the last 14 members of the group arrived in Miami today for resettlement.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 26, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

7 Bodies of Asian Immigrants Unidentified After 3 Weeks

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 565 words


Nearly three weeks after a ship crammed with Chinese immigrants ran aground off
Queens, 7 of the 10 bodies of those who perished trying to swim ashore are still
unidentified.

Community organizations, trying to help families concerned that a relative may
be among the victims, complain that the Immigration and Naturalization Service
has been unwilling to release photographs or other vital information needed to
identify the bodies and bury them properly.

As a result, the bodies have fallen into a kind of bureaucratic limbo between
the Federal immigration agency, the City Medical Examiner's Office, the New York
Police Department and the Consulate of the People's Republic of China. Inquiries
to each organization have been directed to another.

"I don't understand this at all," said William P. Chiu, chairman of the American
Fujian Association of Commerce and Industry. "We have tried to find out from the
police and the I.N.S., and everyone tells us to go somewhere else."

I.N.S. Says It Is Trying

A spokeswoman for the I.N.S., Rosemary LaGuardia, said that the Federal agency
was "aggressively attempting to assist the Medical Examiner's office in
identifying the remaining bodies."

"We are showing photo spreads to the detainees and attempting to check
fingerprint records," Ms. LaGuardia said.

The men, believed to be from Fujian Province in southeastern China, were killed
when the Golden Venture, a tramp steamer carrying nearly 300 Chinese immigrants,
ran aground off Rockaway Peninsula before dawn on June 6.

Mr. Chiu, who helped organize a Buddhist ceremony on Tuesday for the dead on the
beach at Riis Park, said leaders in Chinatown had volunteered to pay for
funerals and to send the bodies back to China once they are identified.

Possible Fear by Families

Stanley Mark, program director of the Asian American Legal Defense and Education
Fund, said he had received inquiries from relatives, but that I.N.S. officials
told him they were not prepared to release any information about the identities
of the dead.

A lawyer who represents Chinese immigrants said that at least one relative was
contacted recently by a man seeking payment for the passenger's voyage, even
though it ended in death. The lawyer, who insisted on anonymity, raised the
possibility that some families of the dead may be afraid to claim the body of a
relative.

The Medical Examiner's office identified three of the dead as Jiang Kun Lin, Ki
Hop Ng and Lin Wing Ding. The bodies of Mr. Lin and Mr. Ng were released to
relatives and taken to the Ng Fook funeral home on Mulberry Street, said Ellen
Borakove, the spokeswoman for the Medical Examiner. Mr. Ding's body and the
seven unidentified bodies remain at the Medical Examiner's office in Manhattan.

She added that because four of the bodies washed ashore more than a week after
the shipwreck, they were badly decomposed and might be hard to identify without
dental records.

Chinese officials insist that they cannot be sure any of the bodies belong to
citizens of the People's Republic until they receive documentation.

"We have seen no photographs, and received no records," said Lin Huisheng, a
spokesman for the Chinese Consulate. Although the issue has been discussed
between Chinese and I.N.S. officials, he said, it is unclear whether the bodies
will be returned to China or buried in the United States.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 27, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Protests Over Spanish In Rite for Citizenship

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 181 words

DATELINE: PHOENIX, June 26


Plans to hold part of a citizenship ceremony in Spanish has been assailed by a
national English-only group as "multiculturalism run amok."

At the ceremony scheduled for July 2 for 75 mostly Mexican immigrants, the oath
of citizenship is to be administered in English.

But Federal District Judge Alfredo Marquez, who will preside, thought the rest
of the ceremony would be more meaningful if it was conducted in the immigrants'
native tongue, said Bill Johnston, officer in charge of the Tucson office of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service.

U.S. English, a group based in Washington that lobbies to make English the only
language for government business, said it would be the first American
citizenship ceremony in another language. The group asked the I.N.S. to stop the
ceremony.

Other English-first groups joined in the criticism. "This is multiculturalism
run amok," said P. George Tryfiates, executive director of English First of
Springfield, Va.

Mr. Johnston said there was no law barring the ceremony in other languages and
that there was no extra cost.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 28, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

New Immigrants Face Racial Hostility

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 205 words


To the Editor:

Your series, "Hidden Economy: Immigrants Underground," beginning June 13,
focuses on immigrants from Asia, Latin America and Africa, implying that the
relative absence of Europeans distinguishes this latest wave of immigration from
its predecessors. This is inaccurate.

The end of the cold war has brought a flood of new entrants from Eastern Europe.
Tens of thousands of illegal Irish immigrants obtained permanent resident status
in the last three years as a result of a new law passed at the behest of
Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Daniel Patrick Moynihan. This law stipulates
preferential treatment for those belonging to one of 36 countries that lie
almost exclusively in the European sphere. This law has achieved its intended
result: people of European origin can obtain a green card with ease, while those
from elsewhere face a different kind of Immigration and Naturalization Service
music.

Not surprisingly, "illegal" immigrants, with the connotation that "illegal"
makes one a "criminal," are usually non-European and nonwhite. Your series
inadvertently advances the racial agenda underlying the hostile attitude toward
the latest immigrants.

D. P. DEVANAND
New York, June 16, 1993

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 29, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

39 Immigrants Rescued In Three Raids in Queens

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 645 words


In raids on three houses in Queens yesterday, the police freed 39 Asian
immigrants held captive in Queens and were considering charges against a
"handful" of Asian gang members suspected of smuggling them into the country.

The first raid began shortly after 11 A.M., when officials rescued about 15 men
from a squat brick house at 164-30 73d Avenue in Fresh Meadows. In the other
raids, they freed 21 men and 5 women from a house at 202-10 50th Avenue in
Bayside and two men at 133-34 Blossom Avenue in Flushing. The immigrants were
taken into police custody, the officials said. They would not say where.

The authorities said they had not charged anyone, but believed the operation
stemmed from members of the Fuk Ching smuggling ring that was involved in the
smuggling of Golden Venture immigrants. In that incident, at least 10 immigrants
drowned when the tramp steamer ran aground off the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens
three weeks ago.

'Prisonlike Conditions'>

During a news conference last night at the 109th Precinct station house,
Detective Raymond Abruzzi, the head of the Queens Detective Squad, said, "They
were held in inhumane, prisonlike conditions in a 6-by-6 basement of a house,"
referring to the house in Bayside. "Many of them had been handcuffed and some
had been tortured and had knife marks and had black-and-blue marks on their
body."

In the last year, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said,
thousands of Chinese immigrants have risked their lives aboard freighters like
the Golden Venture, operated by organized-crime syndicates that charge up to
$35,000 from each would-be immigrant for the passage.

Including the Golden Venture case, in which 320 immigrants were crammed into the
hold of the rusting freighter, the raids in Queens bring to 10 the number of
incidents involving Chinese immigrants found in the New York region in little
over a month.

On May 24, 57 illegal immigrants were found in a Jersey City warehouse. On June
8, 13 were found in the basement of a house in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. On June
17, immigration agents found 22 immigrants in a Bayside, Queens, home. Eight
days later, a Chinese woman found weeping on a Brooklyn street led the police to
a house in Sheepshead Bay where she said she and eight other immigrants had been
held captive, some for as long as half a year.

A Stunning Scene

Even so, the discovery of the immigrants yesterday startled residents in the
neighborhoods of Bayside and Flushing, largely middle-class communities of
private homes, tree-lined streets and tidy gardens.

Witnesses of the raid at 164-30 73d Avenue described a stunning scene of police
officers in unmarked cars and vans suddenly lining the streets, swiftly entering
the single-story structure and emerging with a parade of immigrants, some of
whom walked out without so much as shirts on their backs.

"I just can't imagine all those people living inside that house," said a
22-year-old woman who refused to give her name. "It didn't seem like anything
like that was going on in there."

Another woman, who also refused to give her name, saying she feared reprisal
from the gang, said several men moved into the house about two months ago but
kept a low profile behind drawn shades and a large iron gate that was recently
fastened to a side window of the house.

"The men came in and out of the house all the time, but no one saw them bring
people inside," the woman, 45 years old, said. "Maybe they brought the people in
at night when the neighbors were sleeping."

A man who lives in the basement apartment of the house that was raided said his
new neighbors were quiet people who kept to themselves and attracted little
attention.

"They didn't talk to people," the man, Manuelito Solivio, said. "They really
didn't live here that long, so there wasn't much to notice about them."

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  June 29, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

A Fervent 'No' To Assimilation In New America

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1182 words


For Guilienne Audelin, a 15-year-old Haitian-American who attends a
predominantly black high school in Miami, assimilation is a dirty word. It means
joining the ranks of the disaffected in her inner-city neighborhood, she said,
and being stamped as a "dummy" by a broader American society that she believes
does not see beyond color. It means abandoning her immigrant parents' dreams for
her future, and she simply refuses to do that.

"Nothing could stop me from trying to have a better life than we have now," she
said.

The first broad study of the children of immigrants in 50 years debunks a
longstanding assumption about the American immigrant experience: that
assimilation is the only path to success for immigrants' children.

Today's immigrants, like Guilienne's parents, are most likely to settle in
inner-city neighborhoods, where assimilation often means joining a world that is
antagonistic to the American mainstream. But, according to the new study by
Johns Hopkins University, many prove successful by remaining in their insular
ethnic communities and shutting out the apathy around them.

"This situation stands the cultural blueprint for the advancement of immigrant
groups in American society on its head," said Alejandro Portes, the Johns
Hopkins sociology professor who directed the study.

But the findings do not indicate that immigrants' children, like Guilienne, are
growing up "un-American," attuned solely to the language and culture of their
parents' homeland. In fact, the study found, most of them, while bilingual,
prefer English to their parents' native language and speak it fluently, better
than their parents' tongue. And most also hold on to the strong aspiration of
social mobility through education that propelled earlier immigrants into the
melting pot of American society.

Staying the Course

Guilienne (pronounced ghee-HYEN), for instance, is not daunted by the fact that
her parents, a garbage collector and a nurse's assistant, have only eighth-grade
educations. Neither are her dreams marred by the widespread poverty in her
Little Haiti neighborhood, which many of her peers will not escape. Unlike some
other Haitian-Americans, she has chosen to ignore the peer pressure to be cool,
bored and indifferent, preferring to remain true to the immigrant values of her
hard-working parents.

"I will stay in school as many years as they tell me I have to in order to
become a judge," Guilienne said.

Nonetheless, she and today's other children of immigrants are far different from
the earlier 20th-century immigrants' children, who felt they had to reject the
Old World to get ahead in the New. Today's children are predominantly Hispanic,
Asian and Caribbean, facing racial barriers that did not exist for their
European predecessors and economic barriers that threaten to condemn them to a
swelling underclass.

Fifty years ago, the children of European immigrants were joining an expanding
American industrial work force; today's second-generation Americans find their
prospects for advancement in the working class limited.

The number of immigrants' children in the United States peaked in 1940 at
roughly 28 million, but that number is expected to be surpassed any year now. In
1990, there were about 24.8 million immigrants' children, of whom about 7.7.
million were born to immigrants who arrived after 1960.

Questioning Schoolchildren

Professor Portes, whose research was largely financed by the Mellon Foundation,
collaborated with Florida International University in Miami and the University
of California at San Diego to complete his study of immigrants' children. It is
the first such study since Irving Child's work, "Italian or American? The Second
Generation in Conflict," in 1943. Teams of interviewers questioned 5,000
children of immigrants in the eighth and ninth grades, primarily in Miami and
San Diego, on subjects like language use, discrimination and patriotism.

Predictably, the answers reflected significant differences between nationalities
and between Miami, where Hispanic immigrants increasingly dominate the political
and business life, and San Diego, where anti-immigrant sentiment is considered
high and power remains largely with a white elite.

For instance, 45 percent of the Miami children reported experiencing
discrimination, as against 64 percent in San Diego. And in Miami, the 45 percent
broke down to 66 percent for Haitian-American children, but only 29 percent for
the Cuban-Americans attending predominantly Cuban-American private schools.

"We'd go into a high school where most of the immigrant children were black, and
ask if they'd ever encountered discrimination, and you'd hear this loud,
'Pssh!', like, 'What a stupid question,' " said Lisandro Perez, a Florida
International sociologist. "Then we'd go into a private Cuban school in Miami,
and the concept of discrimination was so alien that students practically didn't
understand the question."

Miguel Salvat, for instance, a 14-year-old Cuban-American, said he had never
experienced prejudice and firmly believed that everyone in America has the same
opportunities regardless of race or ethnicity.

But, in the same city, Guilienne said she often encountered discrimination. "In
America, they won't accept you for who you are," she said. "They look at the
color of your skin, how you are dressed and how you look."

Speaking English

Although Miami is among the most bilingual cities in the country, 99 percent of
the children interviewed there said they spoke English well or very well. And
contrary to what many advocates of English-only and English-first laws might
expect, 94 percent of the Cuban-American students said they preferred English to
Spanish.

In San Diego, 90 percent of the immigrants' children said that they spoke
English well, but 9 percent said they spoke it poorly. Among the latter
especially were Mexican-Americans, with 14 percent saying they spoke English
poorly, Vietnamese-Americans (19 percent) and Laotian-Americans (23 percent).
About 65 percent of all children said they preferred English to their parents'
native language.

The longer the children have lived in the United States, the better their
English. "All the children are well on their way to being fluent English
speakers, even, one could argue, on the way to monolingualism," Professor Portes
said. "It is the parents' language, not English, that is endangered."

About 70 percent of Haitian-American and Filipino-American children barely speak
their parents' native language, the study found. (Guilienne said she spoke
Creole fluently but preferred "proper English.") On the other hand, it found
that about 70 percent of the children of Spanish-speaking immigrants speak
Spanish fluently.

Most of the children interviewed, particularly those in California, were
reluctant to call themselves Americans. And few accepted the pan-ethnic labels
Hispanic and Asian. Like Guilienne and Miguel, they preferred Cuban or
Cuban-American, Haitian or Haitian-American, and so on.

"I am proud of my blood," Guilienne said.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The longstanding assumption about the American immigrant
experience that assimilation is the only path to success is questioned in a new
study. For Guilienne Audelin, left, assimilation means being stamped as a
"dummy" by a broader American society that she believes does not see beyond
color. To Miguel Salvat, however, "whites and non-whites have the same
opportunities in America." (Photographs by Phillippe Diederich for The New York
Times)

Graph: "At a Glance: Children of Immigrants" shows percentages of children whose
parents are immigrants.

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 4, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

EGYPT ASKING U.S. FOR EXTRADITION OF RADICAL CLERIC

BYLINE: By CHRIS HEDGES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: CAIRO, July 3


The Egyptian Government, in an abrupt shift in policy, has asked the United
States to extradite Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the Islamic cleric who was detained
on Friday in New York on immigration charges, to Egypt, senior Government
officials said today.

"The United States and Egypt have decided to work together to deliver this
criminal to Egypt to stand trial," said an Egyptian official. "He is just one
man. We can handle him."

The Egyptian officials, who spoke on the condition that they not be identified,
said the Government made the request in a meeting today between the Egyptian
Foreign Minister, Amr Moussa, and Robert H. Pelletreau Jr., the American
Ambassador.

Mr. Pelletreau, while conceding that the discussion centered on the fate of Mr.
Abdel Rahman, refused to confirm or deny that the Egyptians were asking for the
extradition of the cleric, who is wanted on charges of inciting violence at an
Egyptian mosgue in 1989.

"We discussed recent actions in the United States with respect to the detention
of Omar Abdel Rahman," Mr. Pelletreau said. "That is all I would say on that."

Unexpected Request

Top State Department officials in Washington said late this afternoon that they
had no knowledge of any extradition request from Egypt and indicated that they
did not expect such a request any time soon.

[In Washington, a Clinton Administration official said the law-enforcement and
intelligence communities were extremely concerned about threats by Mr. Abdel
Rahman's followers to retaliate for his detention, and the F.B.I. set up a
crisis command post to deal with threats. Page 26.]

Moving for extradition would not mean Mr. Abdel Rahman would be returned to
Egypt soon. The process could take years, allowing him ample room for appeal.
The United States is already involved in a lengthy process to deport him.

Why the Egyptian Government is taking such a course is unclear. Although angered
by the presence of the cleric in the United States, it has always refused to
demand his return, fearing that his imprisonment could unleash a wave of attacks
by his followers.

Mr. Abdel Rahman is the spiritual leader of the Islamic Group, a militant
organization trying to overthrow Egypt's President, Hosni Mubarak, and establish
an Islamic state.

The radical group, which on Friday threatened to wage a terror campaign against
American expatriates and American targets in Egypt and abroad, has carried out a
series of attacks against Government officials, the police, intellectuals,
Coptic Christians and foreign tourists.

Michael McCurry, a State Department spokesman, said, "While we have had
extensive diplomatic consultations with Cairo on the subject of the sheik and
his detention, any discussion of extradition is entirely premature."

Egypt's intentions became known after the Higher State Security Court in the
city of Fayoum, 55 miles southwest of Cairo, ordered Mr. Abdel Rahman's arrest
today as part of the move to establish a legal framework for his detention upon
his return to Egypt, the Egyptian officials said.

Mr. Abdel Rahman, although he has been tried three times in Egypt, has been
acquitted of all charges and has never been convicted of any serious crimes
here.

A senior Justice Department official said today that diplomatic pressure from
Egypt had not been a factor in the decision to arrest Mr. Abdel Rahman.

The senior official acknowledged that the United States had discussed the issue
with Egypt, but he would not characterize Cairo's views. He said Egypt had "not
at all" influenced the Justice Department's decision first to allow Mr. Abdel
Rahman to remain at large and then to take him into custody.

Reaffirming an explanation given earlier by other law-enforcement officials, the
senior official said Attorney General Janet Reno had ordered Federal agents to
arrest Mr. Abdel Rahman after intelligence sources indicated that he might try
to flee the country.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 5, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Haitian General Begins a Selling Job;
Haitians in U.S. Hopeful

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 294 words


Haitian immigrants in New York spoke with great caution about the latest sign
that democracy would be restored to their homeland. But in the end, there was
more hope than misgiving in their voices.

Haitians around the city went about their normal routines yesterday, gathering
in churches, barber shops and restaurants, where they eagerly exchanged news
from back home.

There was no great celebration, only the crossing of fingers by those huddled
over newspaper reports and hopeful prayers including those of a Haitian
congregation in Flatbush, Brooklyn.

'Wait and See'

"People are skeptical," said the Rev. Rollin Darbouze, the pastor of Holy Cross
Church at 2530 Church Avenue in Brooklyn, which for years has provided food and
lodging to refugees from Haiti. "Things can change in an instant, and then we're
back where we started. That's why we have to wait and see."

On a day when Americans were celebrating their nation's independence, many
immigrants recalled the price their compatriots in Haiti had paid under the
military leaders who ousted President Aristide.

They spoke of their homeland's abject poverty, brutal political repression and
hunger, wondering among themselves about the wisdom of an accord that would
allow the military to remain in place until President Aristide returned, and
possibly afterward.

"There is great reason to be concerned," said Jean Mercius, 39, the owner of a
clothing store on Flatbush Avenue. "The problem is that the crime organization
-- those who brought the coup -- are still in town."

Mr. Mercius, whose father helped organize support for Father Aristide's election
in 1990, added, "These people still have much political and economic influence,
and it will be very hard for them to go away."

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                   July 5, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. TO COOPERATE ON CAIRO'S REQUEST FOR SHEIK'S RETURN

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1267 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 4


Secretary of State Warren Christopher said today that the United States would
act swiftly on Egypt's request for the return of Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman, the
radical Islamic cleric who was detained on Friday in New York on immigration
charges.

Mr. Christopher's comments followed intense diplomatic discussions in Cairo over
the fate of Mr. Abdel Rahman, who has been accused of inciting violence among
his followers in Egypt and whose followers in the United States include suspects
in a plot to set off bombs across Manhattan and the bombing of the World Trade
Center on Feb. 26.

The extradition request came after Robert H. Pelletreau, the United States
Ambassador to Egypt, told Egypt's Foreign Minister, Amr Moussa, in a meeting on
Saturday that under American law, Mr. Abdel Rahman, who is appealing an
expulsion order, could leave the United States voluntarily and seek refuge in a
third country sympathetic to his preachings against Egypt's secular Government,
senior Administration officials said today.

A Sympathetic View

Mr. Pelletreau also said Mr. Abdel Rahman could even seek refuge in the Sudan,
which Egypt has accused of harboring anti-Egyptian terrorists, the officials
added.

Mr. Christopher, in his comments today on NBC's "Meet the Press," indicated that
the United States would take a sympathetic view of the extradition request. "We
will process the request in the normal way, and that's to process the
extradition by a friendly country," Mr. Christopher said. "And we will go about
that in a prompt way."

'Could Take Some Time'

But he added that the procedure "could take some time" and that the State
Department expected Mr. Abdel Rahman to appeal the extradition request. "No
doubt we'll see some objections being brought in the legal proceedings," he
said.

Some immigration experts said today, however, that the Government might have to
wait for Mr. Abdel Rahman to exhuast his appeals in his separate immigration
case before it proceeds on Egypt's request. That is because the cleric has
sought to remain in the United States on the basis of political asylum,
asserting that he will be persecuted if he is forced to return to Egypt.

Mr. Christopher said Mr. Moussa formally presented the United States with a
request for Mr. Abdel Rahman's extradition during a meeting today with Mr.
Pelletreau. In remarks that are considered likely to be criticized in Cairo, Mr.
Christopher did not play down the risk of possible violence against Americans
traveling abroad.

Asked about a State Department travel advisory issued after Mr. Abdel Rahman's
detention that urged American travelers abroad to take precautions against
possible anti-American activity, Mr. Christopher said, "Clearly, there is some
risk of demonstrations in other parts of the world, particularly in Egypt and
the Middle East."

On the other hand, he said, "Egypt has a very substantial law-enforcement
capability and I wouldn't exaggerrate it, but we thought it was significant
enough so that we wanted to put out that advisory."

The extradition request culminated a week of vacillation in which the Clinton
Administration seemed unable to decide how to handle Mr. Abdel Rahman's case. A
week ago, law-enforcement officials defended their decision to leave him at
large despite indications that he knew details of the bombing plot. On Thursday,
after criticism by lawmakers like Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York,
Attorney General Janet Reno ordered Mr. Abdel Rahman apprehended, saying he was
a danger to the community and posed a risk of possible flight from Government
action.

Abrupt Decision

It was not clear how the sheik's incarceration factored into the Egyptians'
thinking in its abrupt decision to seek extradition. But it was possible that
Mr. Abdel Rahman's apprehension might cause him to change his legal strategy and
agree to leave rather than continue fighting efforts to expel him from the
United States.

Egypt's decision to try to prosecute Mr. Abdel Rahman is a stunning reversal of
its strongly held position that it wanted to have no part in deciding his fate.
Faced with the concrete possibility that Mr. Abdel Rahman could abandon his
efforts to remain in the United States and go free, Egypt felt that it had no
choice but to prosecute him, a senior Egyptian official said in Cairo today.

"The Americans gave us no choice," said the official, who added that his
Government felt "pressured" by Washington. "It was not something we had planned
to do. But the Americans made it clear to us they could not keep him. So we had
no option."

The official said that there was fierce debate within the Government over what
to do in response to the detention of Mr. Abdel Rahman but that the Government
could not afford to have him leave the United States to deliver his radical
sermons somewhere else.

Another Egyptian official said the Cairo Government hoped that by bringing Mr.
Abdel Rahman back, it could "diminish his stature" and "whittle him down to
size." The official added, "The Clinton Administration and the media created the
sheik and it is time for us to deflate him."

Administration officials denied that the United States had pressured Egypt to
request the sheik's extradition. But some Administration officials acknowledged
that Egypt may have decided to extradite the sheik, who has called for the
overthrow of Egypt's President, Hosni Mubarak, in his fiery sermons, and to try
him in Egyptian courts after it became clear he might be allowed to recreate his
headquarters in neighboring Sudan.

Lengthy Appeals

At most, the immigration case against Mr. Abdel Rahman's could result in his
deportation after lengthy appeals through administrative tribunals and then
through Federal courts. Had Federal authorities charged him with a crime, he
would have faced a trial and, if convicted, the possibility of long
incarceration in a Federal prison in the United States.

From the suddenness and intensity of diplomatic discussions this weekend, it
appeared that the decision not to charge Mr. Abdel Rahman with a crime -- an
action that left open the possibility that he might try to seek refuge in a
country besides Egypt -- created serious concern within the Mubarak Government.

Mr. Abdel Rahman entered the United States via the Sudan in 1990 after the the
American Embassy erroneously issued him a visa despite the fact that he was on
an Amercican watch list of undesirables.

The Egyptian request to extradite Mr. Abdel Rahman caught the State Department
and Justice Department by surprise. On Satuday, officials in Washington insisted
that they had no knowledge of any request from Egypt and did not expect one soon
despite reports from Cairo that the Higher State Court in the city of Fayoum, 55
miles southwest of Cairo, ordered Mr. Abdel Rahman's arrest as part of a
strategy to build a case for his detention if he is returned to Egypt.

Sometimes extradition can take years, as in the case of Joseph Doherty, the
Irish Republican Army guerilla who was convicted in Northern Ireland in the
killing of a British solidier. Mr. Doherty was held in Federal jails for eight
years while he fought extradition. His effort to avoid forced return ended last
year with his deportation to Northern Ireland.

Although Mr. Abdel Rahman has been tried three times in Egypt, he has been
acquitted of all charges and has never been convicted of any serious crimes.

To proceed with the extradition request, Egypt must now submit a formal
diplomatic note, a warrant from the appropriate court and a package of other
legal documents.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 6, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

British Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 86 words



To the Editor:

Milton C. Gelenian writes in a June 16 letter on United States immigration of
"Britain's restrictive policies regarding people of color." Not true. Last
year's breakdown by origin: Indian subcontinent, 29 percent; Americas, 14
percent; Africa, 17 percent; Australasia, 4 percent; Asia (other), 19 percent;
Western Europe, 7 percent; Eastern Europe, 2 percent, others, 8 percent. We do
not keep records of "color."

NICHOLAS BROWNE
Counselor, British Embassy
Washington, June 23, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 10, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Mexico Rejects U.S. Request To Hold Chinese Found at Sea

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 953 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 9


The Mexican Government tonight refused a request by the United States to detain
three shiploads of illegal Chinese immigrants intercepted this week by the Coast
Guard.

Earlier in the day, the Administration had asked Mexico to allow the ships to
dock in Mexican port, presumably under armed escort by the Coast Guard, which
intercepted the ships on Thursday and discovered 659 Chinese aliens on board.

Coast Guard officials said the three ships were part of a fleet of seven tramp
steamers attempting to smuggle immigrants into the United States.

The State Department, in its first test of President Clinton's vow to stop
uncontrolled immigration, had argued that when intercepted, the ships had been
closer to the Mexican coast than to the shores of the United States.

Delicate Problem for U.S.

The United States' plan called for the Chinese to be allowed to land in Mexico,
where they would be interviewed by United Nations officials to determine whether
they had legitimate claims to political asylum.

"The only people who can determine legal refugee status in Mexico is the Mexican
Government," a senior Mexico foreign ministry official said tonight.

Just after 11 P.M. New York time, Mexico's foreign ministry, the Secretariat of
Exterior Relations, issued a statement saying that in strict adherence to
international law, it was not in a position to accept the United States'
proposal.

However, the Mexican Government's statement added that if the immigrants were to
enter the 200-mile international waters boundary of Mexico, they would be
treated as illegal aliens and immediately sent back to China.

The intent of that statement was not clear, since the United States Coast Guard
had already escorted the three ships to a rendezvous within 70 miles of Mexico's
coast, well within the 200-mile boundary.

The statement said that if the aliens were detained, they would be given
humantiarian assistance, if needed, but that the tramp steamers on which they
were being smuggled would be confiscated, and the crews and anyone else involved
in bringing the aliens to Mexico would be prosecuted.

Mexico's refusal leaves the Administration with a delicate and potentially
embarrassing problem, since the ships were intercepted in international waters
southwest of San Diego.

State Department officials could not be reached late tonight for comment, and a
White House press spokesman, Jeff Eller, said the Administration was still
awaiting Mexico's response.

A diplomat in the United States embassy here said that embassy officials had met
with Mexican authorities throughout much of the day, but were unaware that the
request had been turned down.

The Administration hoped that intercepting smugglers' ships on the high seas
would send a signal to the 100,000 Chinese who try to enter the United States
aboard such vessels each year.

"We want to put a stop to the practice," Joe Snyder, a State Department
spokesman, said earlier today. "The idea is that if you can show the people who
are organizing these ventures -- and the victims, the poor souls who get caught
up in them -- it's not going to result in their coming to the United States,
then we won't have to worry about the problem in the future."

The four other ships in the flotilla, all seven of which are sailing under the
flag of Taiwan, are still headed east toward the mainland. They are believed to
be carrying hundreds more Chinese immigrants.

Mexico's refusal leaves the United States with a potentially volatie
international problem on its hands. It is one thing to send Haitian refugees a
few hundred miles back to Haiti, as Washington has done, and quite another to
send Chinese refugees thousands of miles back across the Pacific Ocean.

United States immigration officials and immigrants' advocates said Mexico had no
legal obligation to honor the United States' request. "The Coast Guard took
these people into custody in international waters and bears responsibility for
them," said Bill Frelick, senior policy analyst at the United States Committee
for Refugees, an advocacy group in Washington. "If we repatriate them we have
the potential of their blood on our hands."

The Chinese Government jailed and fined 112 people who were intercepted in the
Pacific and repatriated by the United States in May, immigration officials said.

The three ships -- the Sing Li, with 236 passengers aboard, the Long Sen, with
169, and the To Ching, with 254 -- were spotted on July 3 by a Coast Guard jet
on "a stepped-up air patrol due to the recent influx of undocumented aliens,"
said Petty Officer Liz Brannan, a Coast Guard official in Long Beach, Calif.

The plight of Chinese paying small fortunes to smugglers for a cramped passage
to the United States came into sharp focus on June 6, when a shipwreck spilled
nearly 300 immigrants seeking political asylum onto New York City's shores. At
least eight passengers died in the wreck.

On June 18, President Clinton approved a plan aimed at stopping such smuggling
operations, and the Administration stepped up its efforts to patrol
international waters and seize suspect ships.

That plan was strengthened on June 21 by a Supreme Court ruling in a case
involving Haitian refugees. The Court ruled that the President had unlimited
power to order the Coast Guard to repatriate aliens intercepted on the high
seas. The White House is now applying the ruling globally, using military and
intelligence agencies to track ships in the Atlantic and Pacific.

The United States can reject people fleeing economic hardship rather than
political persecution. But under the law, a request for political asylum by an
illegal immigrant triggers potentially lengthy court proceedings.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 11, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Children of Immigrants Excel in English

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 150 words


To the Editor:

As a Hispanic-American, I was encouraged by the findings of the study by
Alejandro Portes reported in "A Fervent 'No' to Assimilation in New America"
(news article, June 29). This study shows that children of immigrants not only
want to speak English, but also speak it well. They know speaking English is
essential to survive and succeed in our society.

This study shows that other languages do not threaten the dominance of English,
and thus English-only laws are unnecessary.

This study does not appear to demonstrate, however, that the children voiced a
fervent "no" to assimilation. Rather, their desire to speak English and retain
their cultural identity shows their wish to assimilate without losing the
culture and language of their parents. This richer vision of assimilation holds
great promise for our future.

JENNIFER L. ROSATO
Brooklyn, July 1, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 11, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Children of Immigrants Excel in English;
Quick to Assimilate

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 174 words


To the Editor:

According to "A Fervent 'No' to Assimilation in New America" (news article, June
29), Guilienne Audelin, a 15-year-old Haitian-American, thinks assimilation is a
dirty word. She apparently represents a new wave of immigrant children who
refuse to let go of their heritage. Your article reflects confusion about
assimilation.

The findings you report in a study by Alejandro Portes show that a significant
degree of social assimilation has taken place. Large majorities of the Filipino,
Mexican and Vietnamese-American children studied think "the United States is the
best country to live in." Nearly 90 percent of Haitian and Filipino-American
children prefer speaking English over their parents' native tongue. Even
Guilienne Audelin prefers what she calls "proper English" over Creole, which she
also speaks fluently.

Not every group scored well in terms of assimilation, but that hardly warrants
your misleading headline and tone.

LINDA CHAVEZ
John M. Olin Fellow, Manhattan Inst.
Washington, June 29, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 13, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Mexican Official Rebukes U.S. on Chinese Aliens

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 859 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 12


With unusual sharpness, a senior official in the Mexican foreign ministry told
the United States today that the fate of 659 undocumented Chinese aliens aboard
three ships off Mexico is up to the United States, and that Mexico's rejection
of a request by the United States for assistance still stands.

"Mexico is not going to accept these people," said the official, who spoke on
condition that he not be identified. "This is the responsibility of the United
States."

The official said Mexico had made it clear in a letter to Ambassador John D.
Negroponte on Saturday that it "was not in position" to accept the United
States' request to allow the three ships to dock in Mexico, where the passengers
could be interviewed and then either allowed to enter the United States or
returned to China.

The official disputed the accuracy of a statement by the State Department over
the weekend that negotiations were continuing on possible solutions. Moreover,
he contended that the United States had made an unreasonable request because the
Chinese had no desire to go to Mexico and because, he said, United States
immigration law so often worked against Mexican citizens trying to enter the
United States.

Policy Change Suggested

"Why would we do this as a favor to the United States when our own people are
victims of the same policy?" the official asked. He also said the United States
seemed to be trying to change an immigration policy that for last 12 years had
allowed Chinese citizens to seek asylum in the United States.

The Mexicans denied that further negotiations had taken place. They said
officials from both countries had met, but only to share information.

In Washington, however, the State Department said that talks were continuing
"with some intensity" but that there was no sign of resolving what is becoming
an embarrassing international dilemma.

The dubious conditions on board the ships added to the urgency of the
negotiations. The Coast Guard said today that conditions on the three aging
commercial vessels crammed with Chinese were "fair" at best. In the last few
days the Coast Guard has ferried out hundreds of pounds of rice and military
meals, as well as life jackets and an electric generator for a ship whose engine
had failed.

But a State Department spokesman gave a harsher assessment. "Conditions on these
ships are truly appalling," said the spokesman, Michael McCurry. "That's one
more reason that requires us to deal quickly and accurately with the threat that
is presented to those on board."

The origin of the ships has not yet been disclosed, but officials in the United
States and Mexico said they appeared to be part of international smuggling
rings.

Mexican immigration officials backed off earlier reports that four other ships
carrying more than 700 Chinese were heading toward the coast. And Coast Guard
officials said their air patrols had not sighted them.

Thirteen employees of the Immigration and Naturalization Service have boarded
the three ships, but officials said today that they were sent mainly as
interpreters, not as part of any resolution to the diplomatic standoff between
the United States and Mexico.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration agency in Washington, said the
Chinese-speaking interpreters were helping United States Coast Guard personnel
who have been caring for the aliens since the ships, which were heading east,
were intercepted last week and brought to a point in international waters 64
miles west of Ensenada, Mexico.

While Coast Guard medics have treated several passengers for minor injuries,
only one person, a 19-year-old woman, has required hospitalization.

Immigration officials in San Diego said the woman, Zhou Shiuyun, of Fuzhou
province in China, was airlifted Sunday afternoon to the University of
California at San Diego Medical Center, where she underwent emergency surgery
for a tubal pregnancy. She was in good condition today, said Eileen Callahan, a
hospital spokeswoman.

Ms. Zhou spoke to The San Diego Union-Tribune on Sunday but has declined further
interviews, Ms. Callahan said. "She's under a lot of medication," the
spokeswoman added.

'I Hate the System'

Immigration officials said they suspected that she was going to the East Coast
because she was carrying a New York-area telephone number.

"It's not just an economic problem," Ms. Zhou said in the Union-Tribune article.
"I hate the system in China. There's no justice. I'll be punished severely, too,
if the Americans send me back. That will be the end of me."

In the same interview she said it was a smuggler's promises of opening her own
business that led her to borrow half of the $20,000 fee to be smuggled to the
United States.

Immigration officials said Ms. Zhou was allowed into the United States under a
medical parole permit and would be returned to the boat as soon as her condition
improved. But an I.N.S.  spokesman, Rudy Murillo, predicted that Ms. Zhou would
ask for political asylum to buy time in the United States.

"She's talking like she's very well versed, very well coached," he said. "It's
hard to reconcile the entire story."

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

MEXICO, IN SWITCH, DECIDES TO RETURN STRANDED CHINESE

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1322 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, July 14


In a sudden reversal, the Mexican Government apparently bowed to American
pressure today and agreed to take responsibility for 659 Chinese refugees aboard
three ships about 60 miles off the Mexican coast that were intercepted by the
Coast Guard while headed for the United States.

Only hours after officials here had reiterated their stance that the smuggled
Chinese were an American problem, a senior official announced that Mexico would
allow the ships into port and then immediately return the immigrants to China.

The official, Andres Rozental, Under Secretary of Foreign Relations in Charge of
North America, said in an interview tonight that Mexico was taking charge of the
Chinese "purely on humanitarian grounds," because of the deteriorating shipboard
conditions.

Pressure From Washington

But privately, Mexican and American officials confirmed that the United States
had pressed Mexico hard to help resolve the problem, which embarrassed the
Clinton Administration only weeks after it announced a new policy to discourage
illegal immigration.

Some American officials had voiced concern that Mexico's tough rejection of the
United States request came at a particularly inopportune time.

Only four months from now, the United States Congress is to cast the decisive
vote on the North American Free Trade Agreement that is intended to eventually
unite the United States, Mexico and Canada in a single, tariff-free zone.
Mexico's demonstrated willingness to cooperate with the United States on
non-trade issues is certain to weigh heavily in the vote.

Mr. Rozental said that Alexander Watson, the United States Assistant Secretary
of State for Inter-American affairs, raised the issue of the immigrants in talks
with senior Mexican diplomats in Mexico City on Monday. But Mr. Rozental said,
"I don't think there was any major pressure or anything."

Still, the episode was the latest in a series that have seemed to define the
relationship between the two countries on the basis of Mexico's overwhelming
desire to see the trade agreement passed. The accord is expected to increase
jobs and wages in Mexico only slowly, but it is expected to quicken the flow of
much-needed foreign investment in Mexico right away.

Over the last year, Mexico has prominently reversed itself several times in
disputes with the United States, and almost every time Mexican officials have
acknowledged their fears for the trade agreement as a leading factor.

A United States official said that tonight, even while senior officials in the
Mexican Foreign Secretariat were publicly insisting that Mexico was not
negotiating over the fate of the Chinese, and would not, other officials under
President Carlos Salinas de Gortari were continuing to hold out the possibility
of Mexican help.

Decision Is Welcomed

"Throughout this thing, there were some Mexican officials who were irritated and
were unwilling to cooperate on this, and others who were willing to cooperate to
work this situation out," the American official said.

In a public statement in Washington, Martin Judge, a State Department spokesman,
said: "We welcome Mexico's humanitarian decision. Our discussions with Mexico
continue, and we are willing to cooperate with the Mexican Government in this
matter."

Mr. Judge said "consultations" on the immigation issue would continue Thursday
in Mexico City.

Tonight in Washington, National Security Council and State Department officials
were so sensitive about the appearance of having pressured Mexico that they
would not discuss the nature of the talks that took place with Mexico this week.

On Monday, Mr. Watson met in Mexico City with Foreign Minister Fernando Solana
Morales to discuss the request that Mexico accept the Chinese refugees, Mexican
officials said. But the Foreign Minister expressed his displeasure at the
request and its timing, four days after the request was first reported in
American newspapers, and the talks faltered, Mexican officials said.

Treatment of Mexicans

Mexican diplomats had shown their ire at the American request for help with the
Chinese openly. They suggested it was almost hypocritical to seek Mexico's aid
with the problem when, Mexico maintains, the United States habitually mistreats
some of the estimated two million Mexican citizens who cross illegally into the
United States each year.

For more than a year now, Mexico also has been pushing the United States to
change its immigration policies to guarantee undocumented Mexican immigrants
better treatment and to allow more Mexicans living on the Mexican side of the
border and working in the United States to be allowed to cross legally. Mexican
officials said they feared that the Clinton Administration's new harder-line
policy on keeping illegal immigrants out could have negative consequences for
those goals.

But Mr. Rozental insisted that Mexico did not change its position. In its
written appeal to Mexico for help last Friday, Mr. Rozental said, the United
States had asked that Mexico bring the three Chinese boats into Mexican ports,
then process the smuggled aliens jointly with the United States and the United
Nations High Commission on Refugees to determine the validity of any claims of
political persecution. The United States said it would then assume the cost of
sending the rest of the Chinese, most of whom are believed to have paid
thousands of dollars to be passed like chattel across the Pacific.

Mexico's Own Plan

Rather than accept those conditions, Mexico came up with its own plan, Mr.
Rozental said.

He said the Mexican authorities would only tow the Chinese ships into port once
they had made their way from their current position, about 70miles out to sea,
to the 12-mile limit of Mexican territorial waters. Since one of the three ships
is disabled and another is believed to be in precarious mechanical shape,
Mexican officials said they expected the United States to take charge of
assisting the boats to the 12-mile limit.

Mexican officials added that, as is their policy, they would not hear any claims
of asylum from the immigrants. And though they have consistently accepted
American compensation for processing third-country immigrants in the past, they
said they would reject an offer of United States financing this time.

"These people were in really bad shape and in order not to prolong their
suffering, we felt that we should get them back to China as soon as possible,"
Mr. Rozental said.

Persecuted or Not?

A Mexican official added: "We know very well that none of these people who are
coming here are being persecuted. The U.S. knows that, too. The only difference
is that in the United States, the only thing you have to do is to step on
American soil and cry asylum, and you get a hearing."

Mr. Rozental said Mexican diplomats had ascertained that more than 100 Chinese
repatriated by Mexico in May had not been punished by the Communist Government.
But American immigration officials said an additional 112 Chinese whom the
United States repatriated around the same time were subsequently jailed and
fined.

Mexico has long prided itself on a generous policy of providing asylum to
peoples fleeing politically motivated repression.

But last year, as Mexico struggled to begin the repatriation of more than 40,000
Guatemalan refugees who have been camped on its southern border for a decade, it
expelled 123,050 illegal immigrants, many of whom it said were trying to cross
into the United States for economic reasons. They included people from India,
Latin Americans and Asians, 427 of them Chinese.

Mexico was especially angered in May, when about 200 Chinese from a group seized
in Baja California escaped from the Mexicali airport and fled toward the United
States. Most were caught, but Mexico was livid when the American authorities
refused to allow the Mexican plane deporting them to even refuel on Alaskan
soil.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mexico has agreed to take responsibility for the 659 Chinese
immigrants on three ships that were headed for the United States. Some of the
Chinese immigrants waited on Monday aboard the To Ching 212 while the Coast
Guard detained the ship off the coast of Baja California. (Reuters) (pg. A18)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

4 Indicted in Chinese Immigrant Extortion

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 238 words


Four members of the Fuk Ching gang were indicted yesterday on kidnapping,
robbery and extortion charges for holding 41 Chinese immigrants against their
will in three safe houses in Queens, District Attorney Richard A. Brown said.

Mr. Brown described as inhuman the conditions in which the undocumented
immigrants were kept when they were discovered by the police late last month.

At one site, he said in a statement yesterday, about 20 men were held in a
6-by-6-foot basement room where many were handcuffed and scarred with marks that
indicated they had been tortured.

"They were huddled together in areas in which they were unable to move," the
District Attorney said. "They were caged together like animals."

The suspects were identified as Chan Tung Muo, 18, Zheng Yong Qin, 26, Chang Dai
Jung, 21, and Sun Tung Sing, 20. Mr. Chan and Mr. Zheng live in Manhattan; Mr.
Chang and Mr. Sun live in Bayside, Queens.

According to Mr. Brown, detectives were led to the safe houses after staking out
a payoff by a Chinese immigrant, who told the police that gang members had
demanded that he pay $5,000 more than his original fee for being smuggled into
the United States in 1992.

The police were then led to a safe house in Bayside, where 19 men and 5 women
were found, they said. An additional 15 people were found being held at a Fresh
Meadows safe house, and 2 men were found in Flushing, according to Mr. Brown.

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Informer, Not Sheik, Holds Key to Bomb Plot;
Egypt of the West?

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 398 words


To the Editor:

"Not So Fast on the Sheik" (editorial, July 8) is most disturbing. Just before
Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman presented himself to the Immigration and Naturalization
Service authorities at the firehouse in front of the mosque in Brooklyn, he
asked me rhetorically, "Is America becoming another Egypt?" -- meaning a country
where freedom of speech and the press is limited by the government.

You fail to note that in Egypt, Israel, Iraq and other backward countries,
"administrative detention" for six months or a year or indefinitely is ordered
without reference to the judicial process. In more civilized lands, such
detention is given for 48 hours or 72 hours or four days, at most five days,
after which the government presents its case to a court of law.

Attorney General Janet Reno ordered administrative detention for the sheik
without time limits. Is America becoming another Egypt?

Your questions and insinuations about terrorist plots and "why the Government
allowed him into the country," and that the sheik is "suspected of having ties"
to those implicated in the murder of Rabbi Meir Kahane -- make you seem to
support guilt by association.

I was under deportation for eight years from 1964 to 1972. Under the pressure of
intolerant politicians, including the senators from New York, I was charged with
"having engaged in activities contrary to the best interest of the United
States." I had engaged in protests and spoken against United States support of
Israel. My activities could have been considered contrary to the best interest
of Israel, but not the United States.

Two brilliant American Civil Liberties Union lawyers helped the rule of law
withstand political pressure. Sheik Omar's constitutional rights will also be
upheld.

Of course, if there is evidence against the sheik, the Government should present
its case to the courts, indict, arrest and try the man, and if he is found
guilty, imprison him. But to detain him indefinitely is un-American! The sheik
should be tried in courts of law, not in the newspapers.

If Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman continues preaching his stuff for the next 50 years,
the Republic will stand. Let's not sacrifice the constitutional rights of any
person on American soil because of rumor and suspicion, fear and paranoia.

M. T. MEHDI
President, American-Arab
Relations Committee
New York, July 8, 1993

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 20, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

On My Mind;
The U.S. Smashes A Peril

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words


Americans can rest easier. Washington has shown it can protect its citizens
against at least one great peril from abroad.

No, it is not drugs. And it is not foreign guns so attractive to American
collectors and street killers, not that. And it is not the laundered money and
shadow companies that allow foreign dictators to buy American technology and
products that can be turned into weaponry.

But the Clinton Administration has shown that it knows how to put together the
power of the United States Navy, the Supreme Court and the Federal bureaucracy
to stop this danger: the possibility that refugees from Communist China can get
a decent hearing before they are shipped back in handcuffs.

For anybody who still cares about that old sentimental stuff about America being
a home for those who flee despotism, that is the meaning of the nasty episode of
the three ships intercepted by the Navy in international waters.

The Clinton Administration has decided to get tough about immigration. No more
mushy Reagan-Bush era insistence on following regulations that gave undocumented
immigrants landing in the U.S. a full chance to prove they were refugees.

Now it is stop them in the water and ship them back without hearings that take
time and money.

So when the ships were spotted, the Navy arrested them, along with the 658
Chinese aboard. The Supreme Court recently said the Navy and Coast Guard could
halt ships in international waters if the U.S. suspected intent to violate
American laws.

A handy ruling, that. No doubt one day it will be invoked again against foreign
ships and citizens by the Chinese Communists. Beijing had its own policy of
piracy at sea long before the Supreme Court was struck by the idea.

Then the U.S. twisted Mexico's arm; you could hear bones cracking from Baja
California to Yucatan. So Mexico let the Chinese land long enough to shove them
on planes, in handcuffs and away from the press -- back to China, and the
attentions of the Communist police.

How many of those were political refugees, not ordinary folk committing the
deportable crime of crossing seas in search of bread? Probing here and there,
you discover an unpleasant bureaucratic charade.

Translators were sent to the ships by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. They had been told to ask the Chinese to fill out a detailed
questionnaire proving they were political refugees in danger of their lives if
sent back, not just fleeing China in search of work and liberty.

Only 184 took the chance that the questionnaire, which would be sent to Geneva
to the U.N. Refugee Commissioner, would one day fall into Communist hands.

Back came the evaluation -- at least 58 made good cases. That should have
guaranteed them hearings. But the I.N.S. did a little winnowing out, reducing
the list -- to one.

And what about the 474 who refused to fill out the questionnaire? That worries
Arthur Helton of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights. It should worry anybody
who cares about refugees. Some of the most endangered believe it is asking for
the noose to fill in forms on political oppression if there is a strong
possibility they will be sent back.

Were there 58 refugees? Four times that many? Or just one "real" political
refugee and 657 nervy dastards coming to America seeking work and a taste of
liberty? These people are not officially considered deserving of America's
compassion. By blocking hearings, the U.S. made sure the world could never know.

Americans seem to be in an anti-immigration mood. "What, you want a billion
Chinese over here and all those, you know, Haitians?" Let's cut through it --
the obsessive emphasis on Chinese and Haitians is racism.

President Clinton owes the country a careful report on immigration -- advantages
as well as costs. Instead the Administration is rushing legislation that could
reduce hearings to kangaroo courts presided over by immigration agents, not
judges.

But it should make some folks happy -- liberals and conservatives who have
forgotten both American principles and their own origins, anti-alien nuts whose
ugliness you can smell through the envelopes, and assorted dictators who love
their people too much to let them go.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 25, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Currency Plot Steals Savings of Immigrants

BYLINE: By SELWYN RAAB

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1444 words


Yvonne Du, a chemist, believed that she was starting a new career last year when
she was hired as a trainee by a foreign currency trading company in Queens.
Instead, Ms. Du saw her family's savings of $50,000 quickly wiped out.

Zheng Ming Hu, a chef at a Manhattan restaurant, invested $26,000 with the same
Kew Gardens company after a friend promised him a huge profit. He lost $24,000
in six weeks.

Both investors were victimized in what the authorities say is a scheme that has
swindled more than $10 million in the last three years from hundreds of Asian
immigrants in New York City and California. The immigrants, mainly Chinese and
South Koreans, were enticed into speculating on the future value of currencies
with unregulated dealers, according to criminal and civil charges brought
against six firms and their top officials. In one instance, immigrants were led
to believe that one of the companies was endorsed by the Chinese Government.

"Some people had nervous breakdowns and several tried to commit suicide after
losing all of their money," said Ms. Du of Long Island City, Queens. She is a
spokeswoman for 57 investors -- one of whom lost $125,000 -- who have asked
Federal authorities for help in recovering their losses.

A Familiar Activity



 Jonathon Gerson, a Federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, said the companies focused
on Chinese immigrants because currency speculation, especially in British
pounds, is common in Hong Kong. "Many people in the Chinese community thought
they were dealing with legal, regulated operators," he said.

Complaints about possible widespread frauds reached Federal authorities last
year, and since December, the Federal Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
Federal prosecutors have obtained court injunctions to close four companies in
Queens, one in Manhattan and one in Alhambra, Calif.

The commission is responsible for enforcing Federal laws covering futures
contracts -- the delivery of a specified quantity of a commodity at a designated
time at an agreed upon price. It has accused the closed firms of violating laws
by operating as unregistered commodity dealers.

Essentially, Federal investigators said, the companies misled investors by
assuring them they would buy foreign currency only when the price of that
currency was declining in value against the United States dollar and would later
sell the currency when its price rose.

It Began With a Job



 The charges in the criminal and civil cases assert that the companies -- some
working independently, while others were connected -- used these tactics:

*Brokers, who were called account executives, were recruited through
advertisements in Chinese- and Korean-language newspapers offering jobs as
trainees with salaries of $600 a week and commissions on transactions from
accounts the newcomers obtained. As a condition of hiring, however, applicants
had to open accounts for themselves or their families of at least $5,000.

*Employees were given rudimentary training in currency trading and were paid
only if they brought in other investors with minimum accounts of $10,000. The
firms specialized in a practice known as churning, frequent and meaningless
trades to generate large commissions and interest charges for the companies.

*Misleading financial statements were given to customers indicating they were
making profits while their accounts actually were being depleted. The companies
often pressed clients to increase their investments by warning them that because
of sudden losses, their accounts would be worthless unless they immediately
covered their margins, or debts.

*Many investors said they were lured into investing by friends and acquaintances
who were account executives and who claimed they had reaped huge profits for
themselves and their clients. Five Chinese faculty members at the State
University at Stony Brook, L.I., said they lost from $9,000 to $40,000 each
after being persuaded to invest by a graduate student in mathematics who was
working for one of the unregistered currency-trading companies.

*Prospective investors were given promotional materials in Chinese stating that
investments could be doubled or tripled in a year, with little risk. But
clients, most of whom spoke no English, signed investment contracts that were
written in arcane English and absolved the companies of liability.

No Investment Made



 Elizabeth Rodriguez, a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent, said in a court
affidavit that the World Bullion Company of Flushing, Queens, and the United
Bullion Company of Manhattan, jointly owned concerns, reported to 500 clients
that their money was being invested in futures trades.  In fact, Ms. Rodriguez
asserted, millions of dollars in investments were simply transferred to bank
accounts in Hong Kong that had been opened in the names of relatives of
officials of the New York companies.

The World and United Companies and an affiliated company, the Profitable Bullion
Company of Alhambra, Calif., siphoned about $4 million from their clients in the
last two years, Federal prosecutors said.

Seven officials of the three companies were indicted in March on wire fraud
charges in Federal District Court in Brooklyn. Five have pleaded not guilty and
two are being sought as fugitives.

The Commodity Commission, in a complaint against the Pacific Bullion Company and
the Global Bullion Company, jointly owned concerns in Whitestone, Queens, said
that 99 percent of the $2.7 million funneled into the firms by investors last
year had vanished.

In a fraud complaint against the Standard Forex Company of Kew Gardens, the
commission cited $3.8 million in losses reported by 200 investors, ranging from
$5,000 to $125,000.

Overseas Links Claimed



 All 23 officials and traders named as defendants in the civil cases brought by
the commission have denied wrongdoing. None of the cases in Federal District
Court in Brooklyn have been scheduled for trial.

Each company implicated in the criminal and civil cases claimed in
advertisements that it was affiliated with stock and currency trading companies
in Hong Kong or with overseas agenices of the Government of China. The China
Venturetech Investment Corporation, a company owned by the Government of China,
was a partner in the Standard Forex Company.

Janet Kosman-Rose, a Commodity Commission senior attorney, said in a court brief
that China Venturetech received $170,000 in consultant fees last year from
Standard Forex and was a partner in the firm. But officials of China Venturetech
contended in depositions that their company lost a $150,000 investment in
Standard Forex and that they were only passive investors and had no involvement
in the trading operations.

China Venturetech officials also are challenging the commission's jurisdiction
to regulate currency exchange transactions.

Ms. Du, who is 47 and who immigrated to the United States in 1985 with her
husband and son, was unable to find a full-time job as a chemist, and so took
the trainee position. She said she believed her job and $50,000 investment with
Standard Forex were secure because the company was associated with China
Venturetech.

Fear of Complaining



 "I grew up in a socialist country where everyone listens to the government,"
she said in an interview. "The people at Standard Forex said why keep your money
in the bank for 2 or 3 percent interest when you can double and triple it, and
the Chinese Government is behind it."

Many investors, after losing their money, were fearful of complaining to the
authorities or acknowledging their loses, fearing retaliation from the Chinese
Government if they returned to China, Ms. Du said. "But I went to the F.B.I. and
told them what was going on," she added. "Many of us are desperate for help from
the American Government."

Samuel F. Abernethy, a court-appointed receiver, said most of the funds from the
closed companies had been wired to Hong Kong and it was unclear how much could
be recouped.

Prosecutors and commission investigators said that other currency trading
companies apparently are operating in the New York City area and in California
and that they might be trying to expand into non-Asian markets. Carl L. Tendler,
a Manhattan antique-furniture dealer, said that last year he met an account
executive for a currency trading company in Flushing who persuaded him to invest
$15,000.

"In three months, boom!" he said. "They cleaned me out of $11,800 before I found
out they were making numerous trades without my approval and that they were not
regulated. I knew it was gamble, but it was really a loaded crap game."

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: In three years, hundreds of Asian immigrants in New York City
and California have lost more than $10 million by investing in the future value
of currencies with unregulated dealers. Zheng Ming Hu, a chef in Manhattan, was
promised a great profit and invested $26,000. He lost $24,000 in six weeks.
(Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times); "Some people had nervous breakdowns and
several tried to commit suicide after losing all of their money," said Yvonne
Du, who lost her family's savings of $50,000. She is a spokeswoman for 57
investors. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. 31)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 27, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Accused Sheik Last Year Of Inciting Violence in Egypt

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 680 words


A State Department report on Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman issued last year found that
while the Islamic cleric had never been placed at the scene of violence
committed by his supporters, "the evidence shows a clear pattern of encouraging
others to commit violent acts against Christians in Egypt and against others."

The report by the State Department's Bureau of Human Rights and Humanitarian
Affairs was submitted to a Federal immigration judge in October 1992 -- four
months before the bombing of the World Trade Center -- in response to Mr. Abdel
Rahman's request for political asylum in the United States. The asylum request
was considered and rejected in closed proceedings.

The report was filed in Federal court in recent days, and quoted publicly for
the first time yesterday in legal papers filed by United States Attorney Mary Jo
White in response to Mr. Abdel Rahman's challenge to his recent detention in
Federal prison on immigration charges.

The legal papers submitted by Ms. White's office also referred to a second,
classified report summarizing the cleric's continuing involvement in terrorist
activities, "which would have detrimental . . . security consequences for the
U.S. Government."

Barbara Nelson, the lawyer for Mr. Abdel Rahman, disputed the State Department's
characterization of the sheik. "They say all these things but there's nothing to
substantiate it," she said.

A Radical 'Prince'

The State Department identified Mr. Abdel Rahman, a self-exiled Egyptian who is
a spiritual leader of many of the suspects in the bombing of the World Trade
Center and a second plot to bomb other targets in New York, as the founder of
the Islamic Group, and said he is also known as the "mufti of al-Jihad," another
militant Islamic organization active in Egypt.

The report said that since the early 1980's the Islamic Group had provoked
"literally hundreds of violent incidents." And it said that in one case -- the
murder of a secular Egyptian human-rights advocate, Dr. Faraj Fuda -- an
assassin had told the Cairo publication Al Mussawar that he took his orders from
several "princes" of the Islamic Group, including Mr. Abdel Rahman.

The State Department also said that it had been "established beyond any doubt"
that Mr. Abdel Rahman told the assassins of the Egyptian President Anwar
el-Sadat that it was Islamic law to eliminate a leader who did not rule by God's
precepts.

Although Mr. Abdel Rahman was acquitted of charges that he ordered the 1981
killing of Mr. Sadat, the State Department attributed the acquittal to a judge's
finding that the cleric had made statements relevant to the case under torture,
and to "a possible fear by the court" that a conviction would inflame his
followers.

The legal papers filed yesterday also revealed for the first time some of Mr.
Abdel Rahman's own statements to an immigration judge, noting that he testified
that "the people" should "rise" up against governments and leaders that do not
apply Islamic law. The United States Attorney's office said he declined to rule
out "assassination or murder" as a way to remove such leaders.

Mr. Abdel Rahman entered the United States in the summer of 1990 with a visa
that the State Department says was mistakenly issued by the United States
Embassy in the Sudan. He was granted permanent residency status in 1991 as a
religious worker in what the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
characterized as another error. His residency status was removed in March 1992,
and a federal immigration judge refused him political asylum last March.

Mr. Abdel Rahman denounced the trade center bombing and has said he had no
connection to either conspiracy. And while Justice Department officials have
said they believe Mr. Abdel Rahman was aware of the bomb plots, he has not been
charged in either case.

On July 2, he surrendered to federal authorities who detained at the Federal
prison in Otisville, N.Y., pending the final resolution of his immigration case.
His lawyers have appealed his detention, arguing that he presents no threat to
the public.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 30, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

OUR TOWNS;
Immigrant Roots Aside, Town Pulls In Borders

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 854 words

DATELINE: PALISADES PARK, N.J.


IT is evening in summer, the men are home from work, and the glimpses through
apartment doors held open to cross breezes along the hall of 24 East Columbia
Avenue show what is bothering people around here: beds in the front room; beds
too, presumably, beyond the head-high partition that divides the room at
midpoint.

The men who live there are Guatemalan day laborers, many of them in the country
illegally or in the semi-legal twilight of claims of asylum, deportation
hearings, appeals. Each morning, they shape up in their hundreds along the
Columbia Avenue curb, from Pete's Pub to Gardners Delicatessen, hoping a
contractor will nod them into the back of a pickup truck for a day's work.

The presence of the immigrant laborers has brought Palisades Park face to face
with the cultural and political predicaments that have come to communities
around the country wrapped in the unfamiliar languages and exotic dress of the
late 20th-century's third world diaspora.

Like other Americans, the old families of Palisades Park revere their own
immigrant roots, but that was then. They like some of today's immigrants, too --
the impeccable Koreans, for instance, who preceded the Guatemalans and , unlike
the newcomers, settled in with their families, spruced up the stores along Broad
Avenue, joined churches, and had children who raised the S.A.T. scores at
Palisades Park High School.

It is the Guatemalans people have a problem with.

"You rent one of them an apartment, pretty soon there are five or six more
living in there," said Angel Colon, a native of Puerto Rico and the
superintendent at 24 East Columbia. "The guy who signed the lease, you never see
him again. It's -- " his voice trailed off, a silent statement of both
puzzlement and rebuke.

"It's like living in a hotel," a woman declared as she entered another crowded
apartment building, at 22 Henry Street. "There are these people in and out all
the time, you never know if they belong here or not. It's terrible."

"I know what people," her little girl, 3 at most, chirped in a coy,
I-have-a-secret voice. "Him!" And she pointed happily in the face of Gilberto De
La Roca, a 30-year-old from the town of Pancaich, who was waiting for someone
with a key to let him in to the apartment he shares with three other men in the
same building.

Mr. De La Roca, at once not comprehending but understanding, looked away. "We
know they do not like us," he said in Spanish.

"We don't understand the words," he said, touching his forehead, "but we know
know what they mean." And he touched his heart.

On July 20, the borough of Palisades Park enacted ordinance 1177, forbidding
more than two adults from occupying a room and setting a minimum area of 50
square feet per occupant thereof. The law was prompted by two fires last
Christmas, one of them injuring a child, during which firefighters found
themselves fighting a blaze in a warren of partitioned-off sleeping areas
crowded with men.

The law was for safety, said Mayor William Maresca but he acknowledged that it
was also about those people. Yes, the law will displace some of the Guatemalans,
Mr. Maresca said, and that is what many voters want to see happen. Yet the Mayor
clearly felt a conflict in his heart as well.

"Right from the start, I want you to know we're talking about people who are
very decent people," the Mayor said of the Guatemalans. "When I was a kid and my
parents separated, we moved in with relatives in a cold-water flat in West New
York, so what these people are doing, that's what happened in my life, too. "

The first Americans in many families arrived poor and crowded together and
willing to take any job, the Mayor agreed -- people like his grandfather when he
came from Sorrento. But that was then, and this is now, people are telling the
Mayor.

"I have had some very emotional people tell me, 'Mayor, I don't want my daughter
walking to school with them standing there, waiting for work,' " Mr. Maresca
said. "Abraham Lincoln said you've got to protect your borders, and we here have
an overflow of people coming in, and we have to change that."

Undeniably, the Guatemalan laborers who have crowded into apartments are
different from the Mayor's grandfather and the broad tradition of immigration as
well: they have no wives with them, and they are not making long-term plans to
settle permanently.

"We have done very well with the Koreans," the Mayor said. "But I don't think
these men intend to do that."

Mr. De La Roca is unmarried but is supporting two children in Guatemala, and he
conceded that he did not now have plans to settle permanently. That could change
if he could find steady work, he said. There are plenty of jobs in Tennessee, he
has heard, and the immigration people leave you alone there.

But first, Mr. De La Roca has to get past a hearing next month on his claim for
political asylum. He worries that the account of political persecution he must
retell may not match the one he gave more than a year ago.

"Has it been worth it? Not yet," he said of his sojourn in America. "For now, I
don't have anything to show for it."

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drawing

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  August 1, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

On Sunday;
Muslims Resent the Stain Left By 'That Gang'

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 818 words

DATELINE: JERSEY CITY


EVEN before the mosque closed down it had seemed emptier, its possibilities
paler, once Sheik Omar Abdel Rahman was taken off the streets by immigration
officials and confined, along with his talent for fiery rhetoric, over in New
York in an upstate jail cell.

"There's such a bad feeling, a suspicion that this place is crawling with
informers," conceded Abu Bakr Ali, an Islamic believer, objecting as city
authorities cited a zoning violation to shut down Masjid al-Salam soon after the
cleric was silenced. "The media has painted our mosque as a cell of terror."

The masjid is the innocuous-looking, walk-up mosque tucked above the tattered
storefronts of Kennedy Boulevard. It is a simple hall that became Mr. Abdel
Rahman's most headlined forum as he stoked the fervor of a group of
fundamentalist immigrants, some of whom now await trial, accused as principals
in the terror bombing and conspiracy plots, which will go to trial this fall in
Manhattan, on the eastern horizon.

The mosque served as the backdrop for scores of breathless live television
reports when details of the terror plots unfolded across the months. Any
hyperbole seemed pointless in the face of fantastic yet actual deeds and
allegations of ever more perilous conspiracies. In these, Mr. Abdel Rahman was
always a teasing presence. Ultimately, he was formally accused of nothing more
than an immigration violation.

Now, the second-floor mosque seems a struck stage set. Bargain shoppers go past
on the weary boulevard of a city that is one of the nation's richest in polyglot
life. But faith survives, of course, and the mosque's faithful, who extend
beyond the cleric's group of adherents, have plans to reopen the masjid in a
properly rezoned warehouse in the western part of the city.

"Right now, we're afraid of that gang," one of the city's Middle Eastern
immigrants complained. He did not give his name for fear of retaliation, and
expressed concern that the average American, inundated with bomb-plot news,
cannot tell an honest immigrant from a fanatic terrorist and may be losing the
patience to try.

This is at the heart of the tensions becoming more obvious among the area's many
proud Middle Eastern immigrants. The authorities recently received a complaint
from Egyptian Christian taxicab drivers at Newark International Airport that
fundamentalist Muslims had taken over the cabbies' snack shack for a speech by
another militant sheik, who outlined strategies for converting the United States
to Islam.

Explanations of the glories of free speech have not been comfort enough lately
for some complaining drivers or others of an earlier generation intent on
succeeding at a quieter, more grateful immigration, one with fewer glances back
at homeland politics and vendettas.

"Everybody is worried about our good names, our hard-earned reputations," said
George S. Youssef, an accountant well known in the city for working hard for
more than 20 years at his office next door to the old mosque. "In America, not
everyone is familiar with the differences between an Egyptian, a Syrian, an
Arab, a non-Arab and all the other Middle Eastern cultures," he noted, fearful
that bias might undo decades of progress and respect by the innocent.

"All of a sudden we are all Arabs, discovering that if anyone among us commits
an act against the peace of the United States, then everybody in the community
is under the ax," Mr. Youssef said.

But bias cuts in many directions in America. In conversation, some Egyptian
Christians here cannot resist privately mocking some Muslims' tradition of
polygamy or the fundamentalists' denunciations of the Pyramids themselves as
sacrilegious icons. Some ordinary Muslims bitterly resent the street jokes
directed at their children about "do-it-yourself bomb kits."

"And why is there so much talk in this country of 'Islamic fundamentalist
crimes,' but never of 'Christian crimes?' " demanded one newcomer, Alaa
Mostaffa, crestfallen at the incarceration of his sheik and the closing of his
mosque here amid the heedless bustle of Kennedy Boulevard.

Through all confusion and heat evident on the street, there is still a joy to
freedom in America, said Fouad Fahmy Shafik, a naturalized citizen and political
professor and interpreter. But when he works as a translator at trials and
immigration hearings, he said, he sees that freedom being increasingly abused.

"I put the whole blame on the Federal Government," he said, clearly American
enough to demand more of his country. "Terrorists are crossing absolutely open
borders to hold us as hostages in this great country," Mr. Shafik insisted. His
anger and concern, registered in this city teeming with newcomers, prompted
fresh thoughts of the Statue of Liberty, just off in the harbor to the east,
with all the boldness and risk implicit in her ever welcoming new waves of
immigrants, "wretched refuse" included.

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 10, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

NEWS SUMMARY

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 961 words



International    A2-11

EUROPE CONFRONTS IMMIGRATION

Western European nations recognize that immigration is probably the most
explosive problem they face, and they are taking drastic steps to fend off
unwanted foreigners.  A1

NATO BACKS AIR STRIKES

NATO approved a plan for air strikes that could come in response to Serbian
military actions in Bosnia, but said such missions would come only after
specific approval by the U.N. Secretary General.  A1

Bosnia's leader linked his return to talks to a Serbian pullback.  A2

There were no signs that Bosnian forces had begun a withdrawal.  A3

Another U.S. official has resigned in protest over policy on Bosnia.  A2

A wounded 5-year-old Bosnian girl is evacuated to Britain.  A3

PROBLEMS FOR TRADE PACT

Washington's low-key support of the North American Free Trade Agreement has
angered its supporters, who say the White House has made passing it more
difficult.  A1

IN SOMALIA, U.S. FACES HURDLE

The U.S. said it would not be able to withdraw American troops from Somalia as
long as supporters of Gen. Mohammed Farah Aidid remain a disruptive political
and military force there.  A1

U.S. AGENT SLAIN IN EX-SOVIET AREA

A U.S. diplomat was shot and killed in former Soviet republic of Georgia, and he
was later identified by officials as a 45-year old C.I.A. agent who was born in
Oklahoma.  A6

POPE HEADS FOR JAMAICA, MEXICO

Pope John Paul II offered no hint of compromise on issues like abortion as he
set off for Jamaica and Mexico before traveling to Denver for World Youth Day.
A7

Lebanese troops were sent to sites near Israel's buffer zone.  A10

Palestinian delegates met with P.L.O. leaders.  A11

Baghdad Journal: Larger-than-life portraits of the leader.  A4

National    A12-16, B8

PLANNING TO RAISE GRAZING FEES

The Clinton Administration announced plans to more than double grazing fees for
ranchers who use Federal land, the first step toward reshaping Western land
policy.  A1

MIDWEST FLOOD EBBS

The worst is over in the great flood of '93: The crest rolled down the
Mississippi past Cairo, Ill., and from there south the waters pose much less of
a danger. Now comes the big clean-up.A1

ACCIDENT SPURS SAFETY FEARS

A hot-air balloon crash that killed six people in Colorado has called attention
to the substantial growth of the sport.  A12

ACCORD ON NUCLEAR FUEL

The Department of Energy said it had negotiated a compromise between the State
of Idaho and the Navy to allow spent fuel from nuclear-powered ships to be
stored on Federal land there.  A12

SELLING HEALTH PLAN

Hillary Rodham Clinton tried to appeal to hospital executives by telling them
the President's plan to overhaul health care would clear the way for hospitals
to share technology or form other networks.  A14

With little fanfare, Medicare was cut substantially in the budget.  A14

SEEKING BUDGET SUPPORT

President Clinton opened a drive to convince the American public of what he
narrowly managed to convince Congress last week: that his budget package was
worthy of their support.  A16

Taos Journal: A New Mexico town tries to rehabilitate a hero.  A12

A Federal judge delayed release of Watergate tapes.  A14

Metro Digest    B1

HARD WAY TO STOP BIRDS

How do you keep gulls from fouling water? Other cities have covered reservoirs
with plastic, like a tent. But this is New York, and so officials want to use
concrete, the equivalent of building a pyramid.  A1

Business Digest    D1

Science Times    C1-12

A new kind of lightweight rocket waits in the wings.  C1

Scientist at Work: Dr. Victoria Foe, developmental biologist.  C1

The heavy hand of Europeans on North America.  C1

New risk factors in Sudden Infant Death Syndrome.C3

What makes beach cusps symmetrical? Two rival theories.  C4

Q&A C8

Personal Computers C7

Peripherals C6

Science Watch C10

Arts/Entertainment    C13-18

A retrospective of George Kuchar, free-form film maker.  C13

Early Eliot poems.  C13

Theater: "Annie Warbucks." C13

Music: Rare improvisation.  C13

Tchaikovsky and Mozart.  C17

Tweaking taboos.C17

Books: "Without Remorse." C18

Television: "Why Am I Gay?" C18

Fashion Page    B9

The return of an American original.

Patterns

By Design

Sports    B10-15

Baseball: Mattingly to finally taste Red Sox rivalry.  B11

Bleach thickens as Mets prepare to talk.  B13

Orioles win eighth straight.  B12

Basketball: Early stress test on Lewis was negative.  B15

Boxing: Bruno and Lewis stage own battle of Britain.  B13

Columns: Moran on Reggie Lewis.  B11

On Baseball B13

TV Sports B15

Football: Doctor clears Giants' Roberts to play.  B11

Hampton displeased over contract stand.  B14

Jets' Jones starts work in earnest.  B14

Favre drawing players to Green Bay.  B14

Hockey: Rangers' Graves gives hand to children.  B11

Sports People B10

Obituaries    D20

James E. Dingman, developer of satellite communications.

Alison Raymond Lanier, an author.

Dr. Ralph W. Sleeper, philosophy teacher at Queens College.

Editorials/Op-Ed    A18-19

Editorials

The school asbestos scandal.

Back to basics in Somalia.

Yankee Stadium comes alive.

Senatorial disruption in N.J.

Letters

Russell Baker: Not so Pleasant Street.

Tracy Kidder: The myth of successful aging.

Madeleine K. Albright: Yes, there is a reason to be in Somalia.

Bridge    C17

Chess    C18

Chronicle    B4

Crossword    C18

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 16, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

California Scapegoats

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 577 words


America's cultural and political trends traditionally premiere in California.
For that reason the growing enthusiasm of California politicians from both
parties for making immigration a scapegoat for their state's many social and
economic ills is alarming and dangerous.

Leading the charge is Republican Gov. Pete Wilson, expected to seek re-election
next year amid spiraling defense layoffs, relentless fiscal pressure, acute
racial tension and growing anxiety about violent crime. The flow of impoverished
job seekers across the Mexican border only heightens the competition for jobs
and dollars.

Despite recent enforcement efforts, the Federal Government seems unable to
control human traffic across the San Ysidro-Tijuana frontier. But the package of
punitive anti-immigrant measures Governor Wilson proposed to Washington last
week would bring no more than marginal relief. And the proposals would do so at
a high cost to the traditional and humane values of this immigrant nation.

Governor Wilson wants to deny U.S. citizenship and public education to children
born in this country if their parents are here illegally. He asks that states be
freed to deny even emergency health care to illegals. He wants a new
"tamper-proof" system of immigrant identity cards. And he wants Washington to
pressure Mexico, in the negotiations for the North American Free Trade
Agreement, for a police crackdown on its side of the border.

The proposal on citizenship would require amending the Constitution and diluting
its proud offer of full citizenship to "all persons born" on American soil. And
the right to public education was established by a 1982 Supreme Court decision.
Congress could, if it chose, enact the Draconian health care proposal. But does
Governor Wilson really want to see emergency rooms turn desperately ill,
possibly infectious patients onto the street?

Tamper-proof identity cards, however, may be feasible and are already under
consideration by the Clinton Administration. And no one can argue with the need
for better policing of the border by Mexico.

Governor Wilson contends that he is targeting Federally mandated benefits that
draw in millions of illegal immigrants. But a more powerful draw is surely the
jobs and wages available even in a depressed California economy. That's why
Washington's most recent legislative attempt to limit illegal immigration, in
1986, aimed at the workplace, imposing penalties on employers who knowingly gave
jobs to illegals.

That law has not worked nearly as well as its backers once hoped -- the
penalties may have been too modest to deter violations and enforcement has been
inconsistent. But in light of the continuing lure of jobs and the near
impossibility of physically policing the entire Mexican border, closing
loopholes and increasing employer penalties would seem the most promising areas
for further action. Yet Governor Wilson has had curiously little to say about
tougher workplace enforcement.

Mr. Wilson stood on stronger ground earlier this year when he requested
additional money from the Federal Government to offset the costs of Federally
mandated expenses for immigrant needs. Although the full amount of his request
was turned down, Washington eventually provided $500 million.

Asking Washington to pick up more of the costs of its failure to enforce Federal
immigration laws makes sense. Last week's foray into nativist demagogy only
makes political mischief.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 20, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

For Haitian Immigrants, Radio Remains a Passion

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 894 words


When Guy Victor planned a protest three years ago to rally Haitian-Americans
against a Federal Government policy that barred them from donating blood, he
estimated that, at most, 2,000 people would participate. Instead, more than
50,000 showed up.

"Sincerely, I was shocked," said Mr. Victor, the former president of Haitian
Enforcement Against Racism, a Brooklyn-based human-rights organization. "We did
not anticipate such a large crowd."

The success of the march across the Brooklyn Bridge to lower Manhattan in April
1990, Mr. Victor said, is largely owed to the Haitian radio personalities who
exhorted listeners to denounce the policy, which they said unjustly stigmatized
Haitians as carriers of AIDS.

Relying on Radio

Haitian-Americans, like many other immigrants who relied on radio in their
homelands, have clung to the medium in the United States as a primary source of
information and entertainment. In New York, where an estimated 500,000
Haitian-Americans live, three stations that broadcast in the New York area --
Radio Soleil in Flatbush, Brooklyn, Radio Tropicale in Hempstead, L.I., and
Radio Verite in South Orange, N.J. -- have become community bulletin boards,
offering prayers, news of Haiti, updates on immigration law and AIDS education,
among other things.

And with the ouster of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide as President of Haiti in
1991 and the effort to return him to power, the stations have become town halls
for political debate among the Haitian diaspora.

"Radio is indispensable in the Haitian community," said Valerio St. Louis, a
talk-show host on Radio Soleil. "They live off the news," Mr. St. Louis said.
"They insist on learning what's going on in Haiti. When we have not given the
news, they will call and ask what's going on."

Sitting behind the microphone recently in the cramped studios of Radio Soleil in
Flatbush, Brooklyn, Mr. St. Louis was inundated with calls from listeners
waiting to discuss the news of the day.

"It never stops," said Mr. St. Louis, who plays Haitian music interpersed with
news. "Sometimes people call because they are upset with the political
situation, and others call just to say hello or want you to mention their names
on the air."

A Powerful Medium

The importance of radio among Haitian-Americans has its roots in Haiti, where
the illiteracy rate is about 80 percent and most people cannot afford a
television.

"In Haiti, a peasant may not wear shoes, but he has a transistor radio," said
Raymond Cajuste, a film maker who teaches at City College in Manhattan and is
the host of a show on Radio Tropicale. "He makes a conscious decision to buy the
radio."

Because they cannot afford broadcast licenses, Haitian broadcasters in the New
York area pay radio stations a fee to piggyback their signals on existing
frequencies. About 100,000 households have paid $75 to $150 for special
receivers or computer chips that enable their radios to receive the Haitian
programs.

Much of the Creole-language programming in the New York area used to be limited
to a few hours on non-Haitian stations. While such programs still exist on
stations like WLIB-AM, WSOU-FM and WNWK-FM, the shows on Radio Soleil, Radio
Tropicale and Radio Verite have attracted the most attention.

Frenzied Debates

On those stations, the issues are debated with a passion that can often reel out
of control. At times the tone of the frenzied on-air debates is more like
professional wrestling than National Public Radio.

"I have been called a Macoute," said Pierre Hubert DeRonceray, referring to the
Tontons Macoute, the private militia that terrorized Haitians during the
Duvalier family's 30-year dictatorial rule, which ended in 1986. "Sometimes they
call and talk about my mother."

Mr. DeRonceray, a reporter at Radio Tropicale, said callers often denounce him
because his father, Hubert Deronceray, is the leader of a conservative party and
opposed Father Aristide in the 1990 elections.

While the programs' formats are diverse, the topics continually revert to
politics, and most of the callers support Father Aristide.

So when Arioste Denis, director of the United Haitian Association of the U.S.A,
a grass-roots political organization in Manhattan, aired anti-Aristide shows on
Radio Tropicale, to many listeners it was like yelling obscenities in a church.

On one show, "Appendre Comprendre," or "to learn to understand," Mr. Denis's
main theme is Father Aristide's political inexperience and the Haitians'
"political ignorance."

"We really don't understand democracy," he said. "Everyone has the right to
express themselves, but we all don't have to have the same ideas."

'Such an Open Wound'

Many listeners say that while the shows provide valuable information to
Haitian-Americans, the hosts should tone down their oratory.

"I have my American habits, but I want the information that is on Haitian
radio," said Oscar Paul, 27, a Haitian immigrant who lives in Flatbush. "I want
the news from Haiti because the political situation now being what it is. It's
such an open wound."

Tamara Jean, 20, of Bayside, Queens, said she listens to Mr. St. Louis's show
every afternoon because it does not focus on politics.

"I wish the others would play more music and do less talking," she said. "But
they are fun and sometimes they can be very interesting."

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Radio is indispensable in the Haitian community," said Valerio
St. Louis, a talk-show host on Radio Soleil. "They live off the news." He sat
behind the microphone at the station's studio in Flatbush, Brooklyn. (Steve
Berman for The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 23, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

METRO DIGEST

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 681 words



NEW TWISTS IN CHINESE IMMIGRATION
 Undeterred by the fate of their countrymen who struggled ashore from a stranded
freighter off the Rockaway Peninsula in June, or by a crackdown ordered by
President Clinton soon afterward, growing numbers of illegal Chinese immigrants
are coming to the United States, immigration officials and lawyers say. But as
law-enforcement authorities have focused their attention on stopping more boats
from landing, many smugglers have turned to airplanes as their favored route of
passage, and have developed new schemes to camouflage the small groups that
arrive by plane each day. A1.

 EMPIRE TRIES AGAIN ON MANAGED CARE
 As Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield sets off on an ambitious plan to reduce
costs by limiting the choice of doctors and medical care for millions of
customers, company officials acknowledge that their previous foray into managed
care has not been successful. But they say that they have corrected many of
their problems and are working hard on the rest. B5.

NEW YORK CITY

RETIREES HEAD BACK TO NEW YORK
 Despite the fear of crime, grime and hassles in the city that never sleeps,
experts say a growing number of retirees are bucking decades-old migration
patterns by moving to New York for its quality of life. Older and sicker than
when they left, they have returned to be closer to family and for the city's
plentiful services. The retirement migration has contributed at least in part to
an explosion in the city's elderly population, officials say. A1.

SEARCHING FOR A KILLER AND A MOTIVE
 In the tense neighborhoods of Crown Heights and Brownsville, the police are
searching for a man who has killed four people and critically wounded two more.
Investigators say they are not able to determine either the motive or determine
how the gunman chose his victims. All they have been able to do is establish,
through ballistics tests, that the same 9-millimeter semiautomatic pistol was
used in the shootings, which began Aug. 12. In most cases, the victims were left
with their valuables. The killer, the police said, simply walked up to his
victims and began to shoot. B2.

QUESTIONS FOR THE BUDGET DIRECTOR
 He still does not get it. Philip R. Michael was forced to resign as the New
York City Budget Director after investigators concluded that he had shown
favoritism towards a company trying to win a city contract. Mr. Michael
maintains that he did nothing improper and makes no apologies for his efforts to
balance the city budget. But the report on the Department of Investigation's
five-month inquiry raises questions about his judgment and the appearance of
impropriety. Metro Matters, B3.

FOUR INJURED IN HARLEM FIRE
 Four people, two of them young children, were in critical condition as a result
of smoke inhalation following a suspicious, four-alarm fire that destroyed their
five-story tenement in upper Manhattan. B3.

REGION

REDEVELOPMENT AND DISRUPTION
 The Butler Paint store in downtown Meriden, Conn., has been in business for 117
years, through depressions, floods and hurricanes. The owner and other downtown
merchants say that nothing has disrupted business as much as the city's $24
million redevelopment project. Last year downtown streets were impassable for
more than six months. This year the city has torn them up again. B5.

A PLEDGE TO BE A GOOD NEIGHBOR
 Larry Hogue, the mentally ill man whose menacing behavior had created fear on
Manhattan's Upper West Side, says he wants to be a good neighbor and possibly a
homeless advocate if officials decide this week to let him live with his son in
Connecticut. He visited Bridgeport while on leave from a psychiatric hospital.
B2.

A NUCLEAR-WASTE ARGUMENT IS RENEWED
 For three decades, things nuclear have preoccupied the sparsely settled town of
Ashford, N.Y., near Buffalo. Now New York State will be losing its only existing
disposal site for low-level nuclear waste, renewing talk of placing the new dump
here, and rekindling old resentments among townspeople. B5.

Chronicle    B2

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 24, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Europe Created Its Own Immigration Problem;
Safety Net's Pull

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 189 words


To the Editor:

Your front-page articles on Aug. 9 and 10 on immigration and welfare benefits in
Europe omit the crucial link: Europe's social security systems make it a perfect
target for foreigners who want an easier life.

There was a time when people from the less developed countries couldn't cross
borders or travel large distances safely, and therefore only those in real
danger would make the journey. Such is no longer the case.

Most Europeans still welcome those genuinely seeking political asylum, but they
are not prepared to pay taxes to support economic refugees. The more dependent
Europeans feel their own jobs and benefits threatened, the more productive
already feel overburdened by the taxation system that so many have grown up with
as an apparent fact of life.

Meanwhile, the real tragedy is that those immigrants who have the get-up-and-go
to seek work abroad are precisely the people required to develop the countries
they leave behind.

Does any of this sound familiar to American readers? If not, there may be
lessons to be learned from others' mistakes.

GILES PEEL
New York, Aug. 16, 1993

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              264 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 29, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

English as a Precious Language

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1266 words


Riverside Church was packed with immigrants hoping their number was up.
Hairdressers, plumbers and mathematicians from Russia, Haiti and the Dominican
Republic, they formed lines that snaked through a cavernous assembly hall, 500
people desperate for the luck of the draw.

A lottery had drawn them to this spot beneath stained-glass windows, but it was
no ordinary cash-prize game. This was a lottery to win one of 50 coveted spaces
in the free intensive English classes offered at the Manhattan church.

In the years before the lottery, spaces were awarded on a first-come,
first-served basis, and the night before registration, immigrants would sneak
into the church and sleep there, in line. Their passion to learn was that
intense, and the opportunities to do so that rare.

At Wednesday's lottery, Bilga Abramova, a 35-year-old Russian refugee, tugged at
the sleeve of a program administrator. "Please, madam, please help -- is not my
first time at lottery, is my third time."

'I Need to Win'

Ms. Abramova switched into Russian: "I need to win, I need it badly. My future
is on hold. Without English, I cannot begin a new life. I do not want to depend
on welfare. That is shameful."

Contrary to some native-born Americans' belief that immigrants no longer make a
genuine effort to learn English, the demand for English lessons in New York City
-- as in immigrant havens across the country -- far outpaces the supply. Very
few immigrants who arrive with no knowledge of English can afford private
tuition, and in New York City, immigrants must wait four months to three years,
depending on the program, to get into free classes. For newcomers eager to move
into American jobs and society, the wait can be unnerving.

Free English classes -- financed with Federal, state and local funds and offered
by the Board of Education, the City University of New York, public libraries and
community groups -- fill to capacity with about 30,000 students a year. But
about 1.36 million New Yorkers may need them, a conservative estimate of city
residents with limited proficiency in English, according to the 1990 Census.
Most classes are open to all immigrants, regardless of their legal status.

"There's not a single English-language program in the city that isn't inundated,
and waiting lists go into years, not months," said Kay Sardo, assistant
commissioner of the city's Community Development Agency.

In New York State, more immigrants languish on waiting lists for adult English
classes than in any other state, according to a study by Beltway Associates, a
Washington consulting firm. The study found about 17,000 New York immigrants on
waiting lists in 1990, a conservative tally since the study dealt only with
programs receiving Federal adult-education funds, and many programs, like
Riverside, have abandoned waiting lists altogether.

To some experts, the shortage of English classes reflects a laissez-faire
attitude by the Federal Government toward the needs of the 800,000 immigrants
legally admitted each year. About half speak poor English or none at all,
immigration experts say. But the United States Government, which has one of the
most liberal admissions policies in the world, has traditionally left newcomers
to fend for themselves -- or state and local governments to pay for their
services.

"Unlike Canada, Israel and Australia, the United States has an immigration
policy but no deliberate Federal immigrant policy, which is a mistake," said
Michael Fix, an immigration expert for the Urban Institute in Washington. "We
need to think of immigrants not just in terms of the costs and burdens they
impose, but in terms of the investments that need to be made in them."

'People Do Want to Learn'

As anti-immigrant sentiment built with the influx of immigrants during the
recession, much hostility focused on what some perceived to be the threat to
English as the nation's common language. But many experts say that immigrants'
desire to retain their native tongue does not translate into an apathy about
learning English.

"I've never run into a single person who said, 'I don't need English, I can just
hide in my neighborhood and get along fine,' " said Heide Spruck Wrigley, who
directs a research project on immigrant adults' English study for the Southport
Institute for Policy Analysis, a nonpartisan group in Washington. "Instead,
there is overwhelming evidence that people do want to learn English and either
can't get into classes or have such complex lives that they can't fit in the
time."

Juliana Loma, an accountant from Panama, applied to English classes in the Bronx
when she arrived in this country. "It was the logical first step, and I didn't
have anything else to do yet," she said in Spanish. Two years later, a place
finally opened up for her in a community college class. By that time, however,
she was working during the day at a garment factory, and at night and on
weekends at a restaurant. The class was a luxury she could not afford, she said.

"It's frustrating," she said. "I'm stuck in menial work because I don't speak
English, and I don't speak English because I can't afford to quit my menial jobs
to take a class."

The Federal Government spends about $300 million each year, through a variety of
financing mechanisms, on English programs for immigrants -- "a spit in the
ocean," Mr. Fix said. In New York City, the combined Federal, state and city
financing for general English classes for immigrants, which is renegotiated
every year, is about $20 million. Some additional Federal money supports
programs for political refugees only.

Shortage of Clout

New immigrants, impotent politically, lack the clout to demand what they need.

"English as a second language, particularly for adults, is considered a
marginalized field, a stepchild in all the various areas of funding and
decision-making," Ms. Wrigley said. "And you're not likely to see a march on
Washington by the students. They're just not in a position to make demands."

There is no typical immigrant student of English. Most believe that learning
English will help them find a decent job. But some are grandparents who feel
alienated from their English-speaking grandchildren, and some parents tired of
the imbalance of power in their homes that results from relying on their
children as interpreters. Still others want to learn English to negotiate with
landlords, police officers or welfare officials, or to participate more fully in
their new culture.

"Where I live, in Borough Park, nobody speak English, only Hebrew, Yiddish,
Russian," Iana Skylarevich, a Russian immigrant, said in halting English. "I
hear English only on TV, never in street. So I am not in America. Yet."

Aura Kevalier, a Dominican doctor, agreed. "I'm enjoying a mountain of things
here, but without English, I'm trapped outside all the opportunities I came
for," she said in Spanish. "I'm not going to stay here if I have to stand on a
street corner and sell flowers. No way."

To avoid pandemonium, there was no public drawing at the Riverside Church
lottery. Instead, winners were chosen privately and informed by postcard.

Ms. Abramova, on her third try, did not get lucky. And because in September she
will have been in the United State for a year, she will no longer be eligible
for the program, which serves only immigrants in their first year. She will now
have to search elsewhere for language instruction. And she will have to delay,
for the moment, her aspirations of a new career.

"I am a barber," she said. "But I truly want to go into medicine."

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riverside Church in Manhattan was packed on Wednesday with 500
immigrants, all of them hoping to win a special lottery for 50 coveted spaces in
the free intensive English classes that are offered at the church. (Angel
Franco/The New York Times) (ph. 29); The demand for English lessons in New York
City, as in other immigrant havens across the country, far outpaces the supply.
In New York, immigrants must wait from four months to three years, depending on
the program, to get into free classes. Joseph Lihota taught a class on Wednesday
at Riverside Church. (Angel Franco/The New York Times) (pg. 34)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              265 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 August 30, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

More Sought After Raid On Smugglers

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1036 words


In the final thrust of a major strike against Asian organized crime,
law-enforcement authorities said last night that they were searching for six
more associates of a powerful gang leader arrested in Hong Kong on Friday who
was deeply involved in smuggling Chinese immigrants into the United States.

The sweep has already netted 19 suspects, 6 of whom were arrested during a
burial ceremony on Saturday at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn and 5 of whom
were already in prison on other charges. The raids followed the Hong Kong arrest
of Guo Liang Chi, the reputed leader of the Fuk Ching gang, whom one
law-enforcement official referred to as "the crown jewel in this operation."

The arrest of Mr. Guo, 27, was the culmination of a two-year operation by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation that was originally intended to find drug
traffickers, said the officials, who insisted on anonymity. However, its focus
turned to immigrant smuggling and intensified in recent months after the Golden
Venture beached off Queens in the early morning of June 6. The ship was crammed
with Chinese immigrants, and 10 died trying to swim ashore.

Mr. Guo was arrested on Friday night in a private residence in Hong Kong by the
Royal Hong Kong Police at the request of the F.B.I. One official said Mr. Guo's
presence in the British colony came to the attention of the police after he was
spotted in a gambling house losing tens of thousands of dollars a few days
earlier. He carried a passport from the People's Republic of China with a
multiple re-entry visa for Hong Kong. The passport was issued in someone else's
name, with Mr. Guo's photograph substituted for the original, the official said.


2 Murder Counts Expected

F.B.I. officials have refused to comment on the raids but have scheduled a news
conference for 12:30 this afternoon, shortly before charges against Mr. Guo and
his associates are to be released in Federal District Court. But officials close
to the case said the charges would not include alien smuggling linked
specifically to the Golden Venture.

Instead, Mr. Guo is expected to be charged with two counts of murder in the Jan.
8 shooting of two members of a breakaway gang faction in an electronics store on
Allen Street in Chinatown. Officials say Mr. Guo was not present but had ordered
the shooting. One of the intended targets got away and came back to haunt him
later.

His associates are expected to be charged with racketeering, extortion and
kidnapping, said law-enforcement officials, who described those crimes as
typical of a Chinatown criminal gang. But the main impetus in all the arrests,
officials said, was to attack the business of smuggling immigrants. On arrival
in the United States, they are often handed over to lower-level gang members who
make sure the $30,000 fee of passage is paid before they are let go.

Mr. Guo, known to friends and enemies by the nickname Ah Kay, used the Mandarin
Chinese transliteration of his name, Guo Liang Chi, when he first came to the
United States. But he has also used Kwok Leung-kee or Kwok Ling-kay, spellings
that more closely approximate the way his name is pronounced in Fujian.

Perhaps as important as the arrests, one official said, are two crates of
evidence seized by the authorities this weekend at 125 East Broadway, a building
run by the Fujian American Association, a group of Fujianese businessmen. It is
believed by the police to have had extensive dealings with the Fuk Ching gang,
and the evidence includes records of payments that the official said may lead
investigators to other smugglers.

A law-enforcement official in Washington said yesterday that Mr. Guo might be
brought to New York as soon as this week, but officials in New York said they
feared his extradition could take months, if not years. Although diplomatic
obstacles to extradition are considered unlikely, Mr. Guo will have the right to
legally oppose the extradition and to appeal a decision against him.

Several Top Lieutenants

Among those arrested in the sweep were several top lieutenants to Mr. Guo,
including Ronald Chow and Alan Tam, who officials say is the only black American
known to be a member of the Fuk Ching. Mr. Tam, who grew up in Chinatown and
speaks fluent Cantonese, has worked closely with Mr. Guo for several years.

One official said Mr. Guo's father, Guo Chiwu, who is not believed to have
played a significant role in his son's operations, was also arrested.

Another senior law-enforcement official likened the weekend operation to cutting
off the head of a Mafia family. He said it would cripple the gang but not make a
serious dent in the operations of other organized criminals who smuggle Chinese
immigrants to the United States.

Mr. Guo fled to China in January after the killing on Allen Street. Officials
called it only the first attack in a bloody feud between Mr. Guo and Lin Xin
Dan, a feud that would lead to Mr. Guo's undoing. The two once worked closely
together, but after a disagreement late last year over the way proceeds from a
smuggling operation were being divided, officials said, Mr. Guo arranged for two
of his gang members to shoot Mr. Lin and two others.

Retribution in Teaneck

The two other intended victims were killed inside the electronics store on Allen
Street on Jan. 8, but Mr. Lin got away. Seeking revenge, Mr. Lin traveled to
China early this spring to find Mr. Guo, but was apparently unsuccessful, one
official said.

Back in the United States in May, Mr. Lin and six others tried to wipe out the
senior members of Mr. Guo's operations, killing two of his brothers as well as
two other gang members on May 24 in Teaneck, N.J., officials have said. Mr. Lin
and five others were arrested at the George Washington Bridge after they were
seen fleeing in a van.

The Teaneck killings badly undercut Mr. Guo's operations, officials say, and his
grip on the Fuk Ching gang has slipped since then, with many members splitting
up into small factions.

Since Mr. Guo was not present at the Allen Street shooting, prosecuting him in
the case will probably involve the testimony of witnesses or informers with
first-hand knowledge of the event, a New York official said.

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              266 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 5, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Fear and Intimidation Slow Identification of Six Bodies

SECTION: Section 1; Page 51; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 482 words


Nearly three months after the Golden Venture ran aground in June, only 4 of the
10 bodies that were recovered in the aftermath have been identified.

Family members and advocates of Chinese immigrants in New York say that some
Chinese people believe they know some of the victims but have not come forward
to identify the bodies for fear of being caught by immigration officials.

They say relatives of the victims have been deterred by an incident in which two
people who went to the New York City Medical Examiner's Office to identify
bodies were detained by agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
brought into the agency's office for questioning.

"The families are very eager to give the bodies decent burials." said William
Chiu, whose organization, the American Fujian Association of Commerce and
Industry, is helping with the identification process. "But some of these people
are illegal immigrants. They don't want to be deported back to China."

'Knew He Was Probably Dead'

On June 14, a week after the freighter ran aground, Lin Yu Mian, a presser in a
garment factory, and his brother, Lin Ah Liu, a cook in a Chinese restaurant,
went to the Medical Examiner's Office. They suspected that their nephew, Lin
Jian Kun, 21, was among the dead.

"When I saw the boat on TV, I thought my nephew might have been on it," Mr. Lin
said the other day. "But we didn't hear from him for a whole week. Then we knew
he was probably dead." The brothers confirmed that their nephew was among the
victims.

But after viewing the body the two men were handcuffed and questioned about
their immigration status by immigration agents. The agents did not speak
Chinese, but questioned the two men through a relative who had accompanied them,
said an immigration official. Although both live legally in the United States,
Lin Ah Liu was not carrying his green card, and Lin Yu Mian had left his legal
documents at home.

Taken Away in Handcuffs

Both were taken to the headquarters of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service at 26 Federal Plaza.

"They told us they were taking us into the I.N.S. office," Lin Yu Mian said.
"When he asked why they handcuffed us, the I.N.S. agents didn't say anything."

Rosemary LaGuardia, an I.N.S. spokeswoman, said the men had been brought in for
questioning because they had failed to produce identification, a misdemeanor
that carries a fine and possible jail time, and also because the agents could
not communicate with them.

Ms. LaGuardia defended her agency when told about the brothers' anguish. "If it
was part of the investigation for us to identify the body," she said, "I don't
see why they should be upset."

Chinese people and their advocates said news of the incident spread quickly
through the Chinese community, causing some friends and relatives to abandon
plans to come forward and identify the bodies.

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: A week after the Golden Venture ran aground, Lin Yu Mian
suspected that his nephew was among the dead. After viewing the body at the
Medical Examiner's Office, he and his brother were handcuffed and questioned
about their immigration status by immigration agents. (Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              267 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 12, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: JACKSON HEIGHTS - PROFILE;
New Man at Helm of the 115th

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section 13; Page 12; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 562 words


In the last few weeks, Arnold Dansky has moved single-mindedly through the
clogged streets of Jackson Heights, past shops selling Indian trinkets and
spices, clubs serving immigrants from Colombia and South Korea, and newsstands
hawking papers from as far off as Quito, Ecuador.

He is the newest commander of the Police Department's 115th Precinct, with more
than 150 officers, but he rambles about like some small-town constable,
glad-handing residents and merchants along the way.

Of course, the cops ask me when I'm going to get tired and stop walking,"
Captain Dansky said. "But it's a way of learning about this community, and I get
the opportunity to rub elbows with people from all over the world."

The captain knows the city beyond Jackson Heights, too. He grew up in Bay Ridge
and Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, graduated from Lafayette High School and earned a
bachelor's degree from the John Jay College of Criminal Justice.

As a ranking police officer, he has inherited one of New York City's most
diverse precincts. The 115th is a mix of new immigrants from more than 10
countries, each group with its special ways and customs; a large gay population
with a growing political voice, and scores of merchants who form modest but
distinctive shopping strips, like Little India on 74th Street.

For part of his 28-year career, Captain Dansky, a 52-year-old resident of
Smithtown, L.I., has commanded precinct houses in other parts of Queens: the
102d in Richmond Hill and, most recently, the 105th in Queens Village, a modest
neighborhood made up largely of single-family homes. Captain Dansky took command
of the 115th Precinct in June and said he planned to follow the course of his
predecessor, Deputy Inspector Henry C. Roge.

Inspector Roge had already recognized many of the area's strains. He sought to
institutionalize that knowledge in programs like sensitivity training to help
officers deal with problems among Jackson Heights' gay residents.

Captain Dansky said he would continue the sensitivity training and reorganize
community-policing beats, possibly assigning Hispanic officers to Hispanic
enclaves.

"I believe in putting round pegs in round holes," he said. "We have to be part
of the community, not part of some mercenary army that comes and goes."

His approach has already produced results.

Soccer, for instance, can be the basis for both national pride and contention in
this neighborhood, particularly around the time of the World Cup tournament. To
prevent the bar brawls and other unruly displays that are common then, Captain
Dansky decided to visit local bars with a Spanish-speaking officer. They advised
the patrons to enjoy the soccer matches but not lose control of themselves.

"It worked," he said. "As luck would have it, we only had about three arrests
during the two or three days of the matches."

Among his first tasks in his new assignment, he helped organize security for
Queens's first Gay Pride parade, which was held in Jackson Heights in June.

Captain Dansky said that in coming weeks, he planned to continue his first major
project: sizing up his beat, which covers nearly three square miles and has a
population of 130,000.

"It's another challenge," he said, adding, "I would like to leave this community
in such a way that they feel that they are at peace with themselves." RAYMOND
HERNANDEZ

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH



GRAPHIC: Graph: "Crime Report: Jackson Heights" lists complaints for the 115th
Precinct (Source: New York City Police Dept.)
Photo: Arnold Dansky is in charge of the Police Department's 115th Precinct.
(Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              268 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 17, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

At the Airport, Immigration Wants to See Your Palm

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 810 words


In an experiment under way at Kennedy and Newark International Airports,
Immigration and Naturalization Service inspectors are asking a growing number of
travelers to, one might say, lend them a hand.

The experimental program, called Inspass, is meant eventually to automate the
immigration inspections that every traveler from abroad, United States citizen
or not, undergoes.

The heart of the program is a device that measures hands. It produces neither
handprints nor fingerprints, but a series of measurements -- length, width,
thickness -- that, the Immigration Service says, is different for every hand.

The traveler fills out a standard form, giving name, age, address, passport
number and the now-routine assurances that he has never engaged in espionage,
terrorism or genocide, among other things. Then he is invited to visit an
Immigration Service enrollment center, where an electronic reader performs the
hand measurement.

The measurements are encoded and entered into a data bank, and entered, too, on
a wallet-size "smart card" the traveler will carry.

The Hybrid Machine

When a traveler who is already enrolled in the voluntary program arrives from
overseas, he bypasses the frequently long lines at immigration inspection
counters and goes instead to an Inspass kiosk, a brightly lighted device that
seems like a cross between a soft-drink-can dispenser and a bank's automatic
teller machine.

He slips the Inspass card into a slot, and Immigration Service computers check
to make sure that the holder is entering the country legally and is not being
sought by law-enforcement agencies.

The traveler then thrusts his right hand into a larger slot -- the hand reader
-- where small metal pins fit snugly between his fingers. The machine takes his
hand measurements and compares them with the digitalized measurements embedded
in the smart card to certify that he is who the card says he is.

Next, he punches his flight number into the kiosk's key pad. The machine whirs
and dispenses what is, in effect, a pass to enter the United States. In fact it
says, "Welcome to the United States."

Foreigners enrolled in the program get something called a Form I-94 Departure
Record, which they must keep until they leave the country.

Finally, a gate next to the kiosk swings open and the traveler moves on to the
baggage-claim area and then to Customs.

With practice, the immigration part of the process can take 35 seconds, less
than half the time an inspector needs to read a passport, check it against the
agency's records, and stamp it.

Even that does not satisfy some. "Thirty-five seconds is not ideal," said Paul
Erdheim, a supervisory inspector at Newark Airport. "We'd like it to be faster."

Immigration Service technicians in Washington predict that the process will be
considerably faster before the yearlong experiment ends in March 1994.

Volunteers who show up at the enrollment centers are being asked to give an
imprint of their right index finger, along with their hand measurement. Here,
too, it is an electronic picture, not one work of a detective with an ink pad.

"Eventually, we may go with the finger imprint," said Vern Jervis, an
Immigration Service spokesman in Washington. "We have to see how well the hand
measurement holds up."

A fingerprint presents certain problems, acknowledged Mr. Erdheim, the
supervisor at Newark Airport, because it provides more digital information than
most smart cards can easily process. Nonetheless, some countries already use it,
including the Netherlands, at Schiphol Airport near Amsterdam.

Several officials conceded that there is some sensitivity over the use of
fingerprints to identify travelers. "A lot of people are uneasy with
fingerprinting," said one of them, who insisted on anonymity. "They see it as an
invasion of privacy."

Inspass is not intended to do away with passport and visa requirements. It is,
said Chris Sale of the Immigration Service, "a way to facilitate entry into the
United States without sacrificing security."

So far, the program has been limited to Kennedy and Newark, and, informally, to
business people who make four or five international flights a year. Airlines
have cooperated by sending enrollment forms to their passengers who fly
frequently in and out of those two fields. "We want to test it on people who are
used to flying, who will give us good feedback," Mr. Erdheim said.

Citizens of 23 countries who regularly travel to the United States through New
York are also invited to join Inspass -- which stands for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service Passenger Accelerated Service System.

Enrollment centers at Kennedy are in the International Arrivals Building and at
the Delta, British Airways, T.W.A. and American Airlines terminals. At Newark
Airport, the center is at International Terminal B.


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: An experimental program intended to help speed travelers through
airport immigration inspection is being tried at Newark International Airport. A
machine measures the traveler's hand, and the information is matched with coded
material about the person provided earlier. A wallet-size card with the coded
data the traveler carries is then slipped into a slot, and a computer verifies
the card holder's status. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              269 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                September 20, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Abroad at Home;
Cause for Justice

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS

SECTION: Section A; Page 19; Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 720 words

DATELINE: BOSTON


Janet Reno has attracted remarkable public support as Attorney General because
she is straight. She calls them as she sees them, not hesitating to challenge
such shibboleths as mandatory sentences and drug law enforcement methods.

Ms. Reno's attention could be usefully directed now at a six-year-old case that
I think shows the prosecutorial mind at its obsessive worst. The Immigration and
Naturalization Service is trying to push a terrorism clause in the law beyond
its words -- and perhaps beyond the Constitution -- in order to deport two
Palestinians who have not engaged in terrorism.

The case is especially dubious now because of the agreement between Israel and
the P.L.O. President Clinton and other leaders urged support for the P.L.O.
effort at governance in Gaza and Jericho. But in the I.N.S. view of the law, an
alien resident in this country who gave such support would be deportable.

Khader Hamide and Michel Shehadeh have lived in the United States for many
years. In 1987, in Los Angeles, I.N.S. agents arrested them, put them in
shackles and told the press they were "terrorists."

But they were not charged with committing any terrorism. In the deportation
proceedings that have dragged on since then they were accused, rather, of
raising money for a radical P.L.O. faction, the Popular Front for the Liberation
of Palestine.

The P.F.L.P. has indeed carried out terrorist acts. But like many other
organizations -- Nelson Mandela's African National Congress, for example -- it
has been both a guerrilla and a political group.

Mr. Hamide and Mr. Shehadeh say they supported only lawful activities, such as
clinics in the West Bank. And they have what seems to be conclusive testimony
that they have not engaged in violent acts. In 1987 Judge William Webster, then
Director of the F.B.I., told Congress:

"The individuals who were arrested in California had not been found to have
engaged themselves in terroristic activities. . . . If [they] had been U.S.
citizens, there would not have been a basis for their arrest."

How, then, does the I.N.S. justify the claim that they should be deported? It
relies on a clause in a 1990 Immigration Act that makes aliens deportable if
they give "material support to any individual, organization or government in
conducting a terrorist activity at any time."

To be grounds for deportation, then, the support must be for someone "in
conducting a terrorist activity." But in the teeth of those words, as it seems
to me, the I.N.S. says it can deport aliens who gave money to an organization
for the most peaceful purpose if that organization had ever conducted a
terrorist action.

That interpretation of the law is described as distorted and dangerous in a
letter that 60 professors of immigration law have written to Attorney General
Reno. They point out that the purpose of the 1990 law was to repeal the
political clauses of the old McCarran-Walter Act. Yet here, they say, the I.N.S.
would reintroduce the concept of guilt by association.

Giving support to terrorism is a crime in this country. Anyone who aids
terrorism, citizen or alien, should be prosecuted. But it is lawful -- and a
right under the First Amendment -- to support peaceful activities by even a
despised group.

The deportation proceeding is out of synch, too, with the P.L.O.-Israel
rapprochement and American policy toward it. In the I.N.S. view, any alien who
contributed to the P.L.O. to build housing in Gaza now would be deportable. The
good purpose would not matter, because the P.L.O. has in the past committed
terrorism.

But the case has dangerous implications far beyond the Palestinian context. A
Nicaraguan resident in this country who gave money to the contras for a hospital
would be deportable. So would a South African exile who contributed to Nelson
Mandela's recent speaking tour.

A year ago I spoke with a Bush Administration Assistant Attorney General, Stuart
Gerson, about the case. He said, "We'll try to show that they materially aided a
terrorist cause. If we don't, we should lose."

The only way the I.N.S. has tried to meet that test is by defining "terrorist
cause" beyond common sense and the language of the statute. It is time for the
Justice Department -- for Attorney General Reno -- to put an end to this
perversion of justice.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              270 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 21, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Refugees Enrich Our National Life

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 319 words



To the Editor:

In "Immigrants: A Cost or a Benefit?" (Op-Ed, Sept. 3), Donald L. Huddle states
that most refugees are low-skilled and dependent. Our experience does not bear
that out.

Last year, 79 percent of the "free case" refugees (those without family members
in the United States) resettled through our organization were employed within
their first six months in this country. While we do not have precise statistics
beyond six months, we estimate that the employment rate of refugees by the end
of their second year in the United States approaches that of the nation at
large. Hardly a record of dependency.

Our experience is that most refugees are highly motivated, energetic people,
grateful to the United States for the opportunity of a fresh start free from
persecution.

As for skills, some refugees are highly skilled, others not. This is not
necessarily an indication of the refugee's prospects for success or his or her
future contribution to our society.

Consider Thanh Truong. At 18 he escaped forced labor in Communist Vietnam, where
he had been involved in a youth gang. After a perilous voyage at sea in an
overcrowded boat, during which his cousin drowned, Mr. Truong languished for
months in a refugee camp in Thailand before being resettled through our
organization in Minnesota.

Now 31 years old, Mr. Truong is a professor of chemistry at the University of
Utah. He has just been named one of the best young chemists in the United
States. He has received the National Science Foundation's Young Investigator
Award in Chemistry, a $500,000 research grant. The National Science Foundation
cited his research as central to treatments for cancer and other genetic
diseases. "I have two lives," Mr. Truong says. "Thankfully, this is my second
life."

RALSTON H. DEFFENBAUGH JR.
Executive Director, Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service
New York, Sept. 10, 1993

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              271 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 1, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Officials Don't Foresee a Thaw With the U.S. Anytime Soon

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 30


Despite recent agreements with Washington on immigration and narcotics matters,
senior Cuban officials say they do not foresee any imminent advance in relations
with the United States, which have been marked by open hostility for 34 years.

Instead, the Cuban officials say, they hope that by cooperating in areas of
mutual interest, the Clinton Administration will eventually strike a more
positive attitude toward Cuba as it gains a stronger political foothold for
itself.

In an interview in New York, where he was attending the United Nations General
Assembly, Cuba's new Foreign Minister, Roberto Robaina, struck a friendly but
cautious tone toward Washington, taking pains, as other senior Cuban officials
have recently done, to lower expectations of a breakthrough.

"After so many years of tension you don't resolve the problems from one day to
the next," said Mr. Robaina, a 37-year-old who until recently headed Cuba's
Communist Youth League. A dramatic change in relations, he added, "is not on the
next street corner."

A Basis of Equality

"But I want it to be made clear that we are not the closed-minded people that
some would like to make us out to be," Mr. Robaina said. "We want to hear other
opinions, but we also want our opinions to be heard. If we move forward on a
basis of equality, we can arrive at almost anything."

Mr. Robaina's comments, made on Tuesday, came on the same day as an announcement
of an agreement between Washington and Havana to allow the gradual repatriation
of 1,500 Cuban-born prisoners who are being held in American jails for crimes
committed in the United States since the Mariel boatlift that brought 125,000
Cubans to this country in 1980.

Further speculation of a thaw in relations had been aroused when the United
States accepted the extradition by Cuba this month of two suspected American
cocaine traffickers. The suspects had been arrested by Cuban officers in Cuban
waters after a fruitless sea chase by American drug enforcement agents. Under
the Bush Administration, cooperation with Cuba in narotics cases was severely
limited.

Conservative Cuban-American groups and their allies in Congress have reacted
with growing alarm to the two recent gestures of cooperation, the first
significant collaboration between Havana and Washington since the Carter
Administration.

Mr. Robaina said that as long as the Clinton Administration showed "respect for
our sovereignty," the Government of President Fidel Castro would continue to
work on improving limited cooperation in areas like immigration, narcotics
control and telecommunications. He also said that the Cuban Government was
studying ways of expanding "cultural, scientific, sports and journalistic"
exchanges.

A Three-Pronged Strategy

Increasing cooperation in areas like these appears to be one part of a
three-pronged strategy by the Cuban Government toward achieving eventual warmer
ties with the United States. The other parts are increasing visits by
Cuban-Americans to the island and rapidly opening up Cuba's economy to private
investment from abroad and more free enterprise at home.

By removing most restrictions on visits by Cuban-American exiles, senior Cuban
officials have made no secret of their hope of winning the sympathies of parts
of the exile community that are moved by nationalist sentiments or simply by the
desire to help relatives back home. The emergence of more currents like this,
they say, could eventually soften political opposition in the United States to a
diplomatic relaxation.

"This community is Cuban," Mr. Robaina said of the Cuban-American exiles. "No
one can be more interested in these people than us. What have we told ourselves
as we have made contacts with many segments of this community is that even if
they dislike the program which we have carried out, they stand up for many of
the same things which we defend."

By opening up the Cuban economy, meanwhile, the Government feels that it is
doing more than simply averting a disaster by stopping the free fall of a failed
system of rigid central planning. At the same time, it hopes that the arrival of
increasingly large investments from Spain, Canada, France and elsewhere will
prompt American businesses to lobby for renewed access to a natural market of 11
million people that lies only 90 miles from Florida.

Cuban officials are acutely aware that however bold their attempts to privatize
the economy, foreign investment will be hindered by isolation from American
markets for everything from tourists to agriculture and merchandise.

Americans 'Penalized'

"We are opening our economy and many companies are in, but the Americans
themselves are being penalized" Ricardo Alarcon, a Communist Party Politburo
member who also heads Cuba's National Assembly, said in a recent interview in
Havana. "What I am sure of is that these steps and new steps yet to come will
have a positive impact on Latin America and the Europeans.

"What will happen in the U.S.? We would expect it would motivate people in the
business community, but we'll have to wait and see."


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              272 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 6, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Women Seeking Asylum

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 419 words


Do women who have been raped or have suffered other gender-related violence
deserve special treatment when being considered for political asylum in the
U.S.? Their claims ought to be heard with more sensitivity than they often get
now. But increased sensitivity is possible without making gender a special
category for asylum. In this area of refugee protection, the U.S. might well
look to Canada, which offers a reasonable model.

The U.S., like many other countries, has adopted internationally recognized
standards for extending asylum to foreigners. Those standards cover people who
were persecuted in their homelands because of their race, religion, nationality,
membership in a social group or political opinions. Persecution based on gender
can be considered within these categories without carving out a new one.

Increasingly, asylum officials are faced with cases of women who have been
assaulted, raped or mutilated. Such acts have often been viewed as private
transgressions with no political purpose, even when committed by government
officers. That view is changing. The rapes of Muslim and Croatian women in
Bosnia, for example, have been portrayed not only as sexual violence but as the
war crimes that they are. Still, judges don't always display sensitivity when
hearing asylum claims of women.  An immigration lawyer in San Francisco recently
described a courtroom scene in which a judge clipped his fingernails while a
Salvadoran woman seeking asylum told of being gang-raped by guerrillas because
her husband was an army informant.

Earlier this year, Canada adopted reasonable guidelines for assessing women's
claims within the existing categories of persecution. The guidelines urge that
officials recognize the consequences for women who engage in political protest
and activism when they come from societies in which they hold a "subordinate
status." They also urge officials to recognize that some women who have been
raped as a consequence of political activity may be ashamed to reveal their
experience in a public forum and should be allowed to testify privately.

Canada has not opened its doors to all women from countries where women are held
in subordinate positions. No country could absorb all oppressed women. Instead,
its guidelines urge officials to be more sensitive to the special persecution
that women may experience for political activities. Canada's ideas for making
the asylum process more accommodating to women ought to inform U.S. officials as
well.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              273 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
                              Correction Appended

U.S. Looking Ahead to Swell of Cuban Refugees

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 671 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 6


Acting on reports that the Cuban economy is on the verge of collapse, the
Clinton Administration is drafting contingency plans for dealing with a
potential wave of Cuban refugees, officials say.

A new task force of representatives of about 40 different Federal agencies met
on Tuesday for the first time to "look at possible U.S. responses" to a
political crisis in Cuba.

"Cuban society has reached the state of total exhaustion," said a report
submitted to the State Department by experts from Florida International
University. "When Fidel Castro leaves power, Cuba will be bankrupted."

Administration officials said the task force was a "working-level" group and
that its work would "not touch on the basic U.S.-Cuba relationship."
 But the creation of the group is the Administration's first step toward
developing a long-term policy for responding to the instability facing President
Fidel Castro, whose 35-year grip on power has been severely weakened by the
collapse of Communism and the loss of his patrons in Moscow.

Included in the group are the National Security Agency staff, the State
Department, the Defense Department, the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
the Coast Guard, the Federal Emergency Management Administration and the Agency
for International Development.

"The focus will be on the kinds of scenarios that could produce a large
'out-migration' and other things would require a rapid response," said an
official familiar with the planning who spoke on condition of anonymity.

Officials said they wanted to avert a crisis like the Mariel boatlift, which
began when Mr. Castro freed waves of inmates from hospitals and prisons and
allowed them to flee Cuba. The Carter Administration was ill prepared for the
125,000 refugees who sailed for the United States.

One Clinton Administration official involved in policy on Cuba said the group
would take up a 1991 contingency plan developed by the Bush Administration as a
starting point. The plan called for appointment of a coordinator of Federal
efforts to deal with an exodus of Cubans; the interdiction of boats of refugees
at sea; the detention of refugees in processing centers throughout the United
States, and screening for illness and criminal records.

Cuban-American Pressure

An official who attended the meeting said that various Federal agencies were
asked to help update the 1991 report.

In recent weeks some Administration officials have complained that thinking
about Cuba has been stunted by a desire to please the politically powerful
constituencies of Cuban-Americans in Florida and New Jersey.

"People have been intimidated by the political pressure from taking out a clean
sheet of paper and saying, what are our options," said an Administration
official involved in Cuba policy. Some officials say that some kind of dialogue
is needed with Mr. Castro or other political figures in Cuba if democracy is to
be fostered there, despite the objections of many conservative Cuban-Americans
to such contacts.

But, some officials say, a broader spectrum of views is emerging from
Cuban-Americans that is allowing the Administration to start to expand its
options.

Though the Administration has allowed American telephone companies to increase
the volume of calls between the United States and Cuba and permitted more food
and medicine to be sent to the island on a private basis, they say it is
doubtful there will any significant easing of United States economic pressure on
Mr. Castro's regime. "The tough part of the embargo is going to stay in place,"
said an Administration official involved in developing policy towards Cuba.

But American policy makers believe that with the collapse of the Soviet Union,
which provided up to $1 million a day in subsidies to the Castro regime, the
32-year-old economic embargo has been transformed from a symbolic gesture into a
blunt instrument that drives up the costs of Cuba's imports and further drains
the country's meager foreign exchange reserves.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 8, 1993, Friday

CORRECTION:

Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about an Administration task
force drafting contingency plans on Cuba misstated the day of its first meeting.
It was Wednesday, not Tuesday.


                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              274 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 9, 1993, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Traveler Fees May Rise To Pay for Trade Accord

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 965 words

DATELINE: WILLIAMSBURG, Va., Oct. 8


The Clinton Administration is planning to raise $500 million a year to help pay
for the North American Free Trade Agreement, primarily by raising fees on
travelers entering the United States, Congressional officials say.

Mickey Kantor, the United States Trade Representative, said at a news conference
here this morning that Administration officials were in the final stages of
drafting the plan with members of Congress, and would announce the plan in a few
days.

By gradually eliminating tariffs on imports from Mexico and Canada, the
free-trade agreement would reduce Federal revenue by at least $2.4 billion over
the next five years. A provision of the 1990 budget agreement effectively
requires that this revenue loss be offset with higher taxes or cuts in mandatory
spending programs like Medicare, creating a thorny problem for an Administration
that barely persuaded Congress this summer to raise taxes and lower spending to
reduce the budget deficit.

Five Congressional participants in drafting the plan said this week that the
most likely plan would be a sharp increase in customs, immigration and
agricultural inspection fees now charged on airline and ship passengers arriving
from countries outside North America.

Airline Ticket Price

The $5 customs fee, $5 immigration fee and $1.45 agricultural fee are included
in the price of round-trip international airline tickets, and are now used to
pay for the Government's costs in handling incoming passengers.

One of the five participants said on Monday that the fees would be doubled and
the customs fee would apply for the first time to travelers flying to the United
States from Canada and Mexico, while the agricultural fee would apply for the
first time to travelers flying here from Canada. Other participants said today,
however, that the increases would be large but would not amount to a doubling of
the fees.

The Administration has also been looking at the imposition of border crossing
fees on trains, trucks and individuals, participants said.

Administration officials notified the Mexican Government on Thursday that the
White House was considering an increase in the airline fees. There has been no
response from Mexico City yet, said a Mexican official who spoke on condition of
anonymity. The Mexican Government was not notified of any plans to impose border
crossing fees, the official added.

In an interview after his news conference, Mr. Kantor said that no final
decision had been made but that higher customs fees were under consideration.
"There are a number of alternatives," he said. "That's only one of them; we've
looked at 15 or 20."

The Congressional participants also said that no decision had been made, but
that the alternatives were less politically palatable and unlikely to happen.
"If you have to reach into an entitlement, you've got Medicare, disability,
Social Security," which are all popular programs, one participant said.

The nation's airline industry is beginning to lobby against the plan, and is
considering whether to oppose the entire agreement if the Administration goes
through with it. "The industry has been suffering from a tremendous burden of
taxes and user fees," said Edward A. Merlis, the senior vice president for
external affairs of the Air Transport Association, an industry trade group in
Washington that has taken no position on the pact so far.

Mr. Merlis said the Administration could raise $645 million a year just from
airline tickets if it doubles the fees and eliminates the exemptions. Mr. Kantor
said the free-trade agreement would cost the Federal Government about $500
million a year.

The Administration plan must generate money not only for the lost tariffs but
also for the $225 million that the White House has pledged for the creation of a
border cleanup fund with Mexico. The Administration has also been trying to
decide whether to include money in the trade pact legislation for extra customs
officials along the Mexican border and to help American workers who lose their
jobs because of Mexican competition.

Punitive Tariffs Law

Mr. Kantor also indicated today that the Administration might include a trade
law known as Super 301 into legislation putting the free-trade agreement into
law. The law requires the Trade Representative to impose punitive tariffs or
other trade sanctions quickly on any country that persistently restricts
American exports.

An aide to Senator Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who heads the Finance
Committee's Subcommittee on International Trade, said the Senator was trying to
persuade the Administration to add such a provision, and had been warmly
received. But another Congressional aide said the Administration would risk
antagonizing Republicans if it adds Super 301, while most Democratic advocates
of Super 301 are opposed to the free-trade pact and unlikely to be swayed by its
inclusion.

In effect from 1988 to 1990, Super 301 was an amendment to Section 301 of the
1974 Trade Act. The law was intended by Congressional Democrats to be a weapon
against what they perceived as Japanese trade barriers.

Seiichiro Noboru, the economics minister at the Japanese Embassy, said the
free-trade agreement was a trade-expanding measure that should not be linked to
Super 301, which he criticized as a law that could be exploited by American
protectionists.

Congressional rules for the approval of free-trade agreements call for the
legislation to include "necessary or appropriate" language to put the
agreements' provisions into law. In the past, this has been interpreted to allow
changes in trade laws not mentioned in the agreement. But the legislation cannot
include unrelated measures like money for bridges and highways in the districts
of influential members of Congress.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              275 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 15, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

Immigration's Impact On Nation's Resources

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 287 words


To the Editor:

The debate on immigration seems to focus almost exclusively on its impact on
jobs and wages. This is important, but the central issue, almost always ignored,
is the degree to which immigration contributes to U.S. population growth, and
the devastating impact that growth has on our resources and environment.

If left unchecked, further population growth will devastate our living standard,
quality of life and environment. The driving force behind the rapid increase in
our numbers is immigration, pure and simple.

We believe immigration, now over a million a year, should be limited to a
comprehensive ceiling of 200,000 a year, including all relatives, refugees and
asylees. Immigration would then be roughly balanced with emigration and net
migration would no longer contribute to our population growth.

With some 258 million people, our country is already overpopulated in terms of
the long-range capacity of its resources and environment. Yet we continue to
grow at the rate of 25 to 30 million every decade.

If the present rate of U.S. fertility (now being boosted by high-fertility
immigrants) persists and mass immigration is allowed to continue, our population
will reach nearly 400 million by the year 2050, with no end to growth in sight!
Most projected growth (some 140 million in under 60 years!) would come from
post-1990 immigrants and their descendants.

We believe our immigration policy should be an integral part of a national
policy aimed at halting, and eventually reversing, the growth of our population.
That would require halting illegal immigration, and reducing legal immigration.

DONALD MANN
Pres., Negative Population Growth
Teaneck, N.J., Oct. 6, 1993

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              276 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 18, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

New Immigrants Test Nation's Heartland

BYLINE: By DEBORAH SONTAG,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 2093 words

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, Kan.


Its milky white sky sits squat on the plains, a horizon unbroken but for grain
elevators and water towers. At a feed yard off Old Highway 83, cowboys gallop
into the noonday sun, fringed chaps slapping their thighs. Blond girls practice
cheerleading jumps on square lawns adorned by pumpkins. Near a central
intersection, a large sign says simply: Have a Nice Day.

That is Garden City at first sight, stereotypical Kansas, wheatlands and cattle
pens and rosy cheeks. But before long, a second reality grows apparent. There is
a tortilla factory on Main Street, a Laotian market offering Thai videos on
Fulton Street. At dawn, hundreds of immigrants and refugees file into Slaughter
Employee Parking at a giant meat-packing plant.

'A Little New York City'

At nightfall, while locals head to the Grain Bin for Texas two-step dancing,
Mexican immigrants crowd into Saigon, a Vietnamese-run karaoke bar, and
Southeast Asians pack the Pho Hoa One Restaurant, where the fish sauce and lemon
grass are plentiful.

Multiculturalism has come to the heartland, especially to this cow town in the
short grass and sand-sage prairie of southwest Kansas. In the direct center of
the country -- 1,640 miles from the Atlantic and 1,625 from the Pacific --
Garden City offers an ideal case study of the many forces at work as the latest
wave of immigration spills over into the Middle West.

"We've become a little New York City in the land of Dorothy, Toto and Auntie
Em," said Roxy Thompson, an elementary school teacher here.

As in New York City, Los Angeles and Miami, immigration into the heartland is a
story of conflict and accommodation. But in places that have never known much
racial and ethnic diversity, foreignness in and of itself is an issue. Since so
many immigrants to the heartland are uncertain whether they are just passing
through or will stay, the towns cannot tell if their young, tentative ethnic
communities are a temporary challenge or a historic transformation of identity.

In the last 13 years, after the biggest beef-packing plant in the world opened
here, Garden City's population has grown by 42 percent to about 25,500. Most of
the newcomers -- who work grueling jobs as bleeders, tail rippers, flankers,
head droppers, gutters and horn sawers -- are Hispanic and Southeast Asian
immigrants and refugees.

The immigrants have made the town worldly while shaking its stability. They have
ushered in an era of growth while contributing to an increase in crime and
drop-out rates. Privately, ethnic antagonism simmers. But publicly it rarely
finds a voice, because newcomers and old-timers live, work and play in worlds
that barely intersect.

Packing Plants Draw Wave of Immigrants

Eight years ago, Marcial Cervantes, the Mexican-born son of a migrant miner, met
a packing company recruiter at an unemployment office in New Mexico. A day
later, with the guarantee of a $6.70-an-hour job in Garden City, he and his
newlywed wife crammed their belongings into a 1966 G.M.C. pickup and hit the
highway for a place he assumed would be "100 percent guero," -- fair-haired,
blue-eyed American.

But in his first day on the kill floor, Mr. Cervantes looked around with
amazement.

"I hadn't seen so many mexicanos since I left Mexico in 1976," he said.

Immigrants do not end up in the heartland by chance. They are either plopped
here by the Federal Government's refugee resettlement program or lured by jobs
in increasingly industrialized rural America. Meat-packing plants, in
particular, have cut costs by moving away from unionized cities and closer to
the feed yards in areas antagonistic to unions.

When IBP Inc., one of the nation's major food-processing companies, made such a
move to just outside Garden City in 1980, the town was typically heartland.
About 16 percent of the residents were descendants of the Mexicans who came to
work in the early 1900's on the railroads and in the sugar-beet harvest, but
only about 2 percent of the residents were foreign-born.

Unemployment stood at about 3 percent as IBP set out to hire 2,850 people and
another plant began to double its work force to about 1,400.

"At first, IBP tried to recruit all our people from Nebraska and Iowa," said
Duane West, a retired lawyer and former city commissioner. "But the simple fact
is that this is hard, tough work, and farm boys just didn't want it."

The Mexicans, Salvadorans, Vietnamese, Cambodians and Laotians who showed up to
do the plant's dirty work presented no economic threat. In fact, the town
offered IBP a decade's worth of tax breaks, and issued $100 million in bonds to
help finance construction. The meat-packing plants were seen as the key to
future prosperity, and that set the tone for the polite reception the thousands
of new immigrants received.

Garden City is a town that prides itself on civility.

"Basically, there isn't anyone here with the intestinal fortitude to raise
heck," Mr. West said. "Sometimes, when you do speak out, people look at you like
you're crazier than a pet coon. This really isn't a clash-y kind of community,"

Still, while conflict has been kept to a minimum, so has contact between the
old-timers and the newcomers.

"Except for driving down the streets, I don't much notice them immigrants," Greg
Ayers, a 37-year-old cowboy, said. "But now, my boy, he's in the second grade
and he probably has more Mexican friends than Americans, and they're, well, just
buds."

Transients Challenge The Staid Heartland

The Garden City area's past claims to fame were the 1959 murder of the Clutter
family in outlying Holcomb (immortalized in Truman Capote's "In Cold Blood") and
the nation's largest free concrete municipal swimming pool. Now Garden -- as its
residents call it -- is renowned not only as the state's fastest-growing town,
but also as its most cosmopolitan one.

Where else in Kansas would a 10-year-old girl born in Laos and raised in a
refugee camp in Thailand proudly declare that she, Sopha Bounthasen, loved
America and her favorite American food: "Tacos!"

At least 20 percent of the town is now foreign born -- compared with 7.9 percent
nationally -- and 40 percent is nonwhite. New immigrants keep arriving, many
from California and Texas. Some are recruited by relatives, who are paid a small
bounty by the plants. Some come without any job guarantees, gambling that life
is easier in Kansas.

Bob Ma, a Vietnamese refugee, and his wife, Elba, a Mexican, met in Los Angeles,
where they lived from hand to mouth on their earnings in construction and
garment jobs. Now, after six months at IBP here, they own a used van and have
made a down payment on the trailer they share with their son, Richard. The
trailer is already home, with a new videocassette recorder in one corner, a
shrine of apples and incense to Mr. Ma's mother in another.

"Over there, in L.A., it's too wild and expensive," said Mr. Ma, 29."Over here,
it's boring but it's better. The kids play outside on the street, and you don't
worry about gangs and drugs. And you don't got to stay forever. You can save up
and move on."

Indeed, the immigrant population has proved to be a transient one, in part
because turnover in the hazard-ridden packing industry is so high, averaging
about 7 percent a month, said Donald Stull, a University of Kansas
anthropologist.

Tracking new students entering the school system in 1986, a study by Dr. Stull
for the Ford Foundation found that only a third remained in town two years
later.

A rare few immigrants have made a commitment to Garden City, among them, Donald
T. To, the town's first Vietnamese insurance agent, who started in the plants
nine years ago. "I'm trying to put down roots in this area," he said.

But many more cannot see their lives here beyond the immediate future. "If they
can get out and be their own boss, that's a goal," said Levita Rohlman, refugee
services director here for the United States Catholic Conference. "So there is a
lot of out-migration to Texas, Hawaii, Louisiana."

The police chief, Roger A. Schroeder holds the newcomers' transience --
especially the movement of young, single males -- partly responsible for the 54
percent increase in violent crimes between 1987 and 1992.

But, paradoxically, the transience has also worked to keep tensions low.
Absorbed in their six-day-a-week jobs with no plans for a future here, many
immigrants lead a wholly separate life that does not threaten the town's
traditional identity.

Indeed, despite all the change, despite the publication of a Spanish-language
weekly by The Garden City Telegram, despite the Vietnamese-language mass at St.
Dominic's Church, despite the new Buddhist temple, there is surprising
constancy.

The town is still perfumed by dung. It is still adorned by a 40-year-old sign
advising, "Eat Beef, Stay Slim." It still counts only one Asian police officer,
and one Hispanic and one Asian teacher in core courses at the high school. And
its power still lies in the hands of an elite of old-timers who mix little with
the immigrants who tend to live and work on the edge of town.

And sometimes it is the immigrants themselves who keep things segregated.
Recently, 75 Laotians put down $5,000 each toward a 120-acre lot that they
intend to convert into a "Laotown" if the city permits.

A Gracious Facade Masks Latent Biases

One recent afternoon, Bountome Pheuahakphay, who swam the Mekong River to escape
his homeland in 1984, parked his U-Haul in East Garden Village, a mobile home
park built for packing-house workers. Mr. Pheuahakphay had arrived the previous
night from Fresno, where, despite an engineering degree, he had lived off public
assistance.

One night, in Fresno, he had met a Laotian from Garden City, who was in
California to persuade welfare-dependent refugees to start over again in the
heartland, moving at taxpayer expense as part of a Federal program.

"We tell them, 'We guarantee that if you listen to us you will save $12,000 to
$15,000 a family your first year,' " said Roger Vilaysing, executive director of
the Southeast Asian Mutual Assistance Association here. "We tell them, 'It's
easy job, meat-packing, if you know how to sharpen your knife.' We tell them,
'In Garden City, the kids see parents work hard, want to please parents, obey
parents. Not like in California.' "

Mr. Pheuahakphay had nothing to lose, and neither did Oudom Vongphakdy, another
Laotian from Fresno. Mr. Vongphakdy, however, was somewhat unsettled by his
first glimpse of East Garden's flat, unwooded acres on the outskirts of town.
"This looks just like a refugee camp," he said.

In 1987, several years after East Garden Village opened, a new elementary school
was built nearby. Victor Ornelas Elementary was known "with a lot of animosity
as that school for those kids," said Ms. Thompson, a teacher there. When the
school district proposed busing some white children there, parents rebelled. It
was as close as Garden City has come to a public confrontation over the town's
changing population.

Now, the 6-year-old school, spacious and modern, has a devoted staff that prides
itself on adapting to an America that defies the Norman Rockwell image of their
childhood. A kindergarten teacher joked recently about preparing a bulletin
board of student self-portraits, where crayon-drawn faces were decorated with
colored yarn for hair.

"It's not like the old days," said the teacher, Linda Walker. "I didn't need
much yellow yarn, as you can see."

Officially, from the police chief to the grocery store manager who stocks
chilies and peanut sauces in staggering varieties, the town sees its cultural
diversity as an asset. Townspeople proudly distinguish Garden City from
neighboring Dodge City.

Recently, the chairwoman of the Dodge City Commission, Laura Carlson, was quoted
in the local paper comparing illegal immigrants to cockroaches: "If you spray
for them there, they only end up here." She said she had been misunderstood, but
her comment nurtured latent xenophobia, prompting one newspaper letter
announcing the formation of a citizen's militia.

Although such public outbursts are not Garden City's style, ethnic animosity
does exist -- in muttered remarks behind closed doors about the "wetbacks" and
the "gooks," about Wal-Mart turning into "Wal-Mex."

Penney Schwab, Western Kansas director for the United Methodist Care Centers,
said: "If you were able to take a secret poll here, you'd find a lot of closet
Laura Carlsons who have been careful to keep their mouth shut. Garden is not
perfect, just polite."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Many children of immigrants in Garden City, Kan., are learning
at the Victor Ornelas Elementary School. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg.
A1); Despite an engineering degree, Bountome Pheuahakphay, a refugee from Laos,
lived off public assistance in Fresno, Calif. He seeks a more self-sufficient
life in Garden City, Kan. While conflict between long-time residents and the new
arrivals is kept to a mininum, so is daily contact. Cowboys herded cattle
recently at the Reeves Cattle Company feedlot in Garden City. (Photographs by
Jim Wilson/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

Map of Kansas showing location of Garden City. (pg. B7)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              277 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 21, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

York Journal;
A Flicker of Empathy for 110 Chinese

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 701 words

DATELINE: YORK, Pa., Oct.  18


Beneath the autumnal crimson and gold of a maple tree, two dozen men and women
gathered on Sunday for a candlelight vigil outside the county prison at dusk, as
they do each week.

Schoolteachers, computer programmers and secretaries, they came on an unusual
mission: to plead for the freedom of 110 Chinese immigrants inside the prison,
men most had never met, from a land none had ever seen.

The men were passengers on the Golden Venture, the ship that ran aground outside
New York Harbor in June. They are being held in York, facing the likelihood that
they will soon be returned to China and certain punishment unless the protesters
get their way.

"It's not right to keep these men locked up," said Margaret Myers, who in all
her 87 years says she has never before joined a public protest. "They haven't
done anything wrong. They're just doing what our ancestors did, and that's O.K.
with me."

If sentiment against immigration is on the upswing around the country, Mrs.
Myers and her fellow protesters represent a pocket of old-fashioned generosity
toward strangers in a place where it might not be expected.

This predominantly white, Christian town with a population of 40,000 about 75
miles west of Philadelphia has rarely welcomed outsiders. Ku Klux Klan rallies
were held Sunday in nearby Harrisburg and Lebanon. They were unrelated to the
vigil, but still a reminder of intolerance.

"This area is a breadbasket of racism," said Joan Maruskin, a Methodist pastor
who helps organize the weekly vigils. "A lot of people don't like what we're
doing. But that just makes us want to work harder."

The sympathy for the Chinese immigrants seems to be rooted in a sense among some
people here that the new arrivals have been singled out by the Government and
treated differently from illegal Chinese immigrants who arrived before this
year, very few of whom have been deported.

When the Golden Venture arrived in June, and even when the immigrants were
farmed out to York's and other county prisons, it seemed little more than a
passing news item to most residents of this aging town, best known for an event
more than 200 years ago, when Congress retreated here for nine months and
drafted the Articles of Confederation.

But in August, almost all the immigrants' requests for asylum were turned down,
and several defense lawyers accused immigration judges of deciding cases from
the Golden Venture arbitrarily, on orders from Washington. They spread word in
town that politics was interfering in the cases. That, together with a four-day
hunger strike by the immigrants, captured the imagination of many residents.

"People here were kind of shocked," said Craig Trebilcock, a local lawyer for
one detainee. "They believe strongly in the court system, and when they hear
about arbitrary decisions coming down because of some political thing, they
react."

Justice Department officials deny that immigration judges were instructed to
evaluate the immigrants from the Golden Venture on anything but an individual
basis. But they agree that while most immigration cases drag on for years, these
are being expedited as part of a crackdown on smuggling ordered by President
Clinton to discourage those who prey on the hopes of desperate foreigners.

Of the 118 men brought to York in June, virtually all applied for political
asylum. Four won asylum, and four were indicted in a Federal Court in New York
for assisting smugglers aboard the Golden Venture. The other 110 men, aged 17 to
45, were all denied asylum and filed appeals that are pending. Immigration
officials say every Golden Venture passenger whose appeal is turned down will be
deported.

To judge by their comments, some, perhaps a majority, in York would probably not
object.

One man being held, Guo Zhenxie from Fujian Province, said during an interview
in Mandarin that he and the other detainees were cheered, if a bit mystified, by
the efforts of the residents here on his behalf. He noted that in China, where
relations with family and friends dominate life, volunteer work for strangers is
extremely rare.

Only one question is on Mr. Guo's mind every day. He asked it several times:
"Are we going to be sent back?"

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              278 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 28, 1993, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Fear of Immigrants Sounds an Old Theme

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 240 words



To the Editor:

I read with interest "Immigration Hurting City, New Yorkers Say in Survey" (news
article, Oct. 18). Those of today's New Yorkers who worry about the foreign-born
28 percent of their neighbors might gain some perspective by comparing the
present to the first great wave of immigration.

In 1855 the city's population of 630,000 was 52 percent foreign born, and the
electorate almost half foreign born. Ten years later New York was an immigrant
city, and even the electorate was more than half foreign born. Native New
Yorkers complained that immigrants filled the poorhouses and jails, drank too
much, were tools of a papal conspiracy and supported corrupt politicians.

Mid-19th century immigrants were considerably poorer and less educated than
today's. Yet that generation of immigrants had a respectable list of
accomplishments: They worked more intensely than their European counterparts,
fueling the creation of a new economic order; they organized and led the
fledgling labor movement; they fought first for the draft to be fair and then
for the Union in the Civil War, and they showed the whole world that --
impossible! -- democracy could survive granting the vote to men without
property.

Relax, New York, this is deja vu all over again.

AMY BRIDGES
Bethesda, Md., Oct. 20, 1993

The writer is the author of "A City in the Republic, Antebellum New York and the
Orgins of Machine Politics."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              279 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 October 31, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Whitman Pins Hopes On Women

BYLINE: By JOSEPH F. SULLIVAN

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1767 words

DATELINE: TRENTON


CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN, outfoxed at nearly every turn during the summer by the
wily incumbent, hopes to unseat Gov. Jim Florio on Tuesday with a late appeal to
female voters.

In the final week of campaigning, Mrs. Whitman's commercials prominently
featured women, and the candidate began mentioning more often in debates and
speeches that she is the mother of two teen-agers.

Early on, Mrs. Whitman's candidacy was expected to mobilize women interested in
electing the state's first female chief executive. That posed a problem for
Florio campaign strategists, who were worried about how forcefully they could
run against a woman without appearing to beat up on her. But Mrs. Whitman
relieved their anxiety by handing them a series of issues that they could easily
exploit.

Among the first was her admission that she had paid more than $22,000 in back
taxes for two undocumented immigrants who had worked for her. She was also fined
$2,000 by the Immigration and Naturalization Service for hiring the pair. Every
chance he got, Mr. Florio, a Democrat, said Mrs. Whitman, a Republican, had been
"found guilty of violating the law" and "fined by the I.R.S." (instead of the
I.N.S.) for the incident. His comments fed the belief by many women that Mrs.
Whitman was a rich woman who could afford to pay for such things, while they
could not.

By mid-October, the Florio camp had managed to usurp much of Mrs. Whitman's
credibility on many issues important to voters, including violent crime, welfare
reform and taxes.

"She failed early on to establish an identity for herself," said Neil Upmeyer,
president of the Center for the Analysis of Public Issues, a Princeton-based
policy study group. "And that brought about a second problem.  When it came time
to make her sales pitch for her economic recovery plan, nobody knew who she was
and her message lacked credibility."

While Mrs. Whitman was conserving her campaign finances, the Florio campaign was
filling in the blanks in the public's perception of the Republican challenger.
Mr. Florio was able to picture Mrs. Whitman as a willing tool of the National
Rifle Association when she criticized his ban on assault weapons, one of the
most popular initiatives of Mr. Florio's term in office.

"The strongest image of the campaign was a Florio ad that had a picture of her
in goggles and ear protectors that are used by people who are out shooting
rifles," Mr. Upmeyer said. "Without having to say a word, it added credibility
to the argument that she is in the pocket of the N.R.A."

Not surprisingly, independent public opinion surveys showed Mrs. Whitman
trailing Mr. Florio among female voters, and her campaign aides said she must
recapture their support if she is to have a chance of victory.

A recent Star-Ledger/Eagleton poll at Rutgers University found that Mrs. Whitman
was favored by men of voting age by 49 to 43 percent. Mr. Florio was preferred
by 61 to 31 percent among all women who could vote. His lead among Republican
women was 28 percentage points over Mrs. Whitman and among independent female
voters, 11 percentage points.

The poll used the responses of 601 likely voters in reporting Mr. Florio's
margin among female voters. The margin of error is plus or minus 4.5 percent.

A New York Times/WCBS-TV News Poll a few days later reported that Mr. Florio was
preferred by both male (51 to 35 percent) and female (47 to 34 percent) voters.
The poll surveyed 1,153 people, of whom 925 said they were registered to vote.
The margin of error is plus or minus 3 percent.

Of course, last-minute polls, not to mention the election itself, could still
show a large enough shift by voters to give Mrs. Whitman all that she needs.

Legislative Seats at Stake

New Jersey voting booths will be open from 7 A.M. to 8 P.M. Tuesday. Also up for
election are all 120 seats in the Legislature. Republicans hold veto-proof
majorities of 27 to 13 in the Senate and 58 to 22 in the Assembly, which they
won in the 1991 election on a voter backlash against Governor Florio's $2.8
billion tax program.

Hazel Gluck, a co-chairwoman of the Whitman campaign, said no woman has won
public office without winning the women's vote. The question in these closing
days, is whether the renewed appeal to women and Mrs. Whitman's attempt to
define herself in terms of some so-called women's issues come too late.

Susan Carroll, a senior research associate at the Center for the American Woman
and Politics at Rutgers, said the Florio campaign's success in depicting Mrs.
Whitman as someone whose wealth put her out of touch with the concerns of
ordinary citizens kept her on the defensive almost until the end.

Ms. Carroll also said public opinion polls across the country have found that
women are more willing to support female candidates for legislative seats than
for the job of chief executive of a state. "The key problem seems to be older
women voters," she said. "Perhaps that was because they were socialized in a
very different era when there were limits on what a woman could and would do."

She said, however, that Mrs. Whitman "had a real chance to attract crossover
votes from independent and Democratic women, particularly well-educated
professional women." She said this group might have more strongly supported Mrs.
Whitman because she is a moderate Republican, but said her proposal to cut state
income taxes by 30 percent over three years damaged her appeal.

"When her tax plan seemed to be a holdover from the era of Reaganomics, it
became a very difficult thing for progressive women, including some of those
leaning toward the Democratic Party, to swallow," Ms. Carroll said.

Gubernatorial Races Reviewed

Kathleen A. Frankovic, director of surveys for CBS News, said a review of five
gubernatorial races in 1990 in which women were running showed that when the
female candidate was a Democrat, the tendency of women to vote Democratic was
enhanced, but when the female candidate was a Republican, there was no
difference in the percentage of votes cast for either candidate by men or women.

For his part, Mr. Florio followed the traditional Democrats' end game of trying
to energize elderly and minority voters. The appeal to black voters, which
followed an endorsement by a statewide coalition of black members of the clergy,
was channeled chiefly through urban churches.

Some black elected officials, though, including Mayor Sharpe James of Newark,
have criticized both the Democratic and Republican campaigns, saying they have
ignored the needs of the cities. "The words 'urban, disadvantaged or
Afro-American' are missing from this year's campaign literature," Mr. James
said.

He said he understood that in this state the campaign is largely waged for the
suburban voter, but he said the decision not to campaign in urban neighborhoods
and ask residents directly for their support could hold down voter turnout.

If the vote is light in the urban counties, and if Bret Schundler, Jersey City's
Republican Mayor, is able to deliver his city's vote to Mrs. Whitman as he has
promised, then the outcome could be much closer than expected.

Rehashing Tax Issues

The candidates for the Legislature have been rehashing the 1990 tax increase and
the Republican majority's 1992 rollback of the penny increase in the sale tax
that was part of Mr. Florio's package.

Republicans argue that they redeemed their pledge to roll back the taxes through
the elimination of the penny increase in the sales tax, which cut state revenue
by about $600 million. The Democrats charge that the Republicans really accepted
$2.2 billion of the increase by not following through and repealing the balance
of Mr. Florio's program.

In the campaign's last full week, Republican leaders, including Assembly Speaker
Garabed (Chuck) Haytaian of Independence Township, have tried to revive the
public's fears about taxes by contending that the Democrats will again try to
raise the sales tax to 7 cents from 6 cents if they regain strength in the
Legislature.

The Senate minority leader, Senator John A. Lynch, Democrat of New Brunswick,
denied any such plan to raise the sales tax and attributed Mr. Haytaian's
comments to "runaway hysteria."

Mr. Lynch said Democrats should pick up several of the seats in nominally
Democratic districts that were lost in 1991. Much of his optimism is based on
surveys that indicate greater public acceptance of Mr. Florio's tax package,
which the Governor said was needed to finance public schools and close a budget
deficit. If Mr. Florio should win big, something that is far from certain, Mr.
Lynch said Democrats could capture the eight seats needed to regain control of
the Senate.

While Democrats are given an outside chance of winning the Senate even if there
is a Florio landslide, it seems unlikely that the Assembly will change hands
because of the top-heavy majority enjoyed by the Republicans.

Recall Amendment on Ballot

In addition to deciding the races for Governor and the Legislature, voters have
the chance to give themselves the ability to recall elected officials.

The recall amendment to the State Constitution is the only question on the
statewide ballot. It would permit voters to recall officials from the municipal
to the state level after they have served one year in office.

The referendum was a last-minute substitute for a proposed initiative and
referendum amendment that would give the public a direct vote on setting state
policy. After pledging to adopt such a system in the 1991 campaign, Republican
leaders had second thoughts and placed the recall amendment on the ballot
instead.

In the closing days of the campaign, the League of Women Voters and New Jersey
Common Cause, the public interest organization, joined in opposing the
referendum, saying it was probably unconstitutional, would increase the cost of
campaigns since there is no limit on spending for public questions and would
diminish the ability of officeholders to make difficult decisions.

"We already have the power to recall elected officials, on Election Day," said
Lucy Heller, government director of the League of Women Voters. "It is ludicrous
to suggest that voters should judge anyone's performance after one year in
office."

Senator John H. Dorsey, Republican of Boonton, and a sponsor of the recall
amendment, said 168 municipalities and 6 counties already had the right to
recall their elected officials. "It's absurd to deny this right to the rest of
the voters," he said. Residents of 15 other states also have the right to recall
elected officials, he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              280 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 7, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Poverty Is No Excuse, But It Doesn't Help

SECTION: Section 13; Page 23; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 134 words


To the Editor:

Bravo to Michael Meyers. As he says, just because kids are poor or immigrants
does not mean they are dumb. Educational success is in the expectation of the
beholder.

Sadly, too many public leaders would have us think otherwise. This is
particularly true when it comes to the promotion of bilingual programs for
Spanish-speaking students in our school system. These students are not expected
to learn by English immersion. When refugee children entered our school system
in the 1940's, they had no choice: their teachers expected them to learn
English, and they did. Today Asian and Russian immigrants widely reject
bilingual classes for their children, and many of these children have achieved
much academic success. Why the double standard?

MARILYN ROSENBLATT
Manhattan

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              281 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 November 8, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Past Doesn't Repeat In Fear of Immigrants

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 186 words


To the Editor:

In "Fear of Immigrants Sounds an Old Theme" (letter, Oct. 28) Amy Bridges notes
that New York City's foreign-born population was almost twice as high in 1855 as
today, and she lauds the achievements of "that generation of immigrants."

But history does not repeat, and one set of newcomers is not interchangeable
with others. America in the Civil War era was a developing economy with abundant
natural resources and great need for workers. New York's urban complexity today,
with its fragile infrastructure and congested social environment, is hardly
comparable. Among the many differences are the extent of diversity, changed
social values and the need for vital government services.

Back then, moreover, anti-immigrant sentiment derived largely from religious
bias and snobbish natives. Today, it is to be found among working people, often
newcomers themselves, in despair of access to jobs, housing, safety and decent
living space.

JOSEPH BRANDES
Wayne, N.J., Nov. 1, 1993

The writer is author of "Immigrants to Freedom: Jewish Communities in Rural New
Jersey since 1882."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              282 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 9, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Question of Islamic Philosophy Raised at Explosion Trial

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 824 words


A bit of Islamic moral philosophy came up in the World Trade Center trial
yesterday, and so did information on why an immigration inspector at Kennedy
International Airport suspected that a Palestinian was not a Swede, as the
prosecution, countered by a spirited defense, turned its attention to the
movements of one of the defendants, Ahmad M. Ajaj.

Mr. Ajaj is seen as a minor figure among the four men on trial in the World
Trade Center bombing on Feb. 26. Unlike the three other defendants, who are
accused of helping to build the bomb and transport it to the trade center, Mr.
Ajaj is charged with bringing manuals into the country that were used in making
the explosive. He was arrested when he entered this country on Sept. 1, 1992,
five months before the bombing, and remained in jail on immigration charges
until after the explosion.

A parade of witnesses -- from the man who says he took Mr. Ajaj to the airport
in Houston, to the Pakistan Airlines manager who confirmed he went to Pakistan,
to the immigration official who caught him coming back to the United States on a
false passport -- reconstructed Mr. Ajaj's itinerary. The point, apparently, was
to demonstrate that Mr. Ajaj, who was living in Houston, went to Peshawar,
Pakistan, in April 1992, and then returned to the United States on Sept. 1,
carrying a fake passport, using a false name and bearing the incriminating
bomb-making manuals.

Witness Misidentifies Suspect

But Mr. Ajaj's lawyer, Austin Campriello, seemed to get more benefit from one of
the Government's witnesses than the Government did. Another witness, saying she
could identify the person who tried to enter the country under false pretenses
on Sept. 1, picked out a different defendant, Mohammed A. Salameh.

The day started with Mr. Campriello's cross-examination of Omar Obeid, a Houston
resident who testified last week that he took Mr. Ajaj and another person to the
airport in April last year on the first leg of his journey to Peshawar. Mr.
Obeid said that Mr. Ajaj asked him to help him sell his car and to forward the
money to the Peshawar address of a magazine called Al Mujahid, Arabic for the
Holy Warrior.

The prosecution seemed to be trying to establish that Mr. Ajaj was an Islamic
militant. Last week, it showed that Mr. Ajaj claims to have been tortured by
Israeli soldiers on the Israeli-occupied West Bank, apparently to establish a
motive for wanting to attack the United States, Israel's greatest ally.

But Mr. Obeid testified that he had never heard Mr. Ajaj express any anger
toward the United States. Under the questioning of another defense lawyer,
Robert E. Precht, who represents Mr. Salameh, Mr. Obeid said that under Muslim
practice, as Mr. Precht put it, "suspicion is anathema." The idea here was that
if Mr. Salameh, or Mr. Ajaj, had been asked to do things by other people, it
would have been, by Islamic custom, wrong to be suspicious of the other person's
intentions.

The Incriminating Manuals

The prosecutor, J. Gilmore Childers, asked Mr. Obeid whether, even if suspicion
is anathema, he would carry bomb-making manuals into the country if somebody
asked him to. Mr. Obeid replied no.

Mr. Campriello asked what Mr. Obeid would do if he was already on the airplane,
before he noticed that the bomb-making materials were in his possession. Mr.
Obeid said that since it would be too late to return the materials to their
original owner, he would do with them what he had been asked to do.

Through all of this testimony, Mr. Campriello tried to depict his client as a
sympathetic figure whose only crime was to have carried some things that,
although they might look incriminating, might have been intended for somebody
else, or might have been related to Mr. Ajaj's activities in Peshawar or
Afghanistan, not the United States.

An Altered Passport

Mr. Campriello did not dispute that when Mr. Ajaj returned from Pakistan in
September last year, he tried to get into the country with an altered Swedish
passport using the false name Khurram Khan. But, Mr. Campriello maintained that
that was Mr. Ajaj's only illegal action and that he had done that because, as an
applicant for political asylum, by leaving the United States without permission
he had forfeited his right to re-enter the country and could only return
illegally.

At the end of the day, the prosecution brought Susan Betham, the immigration
inspector who interviewed Mr. Ajaj at Kennedy Airport and determined that he was
not a Swede, she said, because he did not look like a Swede and he spoke with an
Arabic accent. That determination led to Mr. Ajaj's eventual imprisonment for
illegal entry into the United States.

It is probably not central to the case, but it was certainly not helpful to the
Government's overall credibility that when Mr. Campriello asked Ms. Betham to
pick out the man she intervewed at the airport, she pointed to Mr. Salameh, not
to Mr. Ajaj.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              283 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 16, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Inspector Testifies She Urged No Asylum for Blast Suspect

BYLINE: By RICHARD BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 665 words


An immigration inspector said she recommended that a man later suspected of
being a ringleader in the World Trade Center explosion be prohibited from
entering the United States when he applied for political asylum at Kennedy
International Airport in September 1992, but she was overruled.

The witness, Martha Morales, testifying in the trial of four men accused of
setting a bomb in the World Trade Center on Feb. 26, was speaking of Ramzi Ahmed
Yousef. Investigators say they believe he was to have been deeply involved in
the bombing, but he left the country hours after the trade center explosion. His
whereabouts are unknown.

Mr. Yousef arrived in this country from Pakistan on Sept. 1, 1992, carrying an
Iraqi passport but no visa. Previous testimony has indicated that he was
questioned by immigration officers at the airport and then admitted to the
United States when he applied for political asylum. The indictment in the case
identifies him as one of the men who ordered the chemicals that were used in the
bomb and helped to build it. Then, on the day of the explosion, Mr. Yousef flew
from Kennedy Airport to Karachi, Pakistan, under the name Abdul Basit.

Some of Mr. Yousef's importance in the case is because of his alleged
connections to one of the defendants on trial, Ahmad M. Ajaj. Mr. Ajaj arrived
on the same Sept. 1 flight as Mr. Yousef, bearing an altered Swedish passport
under a false name and carrying manuals on bomb-making that, according to
investigators, had Mr. Yousef's fingerprints on them.

No Explicit Links Yet

No evidence has been presented in court on the fingerprints or on any explicit
links of Mr. Yousef and Mr. Ajaj. But prosecutors, in focusing much of the
testimony yesterday on Mr. Yousef, seemed intent on eventually establishing
connections between the two men.

Ms. Morales told the jury yesterday that she was the immigration inspector who
questioned Mr. Yousef at Kennedy after he arrived from Pakistan on Sept. 1. Mr.
Ajaj was detained when it was discovered that the Swedish passport he was using
had been altered and his photograph substituted for the original.

Ms. Morales read out the sworn statement that she took from Mr. Yousef. In it,
Mr. Yousef said he was an Iraqi citizen living in Pakistan who had been beaten
by Iraqi soldiers during the 1991 invasion of Kuwait and had suffered religious
and political persecution in Pakistan.

Asked how he had boarded a Pakistan International Airlines flight to New York
without a visa to the United States, Mr. Yousef said he had paid $2,700 to a
Pakistani official who had provided him with a boarding pass. He said he had
traveled alone, and he had given an address in Houston as his residence in the
United States.

Ms. Morales said Mr. Yousef had worn a colorful Middle Eastern costume made out
of silk, with "puffed sleeves" and "harem pants."

Ms. Morales said that a search found that Mr. Yousef had papers indicating that
he was using two names besides the one on his passport. The boarding pass, she
said, bore the name Azan Mohammed. Mr. Yousef was also found to have an
identification card from something called the Islamic Information Center in
Arizona, which had his picture on it but the name Khurram Khan.

The answers Mr. Yousef gave in his sworn statement provided at least two
circumstantial connections with Mr. Ajaj, though neither of them were
specifically called to the jury's attention. One was the reference to Houston,
where Mr. Ajaj lived before leaving the country for Pakistan in April last year.
The other was the alias Khurram Khan, the same name that appeared on Mr. Ajaj's
doctored Swedish passport.

Noting that Mr. Yousef had "multiple ID's," Ms. Morales said that she
recommended that he be detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
She referred her recommendation to other officials who decided to release Mr.
Yousef on his own recognizance and for him to return for a hearing on his
request for political asylum later.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              284 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 26, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

BUSINESS DIGEST

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 694 words



International

Volkswagen reached agreement with the metal workers union on a plan to reduce
costs by putting production workers at six German plants on a four-day workweek
and cutting their pay nearly 10 percent. The plan reflects growing acceptance in
Europe of the idea of shorter workweeks. [Page D11.]

Mexico announced a loosening of foreign investment rules, extending to the rest
of the world many of the rights that will be accorded to U.S. and Canadian
concerns under Nafta. [D11.]
 Russia's oil industry continues to disintegrate at an ominous pace. Western
companies are working, sometimes well by well, to shore up vital production.
[A1.]
 U.S. aerospace companies are trying to help Russia pursue a piece of the market
for commercial aircraft. [D11.]
 After the Berlin wall fell, more than a million eastern Germans emigrated to
western cities while a smaller and less visible group of pioneers moved in the
opposite direction to seek their fortunes in "the wild east." This mixed breed
of Germans has put up with hardships unknown in the west, and their combination
of experiences gives them unusual insight into life on both sides. [A1.]
 About 2.6 million Spaniards collect jobless benefits, but Spain's main business
confederation believes at least a third of those now on the dole have jobs.
[A15.]

The Economy

The Administration will actively encourage legal immigrants to become citizens,
a policy intended to counter hostility to immigrants. The effort could
enfranchise millions of people who have lived in the U.S. for years without
seeking citizenship. [A1.]
 Tourism officials say Florida is unlikely to suffer the economic disaster
foreseen as recently as two months ago, after a series of killings of foreign
tourists. [D11.]

The air in Southern California has become cleaner, and the region's smog alerts
are all but history. But just as other states are emulating its strict controls
on pollutants, California may have begun to retreat on air quality. [A1.]

President Clinton's choice to head Resolution Trust said he was considering
withdrawing because the Senate was refusing to hold a hearing on his nomination.
[B18.]

Cornell scientists have isolated and cloned a gene responsible for disease
resistance in a major crop, tomatoes, using a technology developed for the Human
Genome Project. [A25.]

Companies

Sara Lee has managed to copy in Europe its successful American strategy of
extending brand names. [D12.]

There is finger-pointing in the Paramount camp about whether the company's board
should have held a crucial meeting on Nov. 15. A Delaware court ruled that at
the meeting, the board did not give proper consideration to a takeover bid from
QVC Network. [D13.]

Whether the Delaware ruling survives a review by the Delaware Supreme Court
depends on how the higher court interprets previous cases pitting the discretion
of corporate boards against the rights of shareholders. Lawyers for QVC and its
bidding rival, Viacom, will be arguing before what many experts consider the
most knowledgeable judges in the country on corporate law. [D11.]

Markets

Oil prices fell to five-year lows in Europe after OPEC nations could not agree
to cut output by even a token amount. A subsequent communique strengthened an
impression that OPEC was abdicating its pricing role and returning to a fight
for market share. [D14.]
 Japanese stock prices tumbled today, with the Nikkei index of 225 issues losing
almost 3 percent of its value and closing below the 17,000 level. In Europe
yesterday, the dollar made modest gains. U.S. markets were closed for
Thanksgiving. [D14.]

Today's Columns

A seemingly routine restructuring announcement at Baxter International included
hints that it might sell stakes in some of its exciting but risky new-product
projects. Market Place. [D14.]
 Since realism has become one of the hottest creative trends on Madison Avenue,
an industry of sorts has developed around it, dedicated to delivering what it
hopes the public will perceive as purity amid a world of puffery. Stuart
Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]


LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              285 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 28, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

To Markets! To Markets!

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 2865 words


THE number eight signifies fortune in Chinese culture, and it is along Eighth
Avenue in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, that thousands of recent Chinese immigrants
have settled to improve their lot.

Mostly poor and from southern China, they have created a bustling new commercial
zone packed with chaotic dim sum palaces, fish markets selling blank-eyed
flounder and knots of tiny purple octopus, and stores filled with everything
from soybean drinks to children's clothes printed with slogans in awkward
English. Elderly people gather in the afternoons at the Brooklyn
Chinese-American Association hall to play mah-jongg, while their grandchildren
become roadworthy at the Hong Kong Driving School with the help of
Cantonese-speaking instructors.

Here is the same relentless energy as in Manhattan's Chinatown, but with little
of the congestion, grime and noise. As an advertisement for the Ocean Palace
restaurant declares, "You'll Never Have to Go to Manhattan Again!"

As a vast new generation of immigrants washes over New York, neighborhoods like
Sunset Park are being reinvented according to an age-old pattern: Not simply
places to live, they have emerged as marketplaces for this or that ethnic group,
shopping and eating centers for communities scattered far beyond neighborhood
borders.

The Chinese, to be sure, are only one among the major immigrant groups in this
city of newcomers, settling not only in Sunset Park and lower Manhattan, but
also in Flushing and other parts of northern Queens. Tens of thousands have
come, too, from other lands, from the West Indies and the Americas, from South
Korea and the Indian subcontinent. And, in Flatbush, in Jackson Heights, in
midtown Manhattan, they have created new-world versions of their homeland
markets.

These are new turns on the places New York at large discovered long ago:
Manhattan's Chinatown, Greek Astoria, Arab Atlantic Avenue, to name a few. And
until they, too, are appropriated, these marketplaces offer the intrepid shopper
or diner that most alluring of New York opportunities: a chance to be among the
few who are deeply enough in the know to shop and eat cheap in what, for now,
are still relatively out-of-the-way corners of ethnic New York.

"There is this whole phenomenon of the neighborhood as quasi-museum, as a
repository of ethnic stuff," said Philip Kasinitz, a professor of sociology at
Hunter College. "New York promotes that. This city sees itself as the city of
immigrants, and the overwhelming majority of the population sees itself as the
descendants of immigrants."

What follows is a look at five such neighborhoods.  Granted, the best shopping
in some of these markets is generally of the stocking- or pantry-stuffer
variety; you may want to head elsewhere for the Christmas or Hanukkah main
event. But there is ample consolation: While everyone else marches along Fifth
Avenue during these post-Thanksgiving busiest shopping days of the year, you can
be out on Eighth Avenue in Sunset Park, happily stalking a pair of magnetic
massage slippers ($7.50 at the Yan Hong Chinese Herbs Company) for that special
someone in your life. And you'll eat better, too.

CHINATOWN: SUNSET PARK

This is the city's newest Chinatown, after Manhattan's and Flushing's. It is
just six years old, according to the Census Bureau, and, like many a youngest
sibling, Sunset Park is on a constant campaign to assert itself.

"There is a saying now," said Paul P. Mak, who helped start the nonprofit
Brooklyn Chinese-American Association in 1987 and is now its chief executive.
"In Chinatown, they pay the gangs. In Flushing, some people don't pay. And in
Sunset Park, not only do they not pay, but they call the police."

This is not to say, of course, that Sunset Park doesn't have gangs, and fear of
gangs. "Is it perfect up there? No," says Sgt. Joe Caramanica, a
community-affairs specialist with Patrol Borough Brooklyn South. Still, he calls
Mr. Mak's assessment "pretty accurate."

The community has shown equal determination in building a neighborhood. Before
the Chinese stepped in, Eighth Avenue was largely abandoned, with empty
storefronts and buildings sliding into disrepair. As real-estate speculators
from Hong Kong drove up rents in Manhattan's Chinatown, many garment factories
moved to Brooklyn, and so did the people.

The area's Chinese population has more than quadrupled in a decade, to 8,292 in
1990, according to census figures. But Mr. Mak estimates that there are 150 new
arrivals every month, legal or illegal, settling around Eighth Avenue between
50th and 62d Streets, the heart of the district.

A wide two-way street splashed with sunshine, Eighth Avenue caters to working
people. Stores stay open late, prices are low, and few of the items for sale are
souvenirs. Instead, Sunset Park is a source of low-priced meat, seafood and
vegetables, as well as porcelain and consumer electronics.

A good introduction to the area is the Ocean Palace restaurant, at 5423 Eighth
Avenue (not to be confused with Ocean King Seafood Restaurant across the street
or Ocean Empire a block away). Specialties are steaming tins of dim sum and
Cantonese seafood, and the restaurant often overflows with families, some
spanning three generations. For a festive dessert, the Bright Bakery down the
block sells dried-fruit-filled moon cakes, an essential snack during autumn
holidays celebrating the moon.

Although the local Buddhist temple closed earlier this year, millennia of
Chinese tradition are still represented at Yan Hong, an herbal-medicine shop at
5317 Eighth Avenue. A recent import: thick rubber massage slippers, in which are
embedded magnets that are said to improve circulation and revive tired feet and
legs.

For the more contemporary, Kam and An, an appliance store at 5801 Eighth Avenue,
flaunts the latest in electronics, like a computerized rice-cooker that can be
programmed to produce 10 cups of rice. Kam and An sells another hot local item,
a wristwatch with built-in calculator that runs on a lithium battery.

"A lot of immigrants here work in restaurants," explained Rose Leung, a Kam and
An saleswoman. "But they like to show off."

By subway: N train to Eighth Avenue.

CARIBBEAN FLATBUSH

Once a commercial hub of Jewish Brooklyn, Flatbush Avenue has developed a
distinctly Caribbean tone in the last 10 years. In the shadow of a 17th-century
Dutch Reformed church, behind their Art Deco facades, bakeries do a brisk
business in spicy West Indian meat patties and roti, flaky pancakes filled with
curry. Boutiques like Montego Bay Fashion thrive while the shell of a former
Macy's stands nearby. City buses groan along the avenue while sleek mini-vans,
covering much the same route for 25 cents less, zip past.

There are some 37,000 Jamaicans, Trinidadians, Haitians and other West Indians
living in Flatbush, said Frank Vardy, a demographer for the city's Planning
Department. Together with adjacent, more established West Indian neighborhoods
like Crown Heights and East Flatbush, they form the city's biggest Caribbean
bloc.

Along Flatbush Avenue, for six blocks north and south of Church Avenue, much of
the merchandise is discounted, most brand-name. At one point, there were so many
99-cent stores that they started going under; now one store proclaims all its
wares cost 98 cents. A dozen stores alone carry baby furniture, and probably
three dozen sell adults' and children's wear.

There's a daily crush at Bobby's Department Store, a sprawling, Darwinian
emporium of toys, children's clothes, infant supplies, strollers and cribs.
Across the street, Bobby's II offers housewares, games, clothing, furniture and
personal-care products, also largely discounted. (A Scrabble set, $20 in a
Manhattan toy store, is $12.99 at Bobby's II.)

For the island influence, Ragga-Muffin, at 938 Flatbush Avenue, carries suede
oxfords in the Rastafarian colors red, yellow and green, as well as sandals and
sequin-spangled suits. Down the street, Innovation sells linen fashions with
bold lines and cheerful colors, evoking "what they wear in the islands,"
according to Peach Brown, the Jamaican owner.

Struggler's Record Inc., a virtual Rasta shrine at 675 Flatbush Avenue, offers
rings, bracelets, headbands and other accessories made in Jamaica, all in red,
yellow and green. Then there are the hats -- tams, confederates, Boy Blues --
made popular by reggae singers, as well as an abundant supply of hard-to-find
LP's by the likes of Bob Marley and Jack Radics.

With few restaurants along Flatbush Avenue, many shoppers seem to pause only to
devour a meat patty on the run. But among sit-down possibilities are Sybil's of
Guyana, 2210 Church Avenue, where the aroma from trans-Caribbean offerings like
curried chicken competes with the sweet smell of coco bread coming from Sybil's
West Indian Bakery next door.

At El Castillo de Jagua, 785 Flatbush Avenue, Cuban sandwiches and hearty fare
like octopus stew are served at a spotless counter by Jorge Ramirez, the
Dominican-born owner, who keeps his jukebox stocked with Latin hits.

The strongest link to the West Indies, though, is to be found at the food
stores. The greengrocers are stocked with sweet qunapa, a hard-skinned fruit
that's a pale peach color inside and tastes very sweet, and green June plums, a
Jamaican favorite eaten raw with a bit of salt or stewed with sugar. At the
Sunny Fruit Market, 781 Flatbush Avenue, pods of tamarind, a sour tropical
fruit, are piled high beside stacks of green bananas, which are cooked to make a
breakfast porridge. There are bottles of hot sauce made in Jamaica or Trinidad
and buckets of pigs' tails and snouts, to be simmered with callaloo, a leafy
vegetable that tastes like turnip greens.

Greer Dawes, a medical technologist from Jamaica, picked up a rosy pomegranate
while shopping at Sunny the other day. She held it a moment. "I used to play
ball with these," she confided. "When it breaks, you just get another one off
the tree."

By subway: D train to Church Avenue.

LITTLE INDIA: JACKSON HEIGHTS

Foreign visitors lugging appliance cartons have become a common sight along 74th
Street in this Queens neighborhood. Chances are they're on their way to Kennedy
Airport, heading back to Thailand or Bangladesh with a computer, a radio or a
toaster that would cost more at home, if available at all.

Merchants on 74th Street say they like the nickname Little India, a designation
yet to be sanctioned by city maps. In 1973, Sam Kapadia and Raj Gandhi opened
Sam & Raj at 37-08 74th Street, specializing in home and office equipment that
runs on 220-volt current, common everywhere but North America. At the time, they
were the only Indians on a street of mostly mom-and-pop stores.

Within five years, another Indian-owned business settled in, and these days,
74th Street between Roosevelt and 37th Avenues resembles a mall, a continuum of
shops hawking everything from saris to jewelry to imported canned food.

On weekends the streets are clogged for two blocks with cars bearing
out-of-state license plates, and many stores have toll-free telephone numbers.
Nitin Vora, a partner in Sam & Raj, proclaims that the street has become
internationally known; in fact, he said, The Times of India, the Bombay daily,
once sent a correspondent to interview him.

Many appliances sold here are not adaptable to American current, but there are
plenty of possible purchases elsewhere, with some 20 sari shops and a half-dozen
grocery stores in the area. Among the largest are Bhindi Bazaar, at 72-30 37th
Avenue, and Patel Brothers, 37-46 74th Street. Both carry sacks of cardamom, red
pepper, cumin, coriander and other Indian spices, as well as huge quantities of
staples like basmati rice and lentils.

There's also a wide variety of dining at modest prices. The Jackson Diner, a
no-frills eatery at 37-03 74th Street, serves up rhogan josh, a Kashmiri
specialty of spicy lamb, for $8.75. At Maharaj Bhog, a cafeteria-style
restaurant, strictly meatless Hindu fare starts at $1.25 a dish.

By subway: No. 7 line to 74th Street-Broadway; E, F, G or R to Roosevelt
Avenue-Jackson Heights.

LITTLE COLOMBIA, ETC.: JACKSON HEIGHTS-ELMHURST

At the end of 74th Street, turn east onto 37th Avenue for a true continental
shift: within six blocks is an Argentine steakhouse, a Uruguayan coffee shop, a
Colombian dress shop where the girls' clothes are masses of ruffles. But the
real Latin American heart beats just south, along Roosevelt Avenue between 72d
Street on the west and Junction Boulevard on the east. There the music, food and
dress of the Americas unfold like brilliantly colored postcards in the darkness
beneath the elevated No. 7 subway tracks.

Colombians have the strongest and longest presence here. (Of the 85,000
Colombians counted citywide in the 1990 census, about half live in this part of
Queens.) Store names and restaurants recall various cities and regions, from
Cali to Cartagena. Many Colombians refer to this section of Roosevelt Avenue as
Chapinero, the name of a desirable area in Bogota.

Although the area is a center of the Colombian cocaine-distribution business,
Lieut. Noel Webster, community-affairs supervisor for the Queens Borough Patrol,
calls it "relatively safe," adding, "It's not a place that I would stay away
from."

For an introduction to the neighborhood and the culture, Tierras Colombianas,
82-18 Roosevelt Avenue, serves an $8 bandeja campesina, or country platter, of
steak, pork, rice, beans, egg, arepa, plantains and avocado -- best accompanied
by a mango or passion fruit shake known as a batido.

Deconstruct the meal nearby at La Colombianita, 84-22 Roosevelt Avenue, a grocer
carrying beef cuts, sausage and calves' liver as well as staples like panela
(loaves of brown sugar) and various kinds of beans. There are a half-dozen
different kinds of arepas, dense biscuits made from yellow or white cornmeal,
thick and thin, large and small. The store gives away copies of Noticiero
Colombiano, a local weekly with a full page of soccer news.

The transplanted national obsession continues in the soccer posters and soccer
balls decorating many stores. At one bar, the Flamingo Discoteca, 85-12
Roosevelt Avenue, the owner has set up six big screens for viewing important
games.

Still, while the Colombians may be most numerous in the area, other, and in many
cases, newer, Hispanic immigrant groups are making their influence known. At
Fiesta Mexico, 87-21 Roosevelt Avenue, products include purple cornmeal from El
Salvador, rock salt from Mexico and unhusked barley from Peru. Peruvian
specialties like ocopa, a creamy egg-and-cheese dish, are also available at
Portal Norteno, 88-11 Roosevelt Avenue.

Common to all the cultures: Latin rhythms, piped from nearly every storefront.

By subway: No. 7 line to 74th Street-Broadway; E, F, G or R to Roosevelt
Avenue-Jackson Heights.

KOREATOWN: MIDTOWN

When Jyung-hee Choi paused in his labors long enough to examine the situation,
he concluded that his fellow Korean entrepreneurs were putting in so many hours
at their jobs that they had no time to appreciate their culture.

So, two years ago, he transformed his restaurant, Gam Mee Ok, at 43 West 32d
Street in Manhattan, into a mini-gallery for Korean ceramics, paintings and
sculptures.

"I thought if I exhibited the work here, the Koreans would see it," Mr. Choi
said.

"While they are eating, they can enjoy art, too."

Open 24 hours, Gam Mee Ok has become a gathering place for artists as well as
Korean tourists, businessmen and tae kwan do experts. Mr. Choi's menu features
five items, including sul long tang, rice and noodles mixed with a white broth
drawn from beef bones that simmer day and night in two huge caldrons at one end
of the dining room.

In the 1970's, Korean wig-importers set up shop on Broadway between 23d and 34th
Streets and quickly became a force in the city's wholesale industry. Korean
importers have since expanded into toys, clothing, handbags and costume jewelry,
and in the last five years they have made 32d Street the Korean commercial
center in New York.

These days, the short block between Fifth Avenue and Broadway is a crowded
arcade. Korean businesses flourish on this once-dilapidated street, from the
towering Korean Commercial Bank of New York to bookstores and supermarkets to
the handful of traditional bathhouses, usually identified by signs in only
Korean.

The Hyang Jong Yi bathhouse is entered through a beauty salon of the same name.
On one recent afternoon, half a dozen women were taking saunas or showering in
the wide, spotless gray-tiled bath area. Beauty treatments include a Korean
facial using a mask of cucumbers, pears and milk. For an extra $20 to $40 (the
basic sauna and shower cost $20), female attendants scrub and rinse customers,
wash their hair, and give massages with herb-scented oil. The baths are licensed
and non-Koreans are welcome.

"I'm going into the hospital for an operation," explained one client, who was
being rubbed with oil from head to toe as she lay across a tiled platform. "I
wanted to feel good. This is really good."

By subway: B, D, F, N, R or Q to 34th Street.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Flatbush: A Caribbean flavor, like the sugar cane and other
island vegetables at Sunny Fruit Market, has developed in this neighborhood.;
Sunset Park: The city's newest Chinatown, now six years old, is centered on
Eighth Avenue in Brooklyn, between 50th and 62d Streets. (Photographs by Angel
Franco/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Jackson Heights: This neighborhood offers a
panoply of things Indian, from saris to spices. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York
Times) (pg.14)

Map indicating location of top five immigrant groups to NYC from 1982-1989 (pg.
15)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              286 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 28, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN BEACH;
Clinic Means Health to Some, No Parking to Others

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY

SECTION: Section 13; Page 10; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 368 words


A plan to open a health clinic to serve growing numbers of Russian immigrants
has come under a barrage of criticism from neighbors who see the plan as nothing
less than a parking disaster.

The clinic, which Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center wants to open at 122 West End
Avenue, would serve 8,000 patients -- more than the population of the small
middle- and upper-class beach community. But residents of the area say that
while they recognize the need for a new clinic, to build one at the intended
site would only worsen their already serious parking problems.

Already, during the summer, residents of West End Avenue find their parking
places filled with beachgoers' cars; in the winter, they must vie for spots with
autos from Kingsborough Community College, an elementary school and a high
school.

"This is going to be a horror," said Dana Borell, secretary for the Manhattan
Beach Community Group. "No one will ever be able to drive in. Everyone is upset
about the doom that is going to hit us."

In an indication of the anger, the police were called to maintain order at a
three-hour hearing on the issue two weeks ago at Public School 195 on Irwin
Street. There, Milton Gutman, interim executive officer of Kingsbrook, spoke
only of the community's need for the clinic, which would serve mostly Russian
immigrants.

"During the past 10 years over 175,000 new Russian immigrants have moved to
Brooklyn," Mr. Gutman said. "They come as refugees from Communism and need all
types of medical services. Their arrival has led to a revival of our
neighborhood as a dynamic and vital city community. Their medical needs are one
of the reasons for our interest in the new clinic."

His failure to address the traffic concerns led to a confrontation among
residents who began interrupting him and others who spoke in support of the
plan, prompting a call to the police.

The hearing was held by the New York City Health Systems Agency, which is
reviewing the testimony and will make a recommendation to the state Office of
Health Systems Management, the regulatory arm that handles licensing for health
agencies. That office must approve a license before the Medicaid center can be
built.   L.H.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              287 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 29, 1993, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Wave of Cuban Defections at Puerto Rican Games

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 856 words


A father and son on the archery team were among the first to depart. They were
followed by two champion weight lifters, Cuba's top female softball pitcher, and
even a photographer who had apparently arrived in Puerto Rico, portfolio in
hand, with defection in mind.

By yesterday evening, 34 of the 900 or so members of the Cuban delegation
attending the 17th Central American and Caribbean Games in Puerto Rico had
defected. And though the mounting departures are hardly an exodus, they
represent enough of a trickle to fuel speculation that a major walkout may occur
before the athletic contests conclude on Tuesday.

Despite increased security, at least 11 members of the delegation defected on
Saturday, said Rescue Legion, a Cuban exile group that is helping the asylum
seekers. The defections brought the total to 34 since the games began on Nov.
19.

To Apply for Political Asylum

The 34 athletes plan to hold a news conference today and to apply formally for
political asylum in the United States, representatives of the Rescue Legion
said.

People in the Cuban delegation, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said
the most recent defectors included two weight lifters, Lino Elias Ocana and
Emilio Lara Rodriguez, as well as two coaches; a journalist, Manuel Valle, and
the pitcher, Odalys Hernandez.

The Cuban Government has not issued a statement on the defections.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service has flown an officer to Puerto Rico
to process the growing number of requests for political asylum, an agency
spokesman said. Under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, Cubans entering United
States territory can become residents a year later, without having to apply for
political asylum.

Human rights experts noted that the number of Cuban defections had been
increasing, with Cubans fleeing their homeland by inner-tube, raft and airplane.
Still, they attributed the defections in Puerto Rico to a unique convergence of
time, place and chance, as well as a growing desire to escape a repressive
Government and a deteriorating economy, which has been hurt in part by the
32-year-old United States economic embargo and the loss of subsidies from the
former Soviet Union.

"There are not many cultural exchanges that would permit Cuban athletes or
performers to seek asylum," said Arthur C. Helton, director of the refugee
project of the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights, in New York. "In a real sense
our laws invite Cuban asylum seekers to come to the U.S."

The fact that Puerto Rico is a United States territory in which Spanish is the
official language also made it an easier place for defection, said Frank Calzon,
a representative for Freedom House, the human rights organization.

"If a Cuban was attempting to defect in France or Sweden, there's the problem of
approaching a police officer and being understood," Mr. Calzon said. "That's not
the case in Puerto Rico."

In an effort to hold on to its premier athletes, the Cuban Government had begun
allowing them to keep a bigger share of athletic purses. But during the regional
championships in Puerto Rico, Cuban officials have had to beef up security to
try to stem defections.

Members of the delegation are counted nightly at the National Guard barracks
where they are housed in Salinas, 60 miles southwest of San Juan. And in the
wake of the first defections, athletes say they must now ask permission 24 hours
in advance so security can be arranged before they visit friends or family in
Puerto Rico.

Likening the defections to those of athletes from Communist European countries
during the cold war, Mr. Calzon said it was not unusual that even the Cuban
elite were seeking political asylum.

"I think the balance between fear and repression is beginning to tilt," Mr.
Calzon said. "There is also a generational problem for the Castro regime. Cubans
in their 20's and 30's don't care about Batista," he said, referring to
Fulgencio Batista, a notoriously corrupt dictator who ruled Cuba before Fidel
Castro's revolutionary movement won power in 1959.

"They know they have a Government that's ineffective and repressive, and they
need to try something else," he said. "The athletes are young. If you're 20, and
all Castro says is he doesn't know when things are going to get better, if
you're 20 and know a friend who went to prison for writing a poem, you want to
leave."

Defection is often a heart-wrenching decision, Mr. Calzon said, with those who
do it leaving behind parents, spouses and children who will probably not be
allowed to leave Cuba and join them. It will also mean starting a new life, far
away from home.

Still, the defections in Puerto Rico may prove to be a lightning rod in the
debate over political asylum. Human rights groups are quick to contrast the
relative ease with which Cubans attain asylum with the difficulties faced by
Haitians, who are generally returned to their island.

"It is a stark reminder of the inequitable treatment of the Haitian boat
people," Mr. Helton said. "But I think the key issue is not unfair favoritism of
the Cubans but unfair discrimination toward the Haitians."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Odalys Hernandez, a softball pitcher from Cuba, during a game
last week in Puerto Rico. After the game, she and other athletes defected to the
United States. (Agence France-Presse)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              288 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                November 30, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Cuban Defectors Tell of Plotting Escapes at Games

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 568 words

DATELINE: SAN JUAN, P.R., Nov. 29


Waiting outside an American immigration office to make formal appeals for
political asylum today, eight Cuban athletes who evaded security guards to
defect during the Central American Caribbean Games here told how they plotted
their escapes.

They did not tell their families. One champion weight lifter, Emilio Lara, 23,
said he had to keep his plans secret even from his older brother Pablo, a world
record-holding weight lifter who was also among about 900 Cubans in Puerto Rico
for the competition.

"You can't trust anybody," Emilio Lara said. "We took the chance at night and
left."

39 Defections So Far

The Cubans have been melting away from the games in record numbers. Thirty-nine
people from the Cuban delegation, which includes athletes, state security agents
and journalists, had departed as of today, including Andres Gibert, a top
basketball player. Twenty-seven had formally sought political asylum by the end
of the day, officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service said. The
competition ends on Tuesday.

Guillermo Toledo, the leader of a small group of Cuban exiles, said at a news
conference attended by some of the defectors that he had received telephone
death threats since he started helping the athletes leave.

Cuban exiles say that the defections are an embarrassment to President Fidel
Castro, and that the escapes were prompted by political repression and Cuba's
deteriorating economy. The defectors agree, but add that their moves were aided
by their presence in a Spanish-speaking commonwealth of the United States and
the American immigration law that grants residency to nearly every Cuban who
makes it to Puerto Rico. No other nationality has such a status, a fact that has
been protested by Haitians and others fleeing to the United States.

"If we were in some place like Oklahoma, I would not have gone," said Dany
Garcia, 18, a roller skater who left with a teammate after competing Friday
night in Salinas, 60 miles southwest of San Juan.

'All or Nothing'

Yamilet Amaro, 22, a field hockey star, was beaming as she left the immigration
office arm in arm with her uncle, Tony Suarez, who fled Cuba for Miami in 1980.
She was still wearing the red-white-and-blue team sweat clothes she had on when
she and a teammate walked off the field on Saturday morning to leave the
athletes' village with relatives.

Their relatives accompanied them today to the immigration offices.

She said she believed that the other Cubans in the athletes' village felt the
way she did about leaving but that many did not do so because they did not want
to leave children behind. Ms. Amaro left her mother in Cuba.

At the athlete's village, Cuban guards are doing 11 P.M. roll calls, and team
members have to ask permission 24 hours in advance to meet with someone outside
the village so security can be arranged.

For Marcos Hernandez, a 43-year-old Communist Party member and sports editor for
Cuba's official Prensa Latina news agency, the decision to leave meant a
rejection of ideals he had defended for decades. But he said all Cuba was being
forced into the black market to keep fed, and his salary of 340 pesos a month,
considered high by Havana standards, brought less than the equivalent of $5 in
the black market.

He said Cuban officials would "accuse me of being a traitor," but he added, "in
reality, the person who was betrayed was me."



LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              289 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 1, 1993, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

57 Dealers Are Seized After Sting Across U.S.

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 804 words


Using a new tactic in an old game, undercover agents offered residency permits
as bait to drug traffickers in a sting operation that led to the arrest of 57
cocaine and heroin dealers in raids across the nation at dawn yesterday.
Law-enforcement officials said more than 600 agents participated in the arrests,
primarily in New York City but also in New Jersey, Florida, Missouri and
California.

Over the course of a two-year operation, the agents coaxed drug dealers to a
hotel near Albany and obtained their fingerprints, photographs and addresses by
promising to provide the suspected criminals with legitimate alien registration
cards, commonly known as green cards, in exchange for cash and drugs.

"It started with street-level Dominican guys," said Thomas A. Constantine,
superintendent of the New York State police, who oversaw the initial
investigation. "But it quickly went higher. We soon had high-level Colombian
suppliers coming in. They were all very excited about getting green cards."

The operation marked the first time that the Immigration and Naturalization
Service has allowed the cards to be used in a sting operation, an I.N.S.
official said. Although it began with New York State Police, the scheme
eventually involved agents from the I.N.S, the Federal Bureau of Investigation
and the Drug Enforcement Administration.

As barter for the card, which entitles an alien to permanent residence in the
United States, the agents received 51 pounds of cocaine, 16 pounds of crack, 3
pounds of heroin and $150,476 in cash, United States Attorney Gary L. Sharpe
said in a statement. The drugs had an estimated street value of several million
dollars, he said.

Began in '91

But the real treasure, Mr. Constantine said, was the dealers who were captured.
Among those arrested in New York yesterday, he said, were suspected drug dealers
long sought by the D.E.A., including three Colombians, Carlos Espinal, Alvaro
Orango, and Clara Para.

"We would have wanted Para's husband, Anibal Agudeles, but he was assassinated
in a drive-by shooting in Queens last summer," Mr. Constantine said.

The operation began in 1991 when New York State undercover officers posing as
drug dealers in Albany approached street-level dealers, saying that a corrupt
I.N.S. agent could provide immigration documents for a price, payable in cash or
drugs.

At first the I.N.S. agent offered only to help the suspected drug dealers with
relatively simple immigration procedures. But the documents-for-drugs trading
gradually escalated, Mr. Constantine said, and once the agents were able to
offer the residency cards, they found themselves face-to-face with more senior
drug dealers.

Waiting 2 Weeks

"It was remarkable," Mr. Constantine said. "They'd drive up to Albany. They'd
call us from the turnpike and we start surveillance from there. Then we'd meet
them in a hotel room. Once they trusted us, they would give us drugs."

Mr. Constantine said that after waiting the two weeks or so normally needed to
process a card, the agents would hand over the cards.

"They had a very sophisticated understanding of how the system works. If we'd
given them any faster, they would have suspected something," said Mr.
Constantine.

Many of the drug traffickers tested the residency cards on relatives, who used
them to leave and re-enter the United States. Because the documents were
authentic, border officials let them pass safely, and the dealers increasingly
trusted the agents.

Another unusual aspect of the case, Mr. Constantine said, was the way one of the
Columbian suspects introduced the undercover agents to a Chinese suspect, Tommy
Wong.

Mr. Wong, also known as Sing Sau Wong, was arrested yesterday at a residence on
Ft. Hamilton Parkway in Brooklyn. At one point during the investigation, Mr.
Constantine said, Mr. Wong boasted to the undercover agents that he was one of
the smugglers who brought 300 immigrants to New York City aboard the Golden
Venture in June. An I.N.S. official said no evidence has been found to bolster
that claim.

During yesterday's raid, 37 illegal immigrants were also taken into custody.

Mr. Constantine said a total of 153 suspects were named in 12 separate
indictments returned by a Federal grand jury in Albany on Nov. 12. He said the
authorities hoped to arrest 20 to 30 more suspects, but he added that many are
abroad and are unlikely to be apprehended.

The indictments, sealed until yesterday morning, include charges of bribery,
immigration violations and narcotics trafficking. The drug charges carry maximum
penalties of up to life imprisonment and heavy fines.

Mr. Constantine cited the innovation of using immigration documents as being
critical to the operation's success.

"It was less risky than a regular buy-and-bust operation," he said.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              290 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 December 5, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Even the Most Dedicated Need More Help to Help the Neediest;
An Opportunity to Start Over in a New Land

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE L. HAYS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 61; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1027 words


It is almost two years since Yakov Borisevich Alesker declared himself a
political refugee at the United States Embassy in Moscow and immigrated to New
York with his wife and daughters. At the age of 54, when he could have been
basking in the accumulated glory of a long career at a prestigious Soviet
engineering institute, he now finds himself near the bottom of the ladder at a
Brooklyn vinyl-manufacturing plant.

As an expert in polymers, Mr. Alesker received 40 patents in construction
techniques and published dozens of books and scientific papers in the former
Soviet Union. He won praise from the Communist Party, and even a shiny red
automobile in recognition of his accomplishments. But as a Jew, he said, his
life was haunted by a growing anti-Semitism that finally became unbearable.

The family gave up a seven-room apartment in a tony part of Moscow for four
small rooms in a building of faded gentility in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. These days,
Mr. Alesker rides the subway to work, where he taps out computer formulas to
tint sheets of vinyl that will become shower curtains and upholstery. Late in
life, he is starting over.

Accounting and Computer Training

Mr. Alesker's transition has been helped by the U.J.A.-Federation of New York,
one of seven charities that provide a variety of social services through
donations to the New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. Through the
U.J.A.-Federation's Employment and Guidance Service, which trains needy people
regardless of race, religion or ethnic origin, Mr. Alesker received training in
accounting and computer skills that he is using on the job today.

"I knew he was frightened because of his age," said Joan Berger, a senior case
manager with the employment service . "But his attitude, his eagerness, his
efforts in getting himself a job were just unbelievable." Mr. Alesker threw
himself into his classes and sent out 200 resumes, finding a job in the plastics
industry just a week before he graduated from the courses.

It has been nine months since he was hired by Nuhart Inc. in Green Point. "He's
a highly intelligent man," said Sol Graf, the company's general manager, who
emigrated from Hungary in 1966 and has hired many Soviet Jews over the years.
"He's working out just fine. He is among the best we've ever had,
education-wise."

Mr. Alesker, a diminutive man with a regal bearing, tells of his exodus in true
Russian fashion, full of historical sweep and personal drama, interspersed with
gentle jokes and folksy aphorisms. "You can feed a wolf much, but he will still
look in the forest," he said, explaining his search for a job in his field even
though he was offered other work.

At Risk Because of Religion

Mr. Alesker was born and raised in Moscow, one of three children of an engineer.
The family lived comfortably by Russian standards, but when it came to their
religion, they were always at risk. "Every day of my life in Russia, I had to
remember that I am a Jew," Mr. Alesker said. "When I had to choose an institute
for my education, I couldn't choose the one I wanted because they didn't want
Jews. I had a gold medal for getting the highest score in all my subjects, and
still they rejected me."

Learning about Judaism was next to impossible, he added. "I didn't learn Yiddish
or Hebrew," he said. "I didn't attend synagogue, only on Yom Kippur. We went to
the Moscow synagogue, but it was dangerous even to go. Special agents from the
K.G.B. would take pictures and give them to the university officials, who could
expel you." As a child, Mr. Alesker said, if he read books on Judaism, it was
always "under the pillow."

Once he became an engineer, Mr. Alesker said, anti-Semitism continued to haunt
him. At one point during the early 1980's, a delegation from his institute was
assembled to visit West Germany and instruct the Germans on an infrared heating
device that Mr. Alesker had patented. At the last minute, Communist Party
officials intervened and told his supervisor that there were "too many Jews" in
the delegation, Mr. Alesker said. He was left behind.

A Monument Toppled

But the last straw came even as many restrictions on Soviet life were easing. In
1991, thugs in Belarus toppled a monument marking the grave of Mr. Alesker's
father, a veteran of World War II, and spray-painted it with swastikas. "My
father was not only a kind man, he was a man who was for me, maybe the second
God in my life," he said. "He was awarded many honors in the military. He worked
very hard for Russia, and it was very tragic for me to find pieces of his
monument on the ground with these fascist symbols painted on them."

An official investigation produced no suspects, Mr. Alesker said, which further
disheartened him. "I couldn't live in my country anymore," he said. "It was not
only one episode. There is anti-Semitism that grows deeper and deeper in Russian
life. With perestroika and new troubles, many politicians try to explain that it
is Jewish people who are at fault. By culture, I am Russian, but when you see
this anti-Semitism every day, it is terrible."

He and his wife, Raisa, an economist, and their daughters, Julia, now 31, and
Victoria, now 14, decided to leave.

Victoria is now a freshman at Brooklyn Tech, one of the city's selective public
high schools. A promising violinist, she has won a scholarship to continue
studying and performs with a community-college orchestra that otherwise consists
of adults. Raisa has completed a computer training course and is looking for a
job.

At the same time, the family is trying to pick up the threads of its religious
life, observing all the Jewish holidays now. Last spring, the Aleskers were
invited to celebrate Passover at the home of an Orthodox family in New Jersey,
where they shared meals and the Haggadah and reveled in the freedom to do so.

Yet Mr. Alesker still seems to be looking over his shoulder, back at his former
colleagues and at the change-shaken country that is an indelible part of who he
is. "Let me just say that I am a Muscovite," he said. "My whole life I lived in
this city. Now I live in New York, but to tell the truth, my heart is in
Russia."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              291 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 19, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Helping the Neediest Women

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 564 words


A refugee arrives in New York from Belarus. At 56, she has endured for decades a
marriage to an abusive, alcoholic husband who has, at least once, come close to
killing her. She speaks no English; but immigrant organizations help her to
adjust. They arrange English classes. As her confidence grows, she finds the
courage, for the first time in her life, to ask for help.

In desperation, she calls the agency that has already helped her so much, an
agency supported in part by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. She finds
herself in the office of Victoria Neznansky, a vibrant young woman from Odessa
who speaks her language, understands her plight, tells her she's not alone and
offers support.

Ms. Neznansky was such an immigrant herself in 1989. The New York Association
for New Americans, supported by the United Jewish Appeal, helped her to find a
home, friends and a job. Eventually she won a scholarship to study at New York
University for a master's degree in social work. Once she got her degree, she
returned to the agency that had helped her. She works with immigrant women from
the former Soviet Union who suffer from domestic violence.

Many of these women come from rural societies in which a wife is considered her
husband's property. Often they adjust more quickly than their husbands to life
in the United States, learning English faster and enjoying their new-found
freedom. But freedom for a wife can mean humiliation for her husband. Sometimes
the last straw comes when a woman finds work and her husband is still
unemployed. With their status in the immigrant community diminished and feeling
they are losing control of their families, some husbands turn violent. Others
continue a pattern started in the old country, where such abuse was tolerated.

Sometimes, Ms. Neznansky finds, talking to such a husband can help. She explains
that this kind of behavior is against the law here. She sympathizes with the
difficulty of adjusting to new ways. But she also cautions that if his wife is
in danger, as a professional she is obliged to call on law enforcement to
protect her. She offers her help. She estimates that in 40 percent of these
cases the husband's behavior changes. For the others, she arranges new housing
and support to help the wife start a new life.

Ms. Neznansky is one of many people working for agencies supported by the
Neediest Cases Fund who have started as clients and ended up as helpers.

In her own case, her drive, her command of the language (she taught English in
Odessa before emigrating) and her determination not to depend on welfare caught
the attention of agency workers. They felt she would be a good interpreter and
hired her. Eventually, after getting her degree, she returned to the work she is
doing now -- partly with the help of Times readers who have contributed to the
Neediest Cases Fund.

The fund channels all contributions to social service organizations; none is
held back for administration or solicitation. The money could end up paying the
rent for a young mother who needs to escape an abusive relationship -- or for
some other life-saving form of help.

Contributions are tax-deductible to the extent permitted by law, and any amount
is welcome. Checks should be payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund
and mailed to Post Office Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              292 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 21, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Ship's Captain to Cooperate In Case of Immigrants' Deaths

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 631 words


The captain of the Golden Venture, the freighter that ran aground off Queens
last June with nearly 300 illegal Chinese immigrants, has agreed to plead guilty
and to cooperate with Federal authorities investigating the ill-fated trip, the
captain's lawyer said yesterday.

The lawyer said that in return for leniency, his client, Amir Humuntal Lumban
Tobing, was prepared to testify against eight Chinese men facing trial on
charges of having acted as enforcers on the ship on behalf of those who arranged
the trip.

The four-month voyage, for which each of the aliens agreed to pay a fee of about
$30,000, ended with 10 of the aliens dying as a result of their attempt to reach
the shore after the ship became stuck on a sand bar off the Rockaway peninsula
during a storm on June 6.

The lawyer, Alan Drezin, declined to disclose the information Mr. Tobing would
give about the enforcers or say whether his client's cooperation would extend to
providing information about the organizers of the nightmarish journey, which
began off the coast of Thailand and wound through the Indian and Atlantic
Oceans.

Aiding in Tracing Organizers

Federal authorities have identified at least one man whom they suspect was among
the organizers in the smuggling operation, but no one at that level has been
arrested or charged in the case.

As the captain of the ship, Mr. Tobing, 45, could be expected to provide
important testimony against the enforcers, at the least, and possibly to be
helpful to the authorities in tracing the organizers.

After his arrest last June, the captain told Federal investigators that he had
been hired in Bangkok to command the rusting 150-foot vessel by a man he knew as
Char Lee, who was from Taiwan and who communicated regularly by radio during the
journey with Kin Sin Lee, who has been identified as being the chief enforcer
aboard.

Kin Sin Lee faces the most serious charges of any defendant -- six counts of
manslaughter, for six of the passengers who died -- and officials have said that
they hoped the maximum sentence of 15 years for each count might persuade him to
cooperate. He was the registered owner of the Golden Venture, but investigators
said that it was in name only, and that the bosses who hired him for the
operation have not been caught.

Judith Lieb, an assistant United States attorney in Brooklyn and one of the
prosecutors in the case, declined to comment yesterday on Mr. Drezin's
statements.

A lawyer for another defendant, San Lwin, the ship's chief officer, said there
were negotiations with the prosecution involving his client as well, "with the
view to his potentially taking a plea." But the lawyer, Joel R. Weiss, said it
was unclear whether an agreement would be reached.

But Mr. Weiss added that Mr. Lwin, a citizen of Myanmar, would testify the same
way whether he took the witness stand as a defendant or as a prosecution witness
who had pleaded guilty or as a witness called by other defendants.

His testimony, Mr. Weiss said, would be that Mr. Lee coerced him to "ground the
ship off Rockaway and take the actions that caused people to die." Mr. Weiss
said Mr. Lwin was "not in a position to give information" about who arranged the
trip.

Last August, Federal investigators arrested members of the Fuk Ching gang in New
York City on immigrant smuggling charges, and the gang's leader, Guo Liang Chi,
was arrested in Hong Kong on murder charges. Even though officials believe Mr.
Guo was involved in the Golden Venture case, neither he nor his gang have been
linked to to the boat.

Mr. Drezin said that under the plea deal, the captain would plead guilty to a
single count of conspiring to smuggle illegal aliens into the United States,
which is punishable by a maximum of five years in prison.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              293 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 24, 1993, Friday, Late Edition - Final

New York's Court Interpreters: Overworked Link

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Law Page

LENGTH: 1792 words


When New York's immigrants must appear in court, precious hours often slip away
because an interpreter is nowhere to be found. Judges become furious, then
desperate. That was why a State Supreme Court clerk in Queens once ran to a
Korean deli and prevailed upon the owner to help out, and why, during a hearing
in a Brooklyn homicide case, a judge asked a Vietnamese co-defendant to do the
honors.

The co-defendant complied, and on those grounds the conviction is being
appealed.

Judges and lawyers say interpreters in the New York City courts are overworked,
underpaid, undertrained and often unavailable, resulting in unequal justice for
many immigrants. Critical testimony can be misunderstood, mistakes go unnoticed
and hearings are often delayed.

The situation has deteriorated so much, a City Bar Association committee report
said last week, that people who come to court and do not know English are put
through what the panel called a Kafkaesque and deplorable experience in a system
with no standard certification of most interpreters.

Judge E. Leo Milonas, New York's Chief Administrative Judge, said his office was
aware that more and better-trained interpreters are sorely needed, and had
sought a $1 million increase for them in the next budget. Last summer he ordered
a statewide audit of the interpreters, which is due next month.

The right to a competent interpreter in criminal cases has been upheld by courts
as fundamental to due process. For immigrants with cases in housing, family or
civil courts, lack of an interpreter impedes the right to equal protection, said
the report by the Committee on the Legal Needs for the Poor.

New York courts have statutory authority to appoint interpreters. But
administrators screen them in an ad-hoc fashion that varies from county to
county, the report said.

To most English speakers, legalese, the language of the courts, already sounds
incomprehensible. But to the foreign-born, legalese and the principles it stands
for can seem utterly out of reach.

Under scrutiny is a job with intellectual and emotional demands unparalleled by
other interpreting positions. In addition to bewildering legal terminology,
interpreters must accurately translate the words of coroners, of ballistics
experts, of psychiatrists. They must stay current with the changing street names
for drugs, weapons, sexual parts.

From Case to Case

They move from courtroom to courtroom, usually with no preparation, from a
slip-and-fall lawsuit to a child's testimony about being sodomized and then a
defendant's explanation of murder in self-defense.

"They're putting their words into your mouth," said Luisa Hernandez, a Spanish
interpreter based in Queens Supreme Court. "And they are counting on you to help
them. Sometimes they whisper to me in Spanish, 'Should I take this plea? Is my
lawyer doing a good job?' It's really difficult because I'm not supposed to give
advice. I'm supposed to be like a puppet, without an opinion."

More important, there is no way to catch errors. Records are made of the English
rendition of the testimony but not the original language. Although appeals based
on faulty interpretation have begun to rise in recent years -- including a
heroin case in which a Cantonese interpreter was so bad that Chinese reporters
in the courtroom laughed derisively -- they are rarely granted because they are
so hard to prove, said Stanley Neustadter, a New York appeals lawyer.

While a mistake in Spanish may be noticed occasionally, judges say they feel
helpless to control matters with languages like Fujianese; Farsi, the Iranian
language, and Wolof, a Senegalese language. When an interpreter translates
simultaneously, whispering in a defendant's ear, catching errors is virtually
impossible.

Availability is a critical problem, experts say. Judges and litigants tell of
cases postponed for days and even weeks, waiting for interpreters.

"I'm always having to adjourn cases because I can't even get a Spanish
interpreter," said Judge Laurie L. Lau of Brooklyn Housing Court. "So you can
imagine when I had an Arabic-speaking tenant and an Italian-speaking landlord."

Confusion Meets Desperation

In Brooklyn Housing Court linguistic confusion meets desperation on a daily
basis. The other day the corridor outside Judge Lau's courtroom was rocked by
scared, angry voices in many languages. Lawyers for landlords strained to be
heard, screeching legalese: "Just sign this stip, O.K.?"

The frequent refrain: "No understand."

A Spanish interpreter finally arrived in Judge Lau's court. Through her, a
Puerto Rican man in his 70's explained that he was willing to have his wages
garnisheed for back rent. But, as he now learned through the interpreter, the
landlord wanted to take his entire paycheck.

Even the interpreter looked thunderstruck. She would try to return after lunch
to finish the hearing and maybe help with three other cases Judge Lau had to
postpone because they needed an interpreter.

Part-Time Interpreters

Although the State Office of Court Administration has 156 full-time
interpreters, most of whom are Spanish speaking, part-time interpreters take
significant numbers of cases. They are paid $80 a day and come from refugee
organizations, private agencies and even the school system. And they rarely have
legal backgrounds.

Complaints about uneven quality are not uncommon. Recently a Spanish interpreter
handling a Queens automobile accident case left out the color of the traffic
lights and the location of the collision.

More widespread, subtle problems occur, judges and lawyers say, when untrained
interpreters step outside their strictly defined roles of neutrality. Judge
Michael Gage, the supervising judge of Queens Family Court, tells of a Korean
interpreter who berated a battered woman for testifying against her husband, and
an Urdu interpreter in a juvenile delinquency case who explained what he thought
the teen-ager meant, rather than what the boy actually said.

While having an interpreter can be crucial in matters as disparate as proving
one's innocence in a criminal case or in asking a court to compel a landlord to
provide heat, judges say that many immigrants, embarrassed by their limited
English, are too shy to ask for help. And often lawyers do not demand an
interpreter.

While judges have informally assigned interpreters for decades, legal experts
say that with some exceptions, the right to an interpreter only began to be
recognized by state courts in the mid-1960's.

The problems with interpreters in New York and other cities reflect the growing
number of immigrants and the shift in homelands. In 1987 New York's courts
classified the most common foreign languages as Spanish, Haitian Creole, Korean,
Polish and Chinese. In 1993 the courts said they were Spanish, Korean, Arabic,
Russian, Cantonese and Mandarin.

In fiscal year 1988 New York State spent $6.8 million on interpreters. Last year
it spent $9.3 million (raises for permanent staff account for some increase).
State administrators do not track how many cases used interpreters for which
languages.

Los Angeles Is Model

Some experts say Los Angeles County has the best-paid, best-trained court
interpreter staff in the country's local jurisdictions. California offers an
exam for eight languages and Los Angeles also tests for legal terminology and
ability to interpret both consecutively and simultaneously. Last year the county
spent $16 million on interpreters, paying them $128 for a half day and $210 for
a full day.

By contrast, New York State offers a Civil Service exam only for full-time
Spanish interpreters once every four years; testing of the per-diem workers is
not mandatory. The interpreters are generally not monitored. Attendance at the
occasional seminars offered by the Office of Court Administration is voluntary.

"Screening is a major issue," Jonathan Lippman, deputy chief administrator of
the state courts, said. He said that tests, which he hopes to make mandatory,
have been developed for Spanish, Russian, Cantonese, Mandarin, Polish and Greek
per-diem interpreters.

But in the hierarchy of interpreting positions, which include the private
sector, the United Nations and the Federal courts, the New York State court jobs
lurk somewhere near the bottom. While the per-diem interpreters in state court
are paid $80 a day, the day rate from corporations runs between $350 and $450.

The Federal Government offers certification exams only in Spanish, Haitian
Creole and Navajo, which have a pass rate of 7 percent; the certified Federal
interpreters earn $250 a day. Federal court interpreters for other languages
earn $150 and up.

Ingenuity and Diligence

Given the scarcity of state resources, the system often survives on ingenuity
and extra diligence. Over the years Sonya Mittler, who coordinates interpreters
for Queens Supreme Court, has proudly assembled a roster for 55 languages.

In Manhattan, a harried Rosadale Dunnom, who assigns interpreters for the city's
criminal courts, tells a Brooklyn judge: "I've got a Polish interpreter who just
called from court in Queens, but it'll take an hour and a half to get him to
you, and it's already 3:30."

The more responsible interpreters explain legal terminology to one another,
study language books on their own time, and keep informed about new street
words.

Recently Ms. Hernandez, the Spanish interpreter in Queens, was stumped by a
witness who kept referring to his "chagon." Court proceedings ground to a halt
as she flipped through dictionaries. The word turned out to be a Spanish-English
concoction for "shotgun."

A Problem With Dialects

The Spanish dialects spoken in the Caribbean and Latin America can prove
nettlesome. "Manteca," for example, generally means lard, but to many Latin
American drug dealers it also means heroin.

The interpreter system has endured other criticism recently. Last summer, a
report about court interpreters for the deaf and the hearing-impaired by the
City Bar Association and the New York Women's Bar Association found that because
the deaf communicate through lip reading, writing, or one or more sign
languages, interpreters were often mismatched with litigants.

In 1991, the New York State Judicial Commission on Minorities, which found the
state court system "infested with racism," urged that interpreters be improved.

In addition to ordering the statewide audit of the interpreters, court
administrators have been meeting with officials from New Jersey, Massachusetts,
Washington State and the National Center for State Courts to study interpreter
services. In a statement, Judge Milonas said: "We will soon undertake a
revamping of services and procedures."


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judges and lawyers say interpreters in the New York City courts
are overworked, underpaid, undertrained and often unavailable. At State Supreme
Court in Manhattan, Pedro Masoliver, left, helped a Spanish-speaking defendant,
center, communicate with his court-appointed lawyer, Joseph Torres. (Sara
Krulwich/The New York Times) (pg. A22)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              294 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

U.S. Immigrants Make Christmas Their Very Own

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1251 words


Ranjit Singh Janjua went to the library recently to determine why so many people
in Astoria, Queens -- he and his wife, Ranjeet, included -- were buying
evergreen trees and draping them with blinking lights at this time of year.

When he was unable to find the answer among the books, he and his wife developed
a theory about the Christmas trees.

"We think that this must have been the only tree when the baby Jesus was born,
because all of the other trees had died for the winter," said Mr. Janjua, a Sikh
from India. "What do you think?" he said. "Is that the reason for the trees?"

Both Obligation and Belonging

Like many immigrants who are not Christians, Mr. Janjua is mystified by many
holiday customs that he has seen in his Queens neighborhood and has dutifully
adopted to feel at home in the America of 30th Avenue.

The flood tide that is Christmas in America has penetrated his tiny apartment,
as it has the lives of many newcomers among the 178 ethnic groups whose growing
numbers have made Queens the most diverse borough in New York, and these days,
among the most diverse anywhere in the country. Throughout Queens yesterday and
on Christmas Eve, Hindus, Buddhists, Muslims and Sikhs plugged in strings of
lights, exchanged gifts, and held candles at carol services next to Christian
friends and relatives.

"I look at it as an American holiday, which everyone is enjoying so I enjoy it,
too," said Dr. Sevket Karaduman, a Turkish Muslim whose home and medical office
in Jackson Heights are full of decorated trees and who gave gifts to his
neighbors yesterday. "I am part of this society, so I must participate in it.
And when my holidays come, my friends come over and celebrate them with me."

Many echoed the idea that they were doing so out of a newly acquired sense of
national obligation, much as they prepared turkeys last month on Thanksgiving
and watched fireworks on Independence Day.

He noted that many Turks, here and in Turkey, maintain evergreen trees as a New
Year's symbol. In the United States, he said, the trees do double duty.

Daughter's Initiative

The Janjuas' six-foot tree, pulsing with light throughout Christmas Day, was
actually constructed of man-made materials. Their daughter, Navjot -- who spent
Christmas Eve watching the Bundy family observe the holiday on the television
program "Married With Children" -- asked for it, and her parents were only too
pleased to oblige.

Mr. Janjua respects Jesus, but is not a Christian and has no intention of
becoming one. He has simpler reasons for his tree.

"We see that it makes her happy, and it makes us happy, too," said Mr. Janjua,
who was born in Punjab state in northern India. "As long as we live here, this
is what we have to do."

On the 74th Street strip of Jackson Heights known as Little India -- a section
crammed with Indian spice shops, jewelry stores and restaurants -- merchants say
their Christmas business is exceeded only slightly by shopping for Divali, the
fall festival of lights. At the Sagar Sari Palace, Vijay Kohli, the owner, hung
a Merry Christmas banner under the sign promising an "Exciting World of Saris
and Punjabi Suits" inside. His store was crowded with shoppers loading up on
saris on sale for $40, marked down from $47, and most were Hindus who gave them
as Christmas presents yesterday.

"Why shouldn't Hindus celebrate Christmas?" Mr. Kohli said. "Everyone else in
America does."

Spiritual Appeal

Those who have looked beyond the lights and the wrapping paper are often
attracted to the spiritual side of Christmas, impressed by a non-specific
message of serenity and good will that appeals to many with Eastern
sensibilities.

Venu Gopal was one of several Hindus who lighted candles and sang Tamil
Christmas carols shortly before midnight on Friday night, as they sat amid a
Christian Tamil congregation in the Pilgrim Congregational Church in Richmond
Hill. Tamil families in many cases have been Christians for centuries, and Mr.
Gopal, even though he does not plan to become a Christian, said he has not
missed a Christmas service in years.

"To me, God is one, whether his name is Rama, Jesus or Allah," he said. "I feel
the same purity when I come in here that I feel when I am praying as a Hindu.
And I like the music here better."

As Mr. Gopal, a garment importer who lives in Forest Hills, spoke, the 27-person
choir, dressed in traditional south Indian clothes, was singing a Tamil carol
called "Ullam Sirikattumey" ("Let Your Heart Smile"), accompanied by the choir
master on a Casio keyboard that was pumping out pre-programmed rhythms. Later,
they were joined by a man playing traditional Indian drums called tablas in a
spiritual sung in English.

Pitfalls in Assimilation

The inescapable quality of Christmas in this country has long been lamented by
some leaders of other religions. Jews have worried about the assimilation and
homogenization that can result when an essentially religious holiday of the
majority surrounds and submerges a minority.

Some Muslim organizations like the National Council on Islamic Affairs have also
begun to fear for their religious identity in wintertime, proposing a "Muslim
Day" in December so their children can have something unique to celebrate.

But many other religions practiced in Queens, particularly Buddhism, Hinduism
and Sikhism, seem to accommodate Christmas. Eastern faiths sometimes seem to
have a more expansive spiritual outlook than those of the West, allowing for a
variety of practices in the United States that might have been unknown in the
old country.

"Buddhism is very open-minded, and we respect the Christ as a great teacher,"
said the Rev. Chung Lee, the Korean minister of the Won Buddhist Temple on
Cherry Avenue in Flushing. "We even have a Christmas party for our youth group.
What can you do? It's part of the culture."

But Ms. Lee acknowledged the price to be paid for such openness when so many
Buddhist families exchange presents, sing carols and put up trees next to their
Buddhist shrines. With nearly three-fourths of Korean immigrant families
belonging to Christian churches or converting to Christianity, she has begun to
experience the thoroughly American sensation of watching an ancient tradition
slowly dissolve.

"Many Koreans, they convert because they think it will help them to succeed in
this country," she said. "We must try to teach that the spiritual journey must
be inward, not outward. But that is not what they see on the street."

Christianity and Koreans

Christianity gained converts during the Korean War in the early 1950's. The Rev.
Nam Soo Kim, pastor of the Full Gospel New York Church in College Point, said
that for others, there is something attractive about Christianity as the
religious embodiment of the mainstream culture. His prosperous 3,000-member
church, one of the fastest growing of the approximately 200 Korean churches in
Queens, has been a principal beneficiary of that attraction, recently taking
over the better part of a sprawling office tower in an industrial zone.

As a former Buddhist, Mr. Kim said Christianity's appeal goes beyond a desire to
blend in.

"The Buddhists say you can believe in almost everything, and it is too confusing
in a place like America," he said yesterday as his congregants sang a Korean
version of "Joy to the World."

"There is more reality in our faith," he said. "We teach that there is only one
God, and that is what people need to hear at this time of year."

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: An Indian Tamil choir singing carols at a Christmas Eve service
in Richmond Hill, Queens. Some Indian Hindus and followers of other religions
celebrated the holiday along with the Christian congregation. (pg. 1); "As long
as we live here, this is what we have to do," said Ranjit Singh Janjua. He and
his wife, Ranjeet, right, and their daughter, Navjot, immigrants from India, are
not Christian but are celebrating Christmas. They gathered by their tree
yesterday in their home in Astoria, Queens. (pg. 36) (Monica Almeida/The New
York Times)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              295 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 26, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEW YORK BOOKSHELF;
They Came, They Saw, They Built a City

SECTION: Section 13; Page 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 406 words


NEW YORK is a city of immigrants, and the stories of its immigrants could fill a
very large bookshelf. Here are some starters.Most of these books are at New York
Bound Bookshop (50 Rockefeller Plaza, 212 245-8503); and many can be found in
other stores.

CHINATOWN: A PORTRAIT OF A CLOSED SOCIETY by Gwen Kinkead (Harper Collins).

This book covers a wide range of Chinese experiences, from food to work to
organized crime.
ADAPTING TO ABUNDANCE: JEWISH IMMIGRANTS, MASS CONSUMPTION AND THE SEARCH FOR
AMERICAN IDENTITY by Andrew R. Heinze (Columbia University Press).

A deconstructive history of a group of immigrants who experienced wealth for the
first time, and how consumerism and the immigrants' traditional values faced
off.
CARIBBEAN NEW YORK: BLACK IMMIGRANTS AND THE POLITICS OF RACE by Philip Kasinitz
(Cornell University Press).

An examination of American and Caribbean blacks, and a look into West Indian
neighborhoods.

ELLIS ISLAND TO EBBETS FIELD: SPORT AND THE AMERICAN JEWISH EXPERIENCE by Peter
Levine (Oxford University Press).

The stories of Jewish-American sports stars, from the days when Hank Greenberg
and Sandy Koufax were baseball heroes.

THE ITALIANS OF GREENWICH VILLAGE by Donald Tricario (Center for Migration
Studies).

A study of second-generation Italian-Americans and their adaptation to American
life.

LITTLE GERMANY: ETHNICITY, RELIGION AND CLASS IN NEW YORK CITY by Stanley Nadel
(University of Illinois Press).

A history of Kleindeutschland, the German enclave in the Lower East Side, home
to 350,000 Germans at its height in the mid-19th century.

THE DEMOGRAPHICS OF IMMIGRATION by Nadia H. Youssef (Center for Migration
Studies).

An analysis of the demographic, social and economic characteristics of immigrant
groups in New York.

DOWN THESE MEAN STREETS by Piri Thomas (Vintage Press).

A true story of a Puerto Rican boy's struggle in East Harlem.

BROWNSVILLE by Alter F. Landesman (Bloch Press).

A study of Brownsville, Brooklyn, which was rural in the late 19th century, and
by 1925 was the largest Jewish section of New York.

AROUND THE WORLD IN NEW YORK by Konrad Bercovici (out of print). The author
shares what he learned about Syrian, Greek, Chinese, Hungarian and Czech New
York.

NEW IMMIGRANTS IN NEW YORK edited by Nancy Foner (Columbia University Press).

Essays on the experience of immigrants from Asia, Latin America, the West Indies
and Russia since 1965.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              296 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                December 28, 1993, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

Thriving on Difference;
International High Students Speak Language of Learning

BYLINE: By LYNDA RICHARDSON

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1537 words


Abdul Samad, a 20-year-old from Afghanistan, went to school for the first time
three years ago. He said he did not know a word of English when he was admitted
into the International High School in Queens. He felt blind and deaf and
panicky.

"I was very crazy," said the high school student, dressed in a black leather
jacket and jeans. "I wondered, 'How am I going to learn this language or study
this? I've never been to school.' I didn't know how to write the alphabet."

Abdul is now a model student at International High, an alternative public school
that is nationally recognized for the way immigrant students are taught and
valued. He will graduate this spring as a senior, but came to school already a
man.

Since age 10, Abdul had fought as a guerrilla rebel against the occupying Soviet
forces in his homeland. He saw 10 friends die in combat and was hospitalized
himself at age 14 with a bullet in his leg. He recalls precisely how he killed
two Russian soldiers at point-blank range. He said they had fatally wounded his
mother and seriously injured his father and three brothers in a bombing of his
house.

He found his way to America through a network of Afghan contacts, and like
thousands of other young immigrants each year, filtered into the New York City
school system, where the foreign-born population has more than tripled in the
last four years.

As issues such as violence, apathy and disenfranchisement dominate public
discussion of the New York City school system, the International High School
offers a glimmer of hope to immigrant youths on a first-come, first-served
basis.

The school, on the sprawling campus of La Guardia Community College, admits only
students who have been in the United States for less than four years and score
low in English proficiency on a standardized language assessment test.

Enrollment reflects geopolitics. The 460 students, who are from 60 countries and
speak 42 languages, come from places often in turmoil. When the school opened
eight years ago as a joint effort of the Board of Education and the City
University of New York, there were only a handful of students from Eastern
Europe. Now Eastern Europeans are the third largest group, with 128 students.
The biggest representation is from Spanish-speaking countries, followed by the
Asian bloc, including China, Hong Kong, Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Iran and
Afghanistan.

When Abdul arrived, he was met with a swell of support from teachers and other
students. He was thrown into classes -- the school does not separate students
according to their varying abilities in English -- and his Afghan-speaking
classmates helped him learn English, even as he went to classes in science,
math, history and art. The teachers would speak slowly, write names and draw
pictures to guide him along, and they started him off with easier assignments.

Impressive Academic Record

At International High, teachers and staff break the mold in the way English is
traditionally taught to students with limited English proficiency. Every teacher
doubles as an English instructor to some extent, reinforcing language
development as they teach instruction in the core subject areas.

The school has an impressive record of academic success. Ninety-three percent of
the students go on to college and more than 90 percent graduate having taken at
least one regular college-level course at LaGuardia Community College.

"It's an extraordinary place," said Jacqueline Ancess, a senior research
associate at the National Center for Restructuring Education, Schools and
Teaching at Teachers' College, Columbia University. "This school makes sure
these students have a future and gives them the skills for the future. It lets
them know that they are valued."

There is a calm, mature air about the business of education at International
High. There are no school bells.  Classrooms are dispersed throughout the
campus, and students carry college IDs, enroll in college courses, eat in the
college cafeteria and work out in the college gym. They participate in a
career-oriented internship program outside the school for one third of each
school year.

The population of the school, which was intended to accommodate between 400 and
500 students, is also small enough so that the staff gets to know students.

Learning to Get Along

It was not long after Abdul arrived at the high school before teachers and
counselors noticed his tenseness around Russian students. "He used to jump on
anything a Russian said and make fun of it," said Ruthellyn Weiner, an assistant
principal. "He would not get into physical stuff, but there would be verbal
sparring."

But Abdul found that his enmity toward Russians had no place in the school.
Every day, students have to work together in small groups to complete
assignments. Some of his classmates were Russian.

"Just because of the constant working in groups, conflicts couldn't exist in
that fashion," said the assistant principal. "He dealt with it. It was not even
acceptable to him."

Abdul has now set his sights on life after high school. He aspires to be a
pilot.

"I'm here to get an education and to get something for the future," he said
during a class break. "In America, anything you want to do is possible."

Optimism Encouraged

Abdul's optimism is echoed by many students in the school, as they stride the
hallways and listen intently in class. The feeling does not come by accident,
teachers and administrators say.

"The optimism is infectious," said the principal, Eric Nadelstern, whose own
parents were Holocaust refugees from Poland and Romania. "To the extent that we
are successful, students leave us as competent learners and competent
individuals. The spirit that is shared by the entire faculty is that our
students represent the future."

In a classroom humming with Polish, Spanish and Chinese accents on a recent
morning, students expressed a litany of hopes and dreams in response to a math
teacher's question about what kind of student they wanted to be.

"I want to be the best I can and I want to be an A-student and always improve,"
15-year-old Maria Christian of Ecuador said in one happy breath.

"The more you want, the more we have," assured the teacher, Simon Cohen.

International High is constantly evolving to meet the needs of students. Over
the years, the class periods have gone from 35 minutes to 70.  This year, for
the first time, the curriculum has gone entirely interdisciplinary, with
instruction in core subjects linked by themes.

The school is now broken into six thematic clusters in what amounts to six
mini-schools. Each trimester, a small team of teachers from each cluster is
responsible for whta happens to about 70 students in the core subject areas
during the day.

During their four years, the students cycle through 12 clusters to accumulate
the credits needed to graduate. In one cluster called "Beginnings," incoming
students like Rafael Dobrowolski explore their immigrant experience through
lessons in English, math, science and art.

Remembering Homelands

Rafael is a 15-year-old Polish boy. As far as he is concerned, the future shines
bright. A year and a half ago, Rafael left Poland where there were soldiers on
the street and the outlook was bleak. His father has found a job cutting grass
in a Queens cemetery and his mother works as a secretary. Rafael, who was once
ashamed to speak because of his hobbled English, is learning big new words like
"sophisticated" this year.

"I say it quite a bit," Rafael boasted the other day.

Even as students labor over their English-speaking skills, International High
makes a point of fostering the memories of homelands around the world. Teachers
don't get upset if students speak in their first language in class. At a native
language celebration at the school earlier this month, Martin Vu rose to read an
essay he had written about his native country, Vietnam:

". . .Only deep, deep inside my heart actually knows how I miss those coconut
trees running along the river side, those tenderly sweet taste of the mango,
those intensely warm flavor of the durian. I don't want to recall any further
because this makes me sad."

The voice rising with emotion came from a quiet 18-year-old who left Vietnam
because he said he was not allowed to attend college. His father had served as a
surgeon in the South Vietnamese Army and is still regarded as the enemy, he
said. At age 13, Martin was imprisoned for 2 1/2 months as he tried to flee the
country. When he finally did leave Vietnam in 1988, he spent two years in
refugee camps in Malaysia and the Philippines.

Martin now lives in Queens with his mother and three sisters but his heart
remains in Vietnam. His father, who is unemployed, and brother subsist there on
financial support from relatives in America.

". . .I just want to say to all immigrants that America may be your home for the
rest of your life, but don't forget where you came from," Martin told the
assembly. "It's like you're in the present and heading to the future, but don't
forget your past no matter how good or bad it was. You can't go forward unless
you know what steps you have passed. Everyone has a country!"

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the city's school system, where the foreign-born population
has more than tripled in the last four years, the International High School
offers a hand to immigrant youths. Abdul Samad, a 20-year-old from Afghanistan,
said, "I'm here to get an education and to get something for the future." He
greeted a classmate. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B1)

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company


                              297 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 2, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Exotic Foreign Markets: Try Living With Them

SECTION: Section 13; Page 11; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 198 words


To the Editor:

In "To Markets! To Markets!" on Nov. 28, Constance L. Hays glorifies a number of
neighborhoods as wonderfully enriched by the flow of immigrants. But as a
veteran resident of Jackson Heights -- the location of her Little India and
Little Colombia segments -- I find the article out of touch with the reality of
daily existence.

I remember 74th Street when the first Indians arrived in 1973 -- a street of
mom-and-pop stores that provided a well-balanced mix of neighborhood retail
businesses. The proliferation of Indian stores, mostly jewelry shops and sari
palaces, has destroyed that balance; now Indian shoppers from outside tne
neighborhood clog the street with traffic and double-parked cars, and residents
must go elsewhere to shop.

As for Little Colombia, once again the ethnic balance has been destroyed and
traditional businesses displaced. Anyone who thinks Roosevelt Avenue is a
treasure of ethnic diversity should take a weekend walk and hear the Latin music
blaring from oversized car speakers, or see the unlicensed street merchants
peddling counterfeit videocassettes, the discount junk shops, the cocaine trade.


IVAN E. RICO
Queens

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              298 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 2, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Campaign in Bahamas Forces Haitians to Flee for the U.S.

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER,   Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1761 words

DATELINE: MARSH HARBOUR, the Bahamas, Dec. 30


Afraid the country will be overwhelmed by a growing population of Haitian
immigrants and refugees, the Government of the Bahamas has instituted tough new
policies that have led many Haitians to abandon this nation and flee to the
United States.

As part of the campaign, the Bahamian military and police have arrested Haitians
in raids on their homes, workplaces and churches. And local governments have
demolished homes in some Haitian settlements. At the same time, the Bahamian
Government has made it harder for Haitians to obtain the work permits or
permanent residency papers that make their presence here legal, raising fees for
the documents to levels few Haitians can afford and thereby making them
vulnerable to deportation.

"The world don't know the tragedy going on in these little islands," said
Robinson Weatherford, a Protestant minister who works with the long-established
Haitian community here on Great Abaco Island, where the campaign has been
especially intense.

'Where Can We Go?'

At a Haitian squatter settlement in the capital of Nassau, Daniel Prophete, a
day laborer who arrived in the Bahamas in 1963, said he had never had any
immigration problems until 1993, when the Government began its campaign.

"The Bahamas don't want us here, but where can we go?" Mr. Prophete asked.
"Haiti is too dangerous. By taking away the work permits here, they have made it
impossible for us to work, to live here. We can do nothing, go nowhere. That's
why people are taking boats to the United States."

The impact of the new Bahamian policy is felt most strongly in South Florida,
which is only a 50-mile sail from Bimini, the westernmost island in the Bahamas
archipelago. Since late October, after the collapse of the agreement that was to
have restored Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the ousted Haitian president, boats
carrying Haitians fleeing the Bahamas have been arriving regularly in Miami
Beach, Key Biscayne, Fort Lauderdale and Palm Beach, in some cases making
landfall in broad daylight at popular beaches under the startled gaze of sun
bathers.

"Many people are leaving, and 90 percent of them are going to Florida," Joseph
Etienne, the Haitian Ambassador to the Bahamas and a supporter of Father
Aristide, said in an interview in Nassau. "The majority were waiting for
Aristide to return to power in October, hoping they could then return to Haiti,
but when that failed to materialize, they decided to leave for Florida rather
than remain here."

Limits of American Policy

Earlier this month, for instance, a group of 10 Haitians and 7 Cubans, who had
left their countries separately and met in the Bahamas, jointly obtained a boat
and sailed to Florida. The Cubans were quickly released by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service and allowed to apply for permanent residency under a
special law that treats Cubans as political refugees, but the Haitians were
detained and remain subject to deportation.

In another case just before Christmas, one group of Haitians that included
several women and infants left the Bahamas bound for Florida. When one baby died
in the arms of its mother, the woman committed suicide by jumping overboard,
according to statements by her fellow passengers to the American authorities
when the boat eventually reached Miami.

Under American law, Haitians fleeing the turmoil in their country and arriving
directly in the United States are considered economic, rather than political,
refugees unless they prove otherwise. Their situation is more complicated when
they stop first in another country, especially one like the Bahamas, which the
State Department regards as friendly and democratic.

The Haitian presence in the Bahamas has built up over three decades, as Haitians
left their country for the northern islands of New Providence, Grand Bahama and
Great Abaco, where jobs in hotels and construction, on farms and as tailors,
gardeners or day laborers were available. But as tourism, the most important
industry in the country, has flattened in recent years, sending the economy into
recession, resentment toward the Creole-speaking foreigners has increased.

In parliamentary elections in August 1992, the opposition Free National Movement
took power for the first time since the Bahamas achieved independence in 1973,
capitalizing on voters' unhappiness with the economy and official corruption. In
its manifesto, the party said "illegal immigration is a serious economic, social
and cultural problem" in a country of only 265,000 people, and it promised a
"strengthening of the Bahamianization process."

Saying the flow of immigrants "cannot forever go unchecked and uncorrected," the
party also vowed "to institute a program of detention and early repatriation of
all illegal immigrants." That effort began when the party took office and it
accelerated in 1993.

Numbers Are Unclear

Government officials and human rights groups agree there is little reliable data
about the number of Haitians in the Bahamas. Published figures range from 20,000
to 70,000, though Prime Minister Hubert Ingraham, who is from Great Abacos, and
members of his Cabinet have offered estimates of 40,000.

For that reason, it is difficult to determine how many Haitians have left for
the United States or returned to Haiti since the Government began cracking down.
But Stan Kolasa, an American priest here, said the Haitian membership in his
church, the only one for Roman Catholics on this island of less than 10,000
people, has fallen by three-quarters in the last six months. Until then, he
estimated, there were about 2,000 Haitians on the island.

"You can't even tell it's the same church or community," said Father Kolasa, who
began working with Haitians in 1970. "Families have been divided, our population
of children has been depleted and scattered, and the Haitian people who are
still here are living with the constant fear of being arbitrarily removed at
whim."

The catalyst for the exodus was a nighttime raid on homes and churches here and
on the neighboring island of Eleuthera in late May, during which about 400
Haitians, many of them women or young children, were arrested and jailed. Mr.
Etienne estimated that 40 percent of those detained in that raid have been sent
back to Haiti, some at their own expense, and he said more than 60 of the group
were still being detained in Nassau.

Sending a Message

Another diplomat in Nassau who insisted that his name not be used said: "It
appears the Government intended to send a message, and it appears that the
message has been received and understood. The Abacos raid was a scare factor to
encourage people to leave, to tell them not to settle in the Bahamas and to move
on to greener pastures."

But the news from those forced to go back to Haiti has been discouraging to
Haitians here. "Some have died, or their babies have died, or they cannot go
home and have gone into the bush because they are so scared of the repression,"
said Jean-Claude Julmisse, a Haitian community leader here. "Go to Haiti, you
have problems. Stay here, you also have problems."

Among those taken into custody in the roundup in Great Abaco was a 40-year-old
truck driver, who said he had lived in the Bahamas since he was 5 years old and
would identify himself only as Lucien. Though living in the country legally and
possessing a work permit, he said he was sent in May to Fox Hill prison in
Nassau, where he spent a month before being released.

As a result, he said, he lost his job and has been unable to renew his work
permit, since he no longer has regular employment, and there has been no
response to papers he filed seeking Bahamian citizenship. Alarmed that his
family might suffer further, he has now, through a risky series of boat trips,
sent his wife and six children, ages 2 to 16, to join relatives in Miami.

"That prison was a dirty, dangerous, stinking place," he said. "I don't want my
children to be sent there. This is not a good country to be a Haitian. They
treat us like dogs here, not like human beings. The Americans treat us like
dogs, too, but there you at least have a chance to defend yourself."

Government Response

Bahamian Government officials, though, defend the new policy. Harcourt
Turnquest, permanent secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, said in an
interview in Nassau, "This new government is enforcing the law, which we ought
to have been doing all along." Official actions against Haitians, especially
raids and roundups, are intended, he said, to "give the strong message they
ought to regularize their status or get moving."

Charles Turnquest, deputy permanent secretary of the Ministry of Justice and
Immigration and a distant relative of the Foreign Ministry official, said, "The
Government makes every effort possible to be as fair as possible" to Haitians in
the Bahamas. But, he added, they "cannot come into this country illegally and
expect to be regularized after they are here."

But human rights and religious groups complain that the policy is being applied
to Haitians who have long lived and worked legally in this country. Several
thousand children and adolescents born in the Bahamas to Haitian parents, but
not entitled to Bahamian citizenship until they reach the age of 18, are also
affected, they say, adding that some of those people have been arrested or even
deported to a "homeland" they have never seen.

"I have written numerous letters to the Prime Minister and Minister of
Immigration seeking a meeting to discuss the Haitians and the indignities and
harassment they have suffered, but to date there has never been any response,"
said T. D'Arcy Ryan, executive director of the Grand Bahama Human Rights
Association in Freeport. Speaking of the youths whose nationality is in limbo,
he added, "If someone is entitled to citizenship at 18, it seems ludicrous to
say they are not always Bahamian, having been born here."

At the Haitian squatter settlement in Nassau, residents said it was now
virtually impossible to obtain work permits or permanent residency, no matter
how long they have been in the country. Jean-Gilles Pierre, a gardener, said
that even though he had lived and worked in the Bahamas since 1973, he was now
having difficulty with his papers and was convinced that the Government wanted
him to leave.

"I cannot change Bahamas law, and I do not want to give a problem to the
American people," he said. "But if I go to Haiti, I will be killed. I would like
to stay here, but I cannot work. That leaves only the boats and Miami."


LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: "The Bahamas don't want us here, but where can we go?" asked
Daniel Prophete. "Haiti is too dangerous. By taking away the work permits here,
they have made it impossible for us to work, to live here;" The Government of
the Bahamas has instituted new policies that have led many Haitians to flee from
there to the United States. A raid on homes and churches in late May, in which
400 Haitians were arrested, many of them women and children, has struck fear
among the immigrants. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times)
(pg. 12)

Maps show the location of Marsh Harbour, the Bahamas. (pg. 12)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              299 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 2, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

THE NATION;
Now, Home Is Where the Job Is

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 955 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


IF the image of our past, whether based on myth or reality, is that the United
States welcomed immigrants, we're losing our remaining illusions. Data compiled
by the Federal Census Bureau and other demographers indicate that for
immigrants, the welcome wagon is often flanked by a "For Sale" sign."

The figures show that, with a few notable exceptions, states that are magnets to
immigrants are becoming less attractive to native-born citizens and are either
losing population or not growing as fast as they once were.

California, as it so often is, appears to be the trendsetter.

Figures out last week from the Census Bureau (and counting only legal
immigrants) show that for the year that ended July 1, 1993, California grew more
slowly than the nation as a whole for the first time in 20 years. Indeed, if it
were not for immigrants, the state would have had virtually no growth.

But California is not alone. According to a study by University of Michigan's
Population Studies Center, New York, Texas, New Jersey, Illinois and
Massachusetts, which led the nation in the numbers of immigrants in the late
1980's, have seen significant exodus, primarily of whites.

Of course, the idea of people bailing out in the face of a wave of newcomers who
look and talk differently is not new. Over the years, the flavors of countless
neighborhoods in old Eastern cities have shifted, say, from German to Irish to
Italian to Eastern European Jews to black to Latino. But recent studies suggest
that the flight is no longer merely from city to suburb, but from one state to
another.

"There seems to be something about those states that attracts immigrants from
abroad but does not attract people from within the United States," said Edwin
Byerly, an analyst with the Census Bureau.

But the question arises whether the exodus of blue-collar whites from places
like California, New York or Illinois is a reaction to immigrants or to anemic
economies.

A study on internal migration patterns among whites and minorities during the
late 1980's by William H. Frey, a University of Michigan researcher, indicates
that states like Ohio, Oklahoma, Michigan and Louisiana, which have not drawn
many immigrants, still have experienced a kind of white flight. In these cases,
whites could just as easily been leaving because of the continued problems in
the automobile or energy industries.

"I think the economic factors tend to be the most important," said Jeffrey
Passel, director of the Program for Research on Immigration Policy at the Urban
Institute. "Whether the people moving out are responding to better opportunities
at the destination, or increased competition at the point of origin, I don't
know. And it's tough to separate the two."

Larry Long, a demographer with the Census Bureau, also emphasized the importance
of job opportunities in patterns of migration. "In the early decades of the 20th
century, you had massive numbers of immigrants flowing into New York, New Jersey
and other parts of the East Coast," he said. "But you had minimum numbers of
outmigration from these areas, and the reason was the economy in the region was
growing."

While the public perception of the current exodus is that of yuppie flight from
the fast lanes of Manhattan or Century City heading for the easier pace and
fresh air of the Rockies or the desert Southwest, further sifting of the data
suggests that those pulling up stakes are, for the most part, working-class and
middle-income whites and minorities.

But their incomes have often been achieved with with minimal education or skills
-- in other words, they are among those groups that most often compete with
immigrants for low-skill, low-wage jobs. The vast majority of departing whites
hold no more than a high school diploma.

"The lower middle class, people making less than $35,000 a year, are squeezed
out of the jobs at the lower end of the spectrum," said Mr. Frey.

Boom or Blip?

For now, the number of whites moving out of these states is still small relative
to the population as a whole, indicating that what is occurring may be the
beginning of a trend or nothing more than a statistical blip, rather than a
full-blown movement akin to America's westward expansion in the 19th century or
the northward trek of Southern blacks in the 20th.

But some people, especially those pressing for immigration limits, believe that
if the trend continues it portends a new kind of national segregation, one in
which minorities and immigrants, who more often than not are also nonwhite,
would be concentrated in a few states while places like Oregon, Washington,
Utah, Arizona and Nevada become even more white.

"Places like California and New York will become even more different from the
rest of the country than they already have been," said Ira Mehlman, a spokesman
for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a group that has argued for
greatly reducing the numbers of immigrants.

The migration could also produce a group of sullen whites, and some blacks, who
perceive that they have been forced out of a job market and compelled to uproot
themselves as a result of competition by immigrants from Latin America and Asia.

In his study, Mr. Frey said a "negative reaction" of whites "to an increasingly
diverse population" is a prime factor for the movement away from states with
large numbers of immigrants.

As it grows such a group could become a political force that would not only be
against further immigration but any Federal initiative, from foreign aid to the
North American Free Trade Agreement, that smacks of helping people from beyond
America's borders. And would that change what America is and how it thinks of
itself?

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Illustration: (John Cayea)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              300 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 3, 1994, Monday, Late Edition - Final

Revise U.S. Refugee Policy on Haiti and Cuba

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 302 words


To the Editor:

The arrival in Miami of a mixed group of Cuban and Haitian boat people from the
Bahamas (news article, Dec. 20) not only underscores "how differently refugees
from the two Caribbean countries are treated under United States immigration
law," but also points to a gross anomaly in this country's refugee policy.

Though Cubans and Haitians are fleeing in growing numbers, neither group is
given access to refugee processing facilities abroad where they can apply for
refugee admission to the United States (unless they are Fidel Castro's daughter,
as a Dec. 23 article reports). Small wonder that more and more Cubans and
Haitians resort to risky, unconventional means of making it to our shores.

For some time Cuban and Haitian persecutees have not been considered "a special
humanitarian concern" to the United States under the terms of our refugee laws,
unless they still reside in Cuba or Haiti, where so-called in-country processing
has been made available. Thus, leaving aside the obvious limitation of any
program conducted under the watchful eyes of the persecuting authorities, Cubans
and Haitians can come to the United States as refugees only as long as they do
not actually become refugees.

This absurd situation is not what Congress had in mind when it authorized in the
Refugee Act of 1980 the direct admission of persecuted people from their
respective countries. There is no rational justification to deny Cuban and
Haitian refugees, wherever they may be, the right to apply for admission under
established screening procedures.

One can only hope that the Administration will not continue to deny them what is
available for refugees from so many other "designated nationalities."

ROBERT P. DEVECCHI
President, Intl. Rescue Committee
New York, Dec. 23, 1993

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              301 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 4, 1994, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final

6 Haitian Refugees Still Detained a Year Later

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 767 words

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 3


More than a year after fleeing Haiti, six refugees seeking asylum sit in the
Orleans Parish Jail here, neither accused of a crime nor free to leave.

Advocates for refugees say that all six have relatives who are willing to take
them in while their cases are heard but that they are trapped by unreasonable
bails. Immigration officials say the bails are on par with those in similar
cases.

The six, who are being detained by the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
are the last of some 300 refugees who were transferred from the agency's main
center in Miami a year ago to reduce overcrowding. The others, who were
scattered among local jails and Federal centers in northern Florida, Texas and
Louisiana, have been released on bond or their own recognizance to family
members in New York and Florida.

Bonds Up to $4,000

The six Haitians have not committed any crime; nor, with one exception, have
they been found eligible for deportation. No comparable Haitian refugees have
been incarcerated as long as the New Orleans group, said Ira Kurzban, a Miami
lawyer who works on behalf of refugees from Haiti.

The six, Saint-Ober Cheri, Evenek Gaspard, Saint-Vitel Alcime, Brillant
Vainqueur, Therese Etienne and Aliana Petit-Fort, have bails set at $1,000 to
$4,000, which Steven Forester, a lawyer with the Haitian Refugee Center, a
Haitian advocacy group in Miami, contends is unreasonably high and more than
their families can afford.

By contrast, Haitians detained in Harlingen, Tex., who have already been
released had bails set mostly at $1,000, Mr. Forester said, an assertion
supported by an immigration lawyer who represented refugees there. But an
immigration spokesman in Harlingen disputed that account, saying some Haitians
there had to post bonds up to $5,000. An immigration spokesman in Miami, George
Waldroup, said he had "absolutely" heard of bond amounts in that range.

Mr. Forester has written to the new Immigration and Naturalization Service
Commissioner, Doris Meissner, seeking the Haitians' release. He has also secured
a letter from the Congressional Black Caucus on their behalf.

Mr. Forester accused the immigration agency's district director in Louisiana,
John Caplinger, of being arbitrary in his treatment of the Haitians. "He's just
very, very slow, and very non-desirous of releasing these people," Mr. Forester
said.

Rick Kenney, an agency spokesman in Washington, said the bails had been set in
accord with regulations.

Concern About Detainee

Negotiations with the Department of Justice to release the Haitians from jail
during the Christmas holiday broke down. Mr. Forester said immigration officials
last week withdrew without explanation an offer to release five of the six. But
a spokesman for the Justice Department, Carl Stern, said it was Mr. Forester
himself who had rejected the five-out-of-six offer.

Officials balked at releasing the sixth, Mr. Cheri, because, Mr. Forester said,
Mr. Cheri had remarked to an immigration judge that he would rather die in Haiti
than remain in jail, a remark that was taken as a request to be deported. His
lawyer has challenged the decision to deport him.

Immigration officials accused the Haitians' advocates of prolonging their
incarceration by postponing asylum hearings because of a lawsuit against the
Justice Department. The suit seeks to insure that the hearings are held in major
cities, instead of remote places like Oakdale, La., the site of a Federal
detention center where some Haitians were kept initially.

"One has to wonder why it is that we don't proceed," said Duke Austin, a
spokesman for the immigration service in Washington. "What do we gain by holding
these people here indefinitely? Nothing, except continued expense and
frustration. Whose interest is it that these cases do not move forward?"

Mr. Forester defended the suit, saying it was important that hearings be held
where Haitians could have access to lawyers and witnesses. Haitians seeking
asylum are usually detained at the Krome Avenue Detention Immigration Facility
in Miami, where 63 are being held.

Meanwhile, the Haitians in jail here are isolated and unable to exercise, said
Margaret Roumer, a local advocate for Haitians who visits them regularly. Before
being brought here several months ago, the Haitians were detained in a jail in
rural Avoyelles Parish, where there was some opportunity for exercise.

Their morale is "very, very low these days," Ms. Roumer said. "They have been
there so long. It's just sitting there doing nothing day and night. Here, they
don't even go outside."



LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              302 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 5, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

HEALTH WATCH;
Charcoal Hazard

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section C; Page 12; Column 6; National Desk; Health Page

LENGTH: 127 words


People, especially immigrants, are still being poisoned by charcoal gas despite
warnings against using charcoal indoors, researchers say.

Researchers at the Virginia Mason Medical Center in Seattle suggested that
warning graphics or multilingual advisories be added to the warning labels on
charcoal bags.

The study, being published today in The Journal of the American Medical
Association, reports on 79 patients -- 73 percent from racial or ethnic
minorities -- poisoned by carbon monoxide from indoor charcoal fires from 1983
to 1993. No deaths occurred in those cases, but 800 to 1,000 people die from
unintentional carbon monoxide poisoning in the United States each year. It is
not known how many of the deaths are related to charcoal use.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              303 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 9, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CONEY ISLAND;
Parking Worries Block Plans For a Clinic

BYLINE: By Lynette Holloway

SECTION: Section 13;  Page 8;  Column 3;  The City Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 163 words


A plan to open a health clinic for Russian immigrants has been put on hold
indefinitely amid protests from Manhattan Beach residents, who said it would
create a parking disaster.

Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center officials last week began studying other
possible sites outside Manhattan Beach on which to build the clinic, which would
serve 8,000 patients, said Harold Harris, a hospital spokesman.

The move comes about a month after the Health Systems Agency of New York City
recommended that the State Department of Health deny operating permits to the
clinic because medical center officials did not consult residents before
deciding to put the clinic at 122 West End Avenue.

Residents complained that the clinic would complicate already serious parking
problems. In the summer, residents say, they compete with beachgoers for
parking, and in the winter, they must vie for spots with cars from Kingsborough
Community College and two other schools.
   L.H.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              304 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 22, 1994, Saturday, Late Edition - Final

Bahamas Burdened by Haitian Refugees

SECTION: Section 1; Page 20; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 501 words


To the Editor:

Re your Jan. 2 front-page report that the Bahamas are forcing Haitian refugees
to flee to the United States: The situation of Haitian nationals illegally in
the Bahamas is indeed difficult, one that Bahamian Governments have faced,
without help from the international community, for more than 30 years.

Large numbers of unplanned, illegal immigrants in a small community create
nearly unbearable burdens on health, welfare and educational institutions and
facilities. The poor health and educational state of the vast majority of
Creole-speaking Haitians arriving in the English-speaking Bahamas is especially
expensive.

No apology is made for strict observance of our laws, which require any person
not a citizen of the Bahamas to acquire an appropriate permit to reside or
engage in gainful work.

The fee scale for such permits reflects a policy to encourage employment of
Bahamian citizens and the demand for certain skills in the country. The fee
scale is not influenced by nationality, race, gender or religion. Permits, when
granted, may be paid for by applicants or employers.

The Government is concerned that the lax observance of immigration laws in the
Bahamas permitted large numbers of illegal immigrants to remain in the country,
sometimes in excess of 20 years. This practice, sometimes exercised as a
kindness toward people seeking a better life, and sometimes convenient to the
desire for cheap manual labor, has left large numbers of primarily Haitians in
immigration limbo.

Unscrupulous people have extorted money from these Haitians for promises of
employment, housing and onward passage to Florida. The Bahamas Government is
dedicated to ridding our society of such practices. This is done by prosecuting
those who act illegally and reducing the large numbers of illegal immigrants.

The Bahamas would welcome the assistance of other countries in repatriating
illegal immigrants to their country of origin or assisting their legal
settlement in a third country.

The Government prefers not to hold illegal immigrants in the general prison.
Plans are under way to establish an immigration detention center.

The Bahamas Government does not encourage or condone mistreatment of illegal
immigrants, nor confiscation or wanton destruction of their personal property.
The law requires that housing structures erected contrary to the Building
Regulations Act be removed.

The Bahamas Government is further committed to regularizing the status of many
of the illegal immigrants who have established permanent ties in the community,
many intermarrying with Bahamians and many who have sought to obtain immigration
status in the country.

The Bahamas is an open country with a democratic Government. We invite those
interested to visit the Bahamas and learn from Government departments and
agencies the impact and consequences of an illegal immigrant population in the
Bahamas.

TIMOTHY B. DONALDSON
Ambassador of the Bahamas
Washington, Jan. 11, 1994

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              305 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 23, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Corrections

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 29 words


An article on Jan. 9 about a program in New Haven to resettle immigrants from
the former Soviet Union misspelled the surname of a tutor. She is Joyce Donen
Hirschhorn.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              306 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 26, 1994, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final

Can We Afford So Many Unskilled Immigrants?

SECTION: Section A;  Page 20;  Column 4;  Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 488 words


To the Editor:

Anthony Lewis claims in "The Politics of Nativism" (column, Jan. 14) that Julian
Simon showed in The Wall Street Journal last year that immigrants do not take
the jobs of the native born and that the average immigrant family pays $2,500
more in taxes annually than it receives in public services.

Professor Simon and Mr. Lewis are clearly wrong on both accounts. George Borjas,
a national researcher, wrote in the National Review for Dec. 13, 1993, that Mr.
Simon's calculation was quite wrong. Mr. Simon has both immigrants and natives
running a surplus. Since welfare programs are supposed to redistribute income
from some groups to others, both cannot be running a surplus.

Mr. Lewis overlooks other soundly based estimates of public service costs. For
example, the Rand Corporation, hardly a nativist anti-immigrant group, found
that each permanent Mexican immigrant in California had a public service deficit
of more than $1,000 annually in 1982.

My own recent national study found that the annual after-tax deficit of
post-1970 immigrants, both legal and illegal, exceeds $2,000 per immigrant -- a
total cost of more than $42 billion. Comparatively, the native born had a
surplus on public services after taxation.

This is not surprising. Data from the 1990 Census show that the poverty rate of
post-1970 immigrants is 42 percent higher than that of the native born. An
immigrant's probability of receiving public assistance, adjusted by the amount
of assistance received, is 44 percent greater than that of the native born. High
welfare usage, combined with low earnings (meaning low taxes), means that
immigrants must run a public-service deficit that is financed by the native born
with low welfare and higher earnings (meaning higher taxes).

Professor Simon's long-held belief that immigrants do not displace Americans in
the labor market has been repudiated by a number of careful studies in recent
years. A consensus is developing (Huddle, Altonji and Card, Walker, Ellis and
Barf) that for each six to seven immigrants, one unskilled or blue-collar job is
lost to Americans. As Richard Bean of the University of Texas recently showed,
slow growth areas are particularly prone to labor displacement. As in California
during the 1990's, many native born, according to Randy Filer in a National
Bureau of Economic Research study, end up fleeing the region to avoid job losses
and falling wage levels.

Although immigration is more than dollars and cents, we still must be more aware
of the affordability issue of large-scale unskilled immigration from the third
world. No doubt, however, pro-immigration advocates such as Dr. Simon and Mr.
Lewis will be willing to dig a little deeper into their pockets during income
tax season to help offset our national budget deficit.

DONALD L. HUDDLE
Houston, Jan. 18, 1994
The writer is professor emeritus of economics at Rice University.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              307 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 27, 1994, Thursday, Late Edition - Final

Thinking Globally;
A Little City Trolls for Trade

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1305 words

DATELINE: EAST ORANGE, N.J.


With new trade agreements breaking down the barriers between continents and
nations, consider the case of East Orange. After decades of economic malaise,
this city is making an unlikely pitch to be a center of global commerce.

East Orange, one of the New York area's oldest commuter suburbs, has no large
manufacturers, holds little appeal to office developers and has not had the
success of other New Jersey suburbs in luring business from Manhattan.

What it does have is a high concentration of African-American residents,
including about 2,000 immigrants from the West African nation of Ghana. And it
was these residents, including E. K. Sam, a software designer, who helped push
the extraordinary international venture of a trade mission linking New Jersey
and Ghana.

"There are a lot of opportunities in developing countries," said Mr.  Sam, who
is president of SIU Software Solutions, based here. "They have often been
overlooked by American business, to its own detriment."

The mission to Ghana for two weeks in September has produced these results so
far: a $57 million contract, nearly completed, to shore up part of Ghana's
eroded coast line, several bids by New Jersey companies to sell computer
equipment in Ghana, agreements to import pineapples and other food from Ghana
and a student exchange agreement between Upsala College here and the three
universities of Ghana.

For Love of Country

"I worried that we would be perceived as just a small town," said Cardell
Cooper, the Mayor of East Orange, a city of 72,000 people wedged between Newark
and Montclair. The Mayor, who was among 44 people in the trade mission, said all
but $20,000 of the $250,000 cost of the mission was paid by companies that
participated. East Orange put up $5,000; $15,000 came from the state.

Now, Mr. Cooper said, "We've established a great opportunity and I hope this
gets the attention of the White House."

Although Presidential laurels may be premature, East Orange's early success in
Ghana reflects the economic power of cities that can call upon the cultural
links of their own immigrant populations.

"One lesson is that ethnic groups can bring a lot to the table, and they will do
so for the love of their native countries as well as the United States," said
Phil Ferzan, the director of the New Jersey Division of International Trade, who
traveled to Ghana with the East Orange mission.

A Main-Street Influence

Mr. Ferzan said that trip has already produced better results than any of the
other four missions New Jersey has sent abroad since 1990, to Russia, Italy,
Japan and Mexico.

Fully 95 percent of East Orange's residents are African-Americans, Mayor Cooper
said, giving it a higher percentage of residents of African descent than any
United States city besides East St. Louis, Ill. And while most people here are
natives of the United States, East Orange has been a magnet for immigrants for
more than two decades.

Most obvious, particularly along the city's Main Street business district, is
the influence of its immigrants from the Caribbean. Scattered along the
commercial strip are such businesses as Dalies West Indian Restaurant, Hacotrans
Le Caurrier D'Haiti, a travel agency, and a clothing store that promotes itself
as "Things Jamaican."

Although less prominent on Main Street, East Orange's immigrants from Ghana have
been growing rapidly in numbers and political influence. They come from a nation
where the government has been revamped over the last two years by democratic
reforms and where economic development has outpaced most of West Africa.

Mr. Sam said people from Ghana, who have also established enclaves in Brooklyn
and Newark, are attracted to East Orange because of its large homes and suburban
tranquillity and because they can share some of the cultural and tribal
traditions of their homeland here, including feasts and elaborate rituals to
accompany births and deaths.

Suggestion of a Queen

With its peculiar amalgam of West African culture and suburban life, people here
say East Orange has an advantage in wooing business in Ghana. Their trade
mission was suggested first by visitors from Ghana to East Orange.

They included two of Ghana's most powerful tribal leaders, Osagyefo Nana
Kuntukununku II, king of the Akyem people, and Nana Doua II, queen of Akuapem
State, both of whom have visited since 1992 during diplomatic forays.

By lucky cultural coincidence, many of East Orange's immigrants are members of
Queen Doua's tribe, including Mr. Sam's wife, Philomena, who emigrated from
Ghana in 1986 and who operates a store here that specializes in colorful kente
cloth and other Ghanaian fabrics.

"My greatest goal is to promote African culture here," Mrs. Sam said.  Her
efforts were given a major boost by Queen Doua, who had been expected to make a
brief stopover in East Orange, but instead stayed for two weeks and encouraged
business people here to pursue new trade links with her country.

What followed was a grass-roots effort, orchestrated by the Sams and other
Ghanaian immigrants, to sell New Jersey on the idea of a trade mission to their
homeland. After winning the support of Mayor Cooper and others in East Orange,
and then of the Governor, Jim Florio, the group enlisted business people from
across New Jersey.

The group went prepared with gifts. East Orange Day care centers, hospitals and
the city's library donated medical supplies, toys and books.

Mayor Cooper said the group was far from the only trade mission trying to lure
business in Ghana; others from China, Japan and several European nations had
been courting the country aggressively.

Breakthrough on a Contract

But it became clear to the New Jerseyans that they had made a good impression by
their third day in Ghana, when Jerry Rawlings, who has been Ghana's President
since 1979, met with them for over three hours to discuss Ghana's economy and
trade.

"We expected a few minutes and a photo opportunity," said Mayor Cooper, whose
offices here are now strewn with clippings from Ghanaian newspapers that covered
his group's travels in their country. After meeting with Mr. Rawlings, the group
was invited to meet with several of his Government's senior officials for trade
and economic development.

By far the biggest beneficiary of the mission has been Breakwaters International
of Flemington, N.J., an eight-year-old engineering companythat installs huge
concrete offshore reefs, and had been vying with several foreign companies for
work on a severely eroded and densely populated stretch of Ghana's coast.

"The trade mission created an atmosphere that made this happen for us," said
Richard Creter, Breakwaters' president. Although a final contract has not been
signed, he said the company has letters of intent from President Rawlings's
administration to proceed with a $57 million contract.

That would mean the creation of 300 jobs in New Jersey, he said, where cranes
and other construction equipment would be manufactured for the Ghanaian project.

Other trading agreements that result from the trip are expected to be smaller. A
Matawan company hopes to import a species of Ghanaian pineapples that it hopes
to market as a sweeter alternative to those from Hawaii. Mr. Sam's company is
negotiating with Ghana's electric utility to provide computerized billing
services. A Morristown computer company has put in its bid to provide Ghana's
first "800" telephone number service.

Perhaps the smallest of the new trade links is between Ghana and Mrs. Sam, who
is preparing a vacant storefront next to her kente cloth boutique to be used as
a distribution center for dried casava, okra, palm oil and other foods from
Ghana. She said she expected a ready market among West African immigrants
throughout New York City and its suburbs.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos: The cultural as well as economic ties between East Orange,
N.J., and Ghana are seen in the clothes Philomena Sam sells in her shop. Her
"greatest goal" is promoting African culture. (pg. B1); In East Orange, N.J.,
the high concentration of African-American residents, including about 2,000
immigrants from the West African nation of Ghana, has led to a trade mission
linking New Jersey and Ghana. At a local clothing shop, the attire mirrors the
ties between two distant partners. (Julio A. Ibarra Jr. for The New York Times)
(pg. B6)

Maps show the location of East Orange, New Jersey and of Ghana. (pg. B6)

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              308 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 January 30, 1994, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Coast Guard Takes 56 Haitians off Freighter

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 264 words

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, Jan. 29


Fifty-six Haitians were brought ashore today after the Coast Guard intercepted
their wooden boat off Miami Beach, officials said.

The Haitians were turned over to the Immigration and Naturalization Service and
were to be held at an detention center while officials considered their
political asylum claims.

The 60-foot wooden freighter was spotted after hotel guests alerted police that
a rowboat full of Haitians had come ashore at 3:45 A.M.

Miami police officers took nine Haitians from the rowboat into custody and
turned them over to immigration officers. Several others may have escaped after
reaching shore by rowing or swimming, the authorities said.
 The rowboat had come from the freighter, which was dragging anchor and in
danger of running aground, the Coast Guard said.
 "We immediately sent several patrol boats and helicopters to make sure there
weren't any people in danger," Petty Officer Joe Dye said.
 The freighter was towed out to deeper waters a mile offshore, where the Coast
Guard provided the passengers with food and water and spent the day questioning
them.

Mr. Dye said the Haitians appeared to be in good health. They told investigators
they had been at sea about three days, suggesting they may have come via the
Bahamas rather than directly from Haiti, 600 miles away.
 About 40,000 Haitians have fled their homeland in small and large vessels since
the 1991 military coup. In recent months, increasing numbers of Haitians have
paid boat captains to smuggle them into Florida from the Bahamas, Border Patrol
officials have said.


LOAD-DATE: January 30, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company


                              309 of 309 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  July 18, 1993, Sunday, Late Edition - Final

Thomas Mann's Daughter an Informer

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY,  Special to The New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: BONN, July 17


The United States Government used Erika Mann, the daughter and biographer of the
German writer Thomas Mann, as a willing informer on fellow refugees from Nazi
Germany during World War II, then sought to deport her as a suspected Communist
sympathizer during the height of the cold war, newly declassified documents
show.

Alexander Stephan, a professor of German literature at the University of Florida
in Gainesville, discovered Miss Mann's shifting relationship with the Government
when he gained access to 10,000 pages of the Federal Bureau of Investigation's
classified files through the Freedom of Information Act. He published excerpts
from F.B.I. files this month in neue deutsche literatur, the German review.

Not Enough Evidence to Deport

Dr. Stephan said that despite Miss Mann's apparently eager cooperation with the
F.B.I. and despite her repeated denials of ties to Communists, the Immigration
and Naturalization Service wanted to deport her in 1951. He said neither the
I.N.S. nor the F.B.I. ever found enough evidence to start proceedings to do so.
Miss Mann died in 1969 at the age of 63.

Dr. Stephan, who is writing a book on the F.B.I.'s surveillance of exiled German
intellectuals during the war, said the bureau kept files on Thomas Mann, who had
won the Nobel prize in literature in 1929; his brother, Heinrich, and Bertolt
Brecht, Lion Feuchtwanger, Anna Seghers "and just about all the exiled German
writers you can think of."

"They were interested in Germans because of possible infiltration by saboteurs
during the war, and later because of the possible connection with Communism,"
Dr. Stephan said.

A Meeting in New York

The documents indicate that Miss Mann, then in her mid-30's, made contact with
Solicitor General Francis Biddle in 1940, offering to help identify saboteurs
among German refugees. Mr. Biddle called the F.B.I. Director, J. Edgar Hoover,
who had an agent meet with her in New York City, where she lived at the Bedford
Hotel on East 40th Street.

"Miss Mann thought that she could be of some value in obtaining information
concerning the German refugees coming to this country," an F.B.I. document
reported in 1941.

Another document from the Director's office reported, "During the war, she was
frequently contacted by the New York Office on her own initiative and furnished
information regarding German matters." Dr. Stephan said that the files he saw
did not identify by name any of the German refugees on whom she had informed,
but that they made clear that she provided information to the F.B.I. for years.

"It is unclear," Dr. Stephan wrote, "why Erika Mann, of her own free will and
over such a long period of time, brought information and potential collaborators
to J. Edgar Hoover's F.B.I."

Whatever Miss Mann's motives, the bureau kept an increasingly wary eye on her.

After the war, she moved to California, where her father had settled. A report
describing an agent's interview with her near Los Angeles in 1951, printed in
full in Dr. Stephan's article, describes an interrogation not only about Miss
Mann's activities but about those of her father, who had become a citizen. At
one point she was questioned about whether Thomas Mann had supported Henry A.
Wallace's Progressive Party campaign for the Presidency in 1948. (He had not,
she told the agent.)

Miss Mann's file contained many anonymous denunciations of her as a leftist
sympathizer or Communist "fellow traveler," said Dr. Stephan, who earned his
Ph.D. from Princeton University. One such anonymous informer, he said, asserted
that Miss Mann was "responsible for the 'leftist' writings attributed to her
father and her uncle."

A Marriage to W. H. Auden

The F.B.I. files found ways to taint Miss Mann with even innocent facts. For
example, she and the English writer W. H. Auden had agreed to marry in 1936 to
ease Miss Mann's escape from the Nazis by making her eligible for a British
passport. The F.B.I. listed "Mrs. Wystan H. Auden" as one of her many "aliases"
and described the marriage as one of convenience.

But in 1951, when the British spies Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean defected to
Moscow, F.B.I. agents around the country were asked to find Miss Mann to learn
what she knew about the defectors from her acquaintance with Auden. They found
that it was very little, Dr. Stephan said.

After her father settled in Switzerland in 1952, Miss. Mann withdrew her
application for United States citizenship and moved there with him. He died in
1955.

NAME: Erika Mann

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 1993

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo: Erika Mann in a 1940 photo. Declassified documents show she was
an informer for the United States during World War II. (The New York Times)

TYPE: Biography

                   Copyright 1993 The New York Times Company
