
                               1 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Setback for Arizona's New Immigration Law

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 282 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Judge Blocks Arizona's Law on Immigrants'' (front page, July 29):

Americans should applaud Judge Susan Bolton's rejection of the more inflammatory
parts of Arizona's immigration enforcement law and the racist undertones it
represents.

Gov. Jan Brewer's groundless generalizations about the undocumented population
foment fear of the unknown among her constituents, making for good politics but
bad policy. The sudden surge in scapegoating of undocumented immigrants diverts
attention from the real, well-documented problems currently facing the nation.

Rather than using money and sound bites to take aim at a demographic that boosts
economic development and has no correlation with criminal activity, Ms. Brewer
and other governors should be rallying support to address issues that actually
pose a threat to the stability of American democracy: an eroding public
education system, unprecedented global climate change and, perhaps most
important, a broken political system that prizes sensationalism over sensible
reasoning.

Jeffrey D. Stein Florence, Ariz., July 29, 2010

To the Editor:

Re ''Showdown in Arizona'' (editorial, July 29):

Once again the will of the people is overturned by a liberal judge. The federal
government has no intention of enforcing the laws against illegal immigration.
It will punish those states that try, leaving them at the mercy of the gangs,
kidnappers, drug smugglers and human traffickers that freely cross our southern
border.

What is amazing to me is the lengths to which liberals will go in arguing for
''rights'' that illegal aliens have. You are so out of touch with the majority
of this country.

John Pate Santa Barbara, Calif., July 29, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Foreign Stimulus

BYLINE: By PIA ORRENIUS and MADELINE ZAVODNY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 702 words



HIGHLIGHT: Pia Orrenius, a research officer at the Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas, and Madeline Zavodny, a professor of economics at Agnes Scott College,
are the authors of ''Beside the Golden Door: U.S. Immigration Reform in a New
Era of Globalization.''


THE debate over Arizona's controversial immigration law and Congress's passage
last month of another border security bill gives the impression that the only
problem with our immigration policy is its inability to keep people from
entering the country illegally. Not so. The country has an antiquated,
jerry-built immigration system that fails on almost every count. The good news
is that there is a way to replace it that will promote economic growth while
reducing the flow of illegal workers.

First, work-based visas should become the norm in immigration, not the
exception. The United States issues about 1.1 million green cards a year and
allocates roughly 85 percent to family members of American citizens or legal
residents, people seeking humanitarian refuge and ''diversity immigrants,'' who
come from countries with low rates of immigration to the United States.

The remaining 15 percent go to people who are immigrating for work reasons --
but half of these are for workers' spouses and children, leaving a mere 7
percent for so-called principal workers, most of whom are highly skilled. No
other major Western economy gives such a low priority to employment-based
immigration, and for good reason: these immigrants are the most skilled and
least likely to be a burden on taxpayers.

With so few slots allocated to work-based green cards, wait times continue to
grow. Immigrants typically enter on temporary visas and adjust to permanent
status over time. But most green card categories have strict numerical limits
that fall far short of the number of immigrants on temporary visas who wish to
stay. The most recent data suggest that 1.1 million approved applicants are
waiting for employment-based green cards. Immigrants from China and India are
among the most adversely affected because, in general, no more than 7 percent of
green cards can be allotted each year to applicants from any one country.

There is a better way. Provisional work-based visas, sponsored by employers and
valid as long as the holder has a job, should replace green cards as the primary
path to legal immigration. These visas should not be subject to country quotas
and should be open-ended, so that people who don't seek permanent residency will
not get kicked out of the country, as happens now.

The visas would be ''portable'' -- that is, the holder wouldn't be tied to one
employer -- to ensure that workers are treated fairly. But because these visas
would be tied to employment, immigrants would have to leave the country if the
economy deteriorated and they couldn't find work.

In place of our current system's lotteries and ''first-come, first-served''
policies, the government should hold regular auctions where companies can bid
for permits to bring in foreign workers. Employers would bid highest for the
most-valued workers, creating a selection mechanism that wouldn't rely on the
judgment of bureaucrats or the paperwork skills of immigration lawyers.

Separate auctions would be run for high- and low-skilled workers, because permit
prices would depend on prospective wages. Bringing low-skilled workers into the
program is vital to stemming illegal immigration, as the current system's lack
of sufficient visas for the low-skilled is a main reason that people cross the
border illegally.

These auctions would be more efficient than the current system because they
would respond to changes in labor demand. When prices rose, the government could
react by increasing the number of permits, better syncing immigration with the
business cycle. Work-based immigration would rise with economic growth and fall
with rising unemployment.

Finally, the auctions would provide the government with new revenue in an era of
huge deficits. Some of that money might be used to offset costs incurred by
states or localities with large numbers of immigrants, or to retrain American
workers displaced by immigration.

For the past two decades, policy makers have tinkered on the margins of the
immigration system, reacting to the latest crisis or political priority. Greater
emphasis on work-based immigration as part of a coherent immigration process
would go a long way to enhance our economy's competitiveness and the nation's
well-being.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JEANNE VERDOUX)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Backs Illegal Immigrant Students

BYLINE: By IAN LOVETT

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 533 words


LOS ANGELES -- In a unanimous decision, the California Supreme Court ruled
Monday that illegal immigrants can be eligible for the same reduced tuition at
public colleges and universities as legal residents of the state.

The ruling is the latest in a series of high-profile battles about state
immigration policies. In addition to Arizona's strict new immigration law, which
the United States Department of Justice has challenged in court, nine other
states have laws similar to California's, with lawsuits pending in Nebraska and
Texas.

Currently, students who attend at least three years of high school in California
and graduate are eligible for in-state tuition at public schools, which can save
them as much as $12,000 a year compared with students who come from other
states.

Illegal immigrants remain ineligible for state or federal financial aid.

The California court ruled that the 2001 state law does not conflict with a
federal prohibition on education benefits for illegal immigrants based on
residency, in part because United States citizens from other states who attend
high school in California may also benefit.

''It cannot be the case that states may never give a benefit to unlawful aliens
without giving the same benefit to all American citizens,'' wrote Justice Ming
W. Chin, one of the court's more conservative justices, in the court's opinion.

Kris Kobach, the legal scholar who helped draft Arizona's immigration law,
argued the case on behalf of American citizens from other states who were not
eligible for reduced tuition -- his latest effort to enact tough illegal
immigration policies in states across the country. He said his side would appeal
the ruling to the United States Supreme Court.

''I think the pendulum is definitely swinging in favor of enforcement of the law
and discouraging illegal immigration,'' Mr. Kobach said. ''I am confident this
is not the last word on the subject.''

In California, Latinos now make up more than half of all students in public
schools, according to the State Department of Education, and strong support from
Latinos helped Democrats here fare better than they did in most other states in
this year's midterm elections.

Supporters of immigration overhaul hope that legislation that would offer some
illegal immigrant students access to federal financial aid and a path toward
citizenship will be taken up again in the lame-duck session of Congress that
convened Monday.

''This law makes higher education affordable for so many students who have the
added difficulty of not being eligible for federal financial aid,'' said Thomas
A. Saenz, president and general counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense
and Educational Fund. ''If they are both ineligible for aid and then face higher
tuition rates, it becomes virtually impossible for students to go on to higher
education.''

Kevin R. Johnson, dean of the law school at the University of California, Davis,
said that the ruling might discourage future lawsuits in other states with
similar laws, but that litigation about students who are illegal immigrants
would continue.

''This issue is not going to go away,'' Professor Johnson said. ''It's going to
require some Congressional action.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Sues Arizona Over Its Immigration Law

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Charlie Savage contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 745 words


The Justice Department filed a lawsuit on Tuesday against Arizona to challenge a
new state law intended to combat illegal immigration, arguing that it would
undermine the federal government's pursuit of terrorists, gang members and other
criminal immigrants.

The suit, filed in federal court in Phoenix, had been expected since mid-June,
when Obama administration officials first disclosed they would contest the
Arizona law, adding to several other suits seeking to have courts strike it
down.

The federal government added its weight to the core argument in those suits,
which contend that the Arizona law usurps powers to control immigration reserved
for federal authorities. The main suit was brought by the American Civil
Liberties Union, the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund and
other civil rights groups.

The Justice Department argues the law would divert federal and local law
enforcement officers by making them focus on people who may not have committed
crimes, and by causing the ''detention and harassment of authorized visitors,
immigrants and citizens.''

''Arizonans are understandably frustrated with illegal immigration,'' Attorney
General Eric H. Holder Jr. said. ''But diverting federal resources away from
dangerous aliens such as terrorism suspects and aliens with criminal records
will impact the entire country's safety.''

The Justice Department suit is also aimed at stemming a tide of similar laws
under consideration in other states. ''The Constitution and the federal
immigration laws do not permit the development of a patchwork of state and local
immigration policies throughout the country,'' the suit says.

Justice Department officials are ''sending an unmistakable cannon shot across
the bow of any other state that might be tempted to follow Arizona's misguided
approach,'' said Lucas Guttentag, director of the Immigrants' Rights Project for
the A.C.L.U.

The Justice Department asked for a court injunction to prevent the Arizona law
from taking effect as scheduled on July 29. Hearings in the other cases are
scheduled for July 15 and 22. The law, signed by Gov. Jan Brewer on April 23,
makes it a crime to be an illegal immigrant in the state and requires officers
to determine the immigration status of people they stop for another offense
based on a ''reasonable suspicion'' that they might be illegal immigrants.

Ms. Brewer assailed the federal lawsuit. ''As a direct result of failed and
inconsistent federal enforcement, Arizona is under attack from violent Mexican
drug and immigrant smuggling cartels,'' she said. ''Now, Arizona is under attack
in federal court from President Obama and his Department of Justice.''

White House officials said Mr. Obama was not involved in the Justice
Department's decision to sue. But the suit came after steps by Mr. Obama in an
effort to frame the immigration debate in terms that  will favor Democrats in
advance of midterm elections in November, including a speech on Thursday when he
restated his commitment to overhaul legislation that would give legal status to
millions of illegal immigrants.

The suit deepened the controversy over the Arizona law. Representative Darrell
Issa, Republican of California, said the president was wasting resources that
should be spent controlling the Southwest border.

''For President Obama to stand in the way of a state which has taken action to
stand up for its citizens against the daily threat of violence and fear is
disgraceful and a betrayal of his Constitutional obligation to protect our
citizens,'' said Mr. Issa, one of 19 Republicans signing a letter criticizing
the suit.

Kris Kobach, a lawyer and consultant to Ms. Brewer who is a co-author of the
Arizona statute, said it was tailored to complement federal law. The Justice
Department's suit is ''unnecessary,'' he said, and ''the suspicion is this is
more about politics than law.''

In a background call with reporters, a senior department official said the
decision to file the lawsuit -- and to do so on the ground that it pre-empts
federal authority, rather than on civil rights grounds like racial profiling --
followed extensive deliberations with the Civil Rights Division and others
inside the department, and a trip to Arizona to meet with state officials.

Should the department fail to persuade the courts to block Arizona's law, the
official said, it would closely watch for signs that people of Hispanic
appearance were being singled out.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Pre-emption, Not Profiling, in Challenge to Arizona

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 907 words


PHOENIX -- In the public outcry that followed passage of Arizona's new
immigration law, President Obama and other critics worried that it would lead to
racial profiling. But while that concern has dominated the public debate and
inspired a round of boycotts of the state, it played little role in the actual
legal challenge the administration filed Tuesday against the law.

The word profiling appears only once, in passing, in the Justice Department's
lawsuit against the law, which allows the police to demand legal papers from
those its officers think might be illegal immigrants.

And while the lawsuit does argue against a patchwork of state immigration laws
Mr. Obama has fretted over, the idea that legal residents and citizens might
find themselves swept up in Arizona's enforcement, which is intended to
discourage illegal immigrants from coming and prompt those here to leave, is not
a central argument.

In this case it is clear the administration's arguments in the court of public
opinion took a backseat to those expected in the actual courtroom.

Justice Department officials and legal experts say the government, political
consequences aside, faced up to cold legal practicalities. Racial profiling
claims are difficult enough to prove, let alone before a law takes effect, and
there are no  examples that prosecutors can point to of legal citizens whose
lives were disrupted by the Arizona law because they looked like an illegal
immigrant to a police officer.

Dennis Burke, the United States attorney here, said in an interview that
focusing the case on ''pre-emption,'' the legal doctrine based on the
Constitution's supremacy clause that elevates federal law over states', was the
surest route to suspending the law before it goes into effect July 29. The
federal government has successfully used the pre-emption argument in several
cases, but this would be the biggest test in an immigration case.

''The supremacy clause and a pre-emption argument require no waiting for the law
to be actually in implementation,'' Mr. Burke said. ''It doesn't allow the
defense to say, 'They are in here too early, judge, this should be allowed to
play out for a while.' ''

The Arizona law, known as SB 1070, requires police officers to check the papers
of people they stop or arrest if  suspicious of their immigration status and
makes it a state crime to be in the country without authorization.

The Justice Department did argue in its suit that the law ''will cause the
detention and harassment of authorized visitors, immigrants, and citizens who do
not have or carry identification documents specified by the statute, or who
otherwise will be swept into the ambit of S.B. 1070's 'attrition through
enforcement' approach.''

But people on both sides of the debate concede racial profiling is not what the
Justice Department case, the biggest gun in the legal fight, is about.

To supporters of the law, this is validation of their claims that the law, which
includes language forbidding profiling, is not discriminatory.

''It's nice to see the Obama administration finally concede there is no
allowance for racial profiling in Arizona's immigration law,'' said Kirk Adams,
the Republican speaker of the Arizona House of Representatives. ''After all the
sound and fury about discrimination, it's now clear that the administration's
entire case against SB 1070 rests on a technical claim that the law is
indirectly pre-empted by federal immigration law.''

United States Representative Trent Franks, an Arizona Republican, said Mr.
Obama's discrimination worries are ''glaringly absent from his lawsuit.''

''It is beyond ironic,''  Mr. Franks added, ''that the main claim in the lawsuit
is that Arizona is wrongly pre-empting a federal responsibility when the entire
reason the legislation was necessary in the first place was precisely because
the federal government was simply not living up to its responsibility.''

And it turns out Kris Kobach, the University of Missouri law professor who wrote
the bill for legislators here, had accurately predicted the government's
stronger case would rest over who has authority over immigration law and not
concerns about racial profiling.

Lawyers in the other five lawsuits against the law that play up the potential
for discrimination shrugged off their opponents' glee, saying the government
shrewdly chose not to ''throw the kitchen sink'' at the state, as Thomas A.
Saenz of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund put it.

They were happy the government stepped in and did so forcefully, even raising
arguments, like the potential effect on diplomatic affairs, that others had not
emphasized.

''I am overwhelmed by their case,'' said Stephen Montoya, the lawyer for a
Phoenix police officer who has sued, in part, on the basis that he would be
forced to consider people's race or ethnicity to enforce the law.

He and others said they had played up the possibility of racial profiling
because, unlike the federal government, they represent clients who might be
affected by the law and its repercussions.

Above all, they said, they will take anything that stops the law, even if it
does not turn on what all the fuss has been about.

''To me it's clear the Justice Department's goal is to stop the law from going
into effect and prevent the harassment and racial profiling from occurring,''
said Lucas Guttentag, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Family's Debate Shows Arizona Law Divides Latinos, Too

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 936 words


PHOENIX -- Arizona's immigration law, which politicians have debated in the
Legislature, lawyers have sparred over in the courtroom and advocates have
shouted about on the street, has found its way up a driveway in central Phoenix,
through the front door and right onto the Sotelo family's kitchen table.

That is where Efrain Sotelo, 49, a process server, and his wife, Shayne, 46, an
elementary school teacher, sat and argued on a recent Friday night. He drank
beer. She sipped wine. Like many residents across the state, they differed on
State Senate Bill 1070, as the immigration law is known.

''I try not to engage in arguments with my wife,'' Mr. Sotelo said, looking
across at her. ''When we talk about this, we both know what's going to happen. I
can't convince her, and she can't convince me.''

On that much, they seemed to agree. ''He's much more conservative than I am,''
she said. ''He can't be changed. I can't be changed. We both know that. But that
doesn't mean we don't try.''

That such a divisive social issue would divide some families is not surprising.
But what makes the Sotelos stand out is that they are both Latinos, he a Mexican
immigrant who was born in the northern state of Chihuahua and she a descendant
of Spanish immigrants who grew up in Colorado.

While polls show that a vast majority of Latinos nationwide side with Mrs.
Sotelo in opposing Arizona's law, that opposition is not uniform. ''All Latinos
are not opposed to this law -- that's too simplistic,'' said Cecilia Menjivar,
an Arizona State University sociologist. There are other Mr. Sotelos out there,
including an Arizona state legislator, Representative Steve B. Montenegro, a
Republican who immigrated from El Salvador and became the only Latino lawmaker
to vote in favor of the bill.

Since Gov. Jan Brewer signed the legislation in April, polls have found that
about 70 percent of Latinos nationwide oppose the law, which allows the police
to arrest people they suspected of being illegal immigrants, a provision blocked
by a federal judge at the request of the Justice Department.

Mr. Sotelo, who said he would be following Arizona's appeal of that ruling on
Monday, realizes that his views are not popular among immigrants. He was
hesitant to reply when a woman in the country illegally asked him recently what
he thought of the law.

''I said, 'I don't think you want to hear what I have to say,' '' he recalled.

He thinks his adopted state has been unfairly maligned since the law passed.
''I'm a Hispanic, and I don't have any issues walking the streets,'' he said.
''They make it seem like the police or sheriff are out there checking everyone's
papers, and that's not so.''

But his wife, who was thrilled by President Obama's challenge to the law, has a
different view of her adopted state. ''It's more of a racist state after 1070,''
she said. ''We are a magnet for neo-Nazis.''

Mr. Sotelo, who came here in 1972 after his father obtained a green card, is
unswayed by the fierce objections of the Mexican government to the legislation.
He still recalls bitterly when he was stopped at a checkpoint inside Mexico with
his two children some years ago. The official was checking his paperwork and,
Mr. Sotelo said, clearly angling for a bribe. Mr. Sotelo was so furious at the
encounter that he turned around and crossed back home to the United States.

Mr. Sotelo does not believe that the bulk of illegal immigrants are criminals,
as some advocates of the law have argued. But some percentage of them are
dealing in drugs, he said, and those lawbreakers ''make the rest of us look
bad.''

Mrs. Sotelo scoffs at that. ''It's not a perfect world, and in all groups you'll
have people who abuse the system,'' she said. ''When you're dealing with
individuals, there has to be flexibility.''

Because he serves summonses for a living, owning his own business, Mr. Sotelo
tends to be the law-and-order type. Because she has taught the children of
illegal immigrants and sees how hard-edged policies affect real people, Mrs.
Sotelo tends to be more willing to give.

''As a teacher, when the law passed, I had kids crying,'' she said. ''They felt
they had to uproot themselves from the life they had known all their lives. I
saw total pain. I couldn't believe it was 2010. It was almost as if I were
living through the civil rights era again.''

Her husband shook his head.

Back and forth they went, with Mr. Sotelo endorsing a get-tough approach to
illegal immigrants and his wife talking of the need for compassion.

''Phoenix is the No. 1 city in the country for kidnappings,'' he said at one
point, citing the large number of illegal immigrants who have been held against
their will by smugglers.

''That's false,'' she shot back.

''O.K., but there's a lot of kidnappings in Phoenix,'' he said.

''You and I are not being targeted,'' she said.

''Right now, it may not be us,'' he said.

Her: ''I've never feared being kidnapped.''

Him: ''I do.''

Her: ''You can sincerely say you have a fear of being kidnapped?''

Him: ''I do. Who knows?''

And so they continued in what was for the most part a good-natured exchange,
although with a third party there to intervene when the debate heated up. There
was no storming off, which is not always the case, they said.

Trying to convince Mr. Sotelo of the error of his ways can frustrate Mrs.
Sotelo. The same goes for him, when he tries to convince his wife how wrong she
is.

In one sense, Mrs. Sotelo has come out on top. She has won over their two
children with her arguments, her husband said, leaving him with plenty of
conservative company once he heads out the front door but isolated in the
confines of their home.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shayne Sotelo opposes Arizona's new immigration law, while her
husband, Efrain, supports it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 12, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Governors Voice Grave Concerns On Immigration

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting from
Washington, and Katie Zezima from Boston.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1378 words


BOSTON -- In a private meeting with White House officials this weekend,
Democratic governors voiced deep anxiety about the Obama administration's suit
against Arizona's new immigration law, worrying that it could cost a vulnerable
Democratic Party in the fall elections.

While the weak economy dominated the official agenda at the summer meeting here
of the National Governors Association, concern over immigration policy pervaded
the closed-door session between Democratic governors and White House officials
and simmered throughout the three-day event.

At the Democrats' meeting on Saturday, some governors bemoaned the timing of the
Justice Department lawsuit, according to two governors who spoke anonymously
because the discussion was private.

''Universally the governors are saying, 'We've got to talk about jobs,' '' Gov.
Phil Bredesen of Tennessee, a Democrat, said in an interview. ''And all of a
sudden we have immigration going on.''

He added, ''It is such a toxic subject, such an important time for Democrats.''

The administration seemed to be taking a carrot-and-stick approach on Sunday.
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, in town to give the governors a
classified national security briefing, met one-on-one with Jan Brewer, the
Republican who succeeded her as governor of Arizona and ardently supports the
immigration law.

About the same time as that meeting, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. said on
a taped Sunday talk show that the Justice Department could bring yet another
lawsuit against Arizona if there is evidence that the immigration law leads to
racial profiling.

Ms. Brewer said she and Ms. Napolitano did not discuss the current lawsuit.
Instead, in a conversation she described as cordial, they discussed Arizona's
request for more National Guard troops along the border with Mexico, as well as
other resources.

The Democrats' meeting provided a window on tensions between the White House and
states over the suit, which the Justice Department filed last week in federal
court in Phoenix. Nineteen Democratic governors are either leaving office or
seeking re-election this year, and Republicans see those seats as crucial to
swaying the 2012 presidential race.

The Arizona law -- which Ms. Brewer signed in April and which, barring an
injunction, takes effect July 29 -- makes it a crime to be an illegal immigrant
there. It also requires police officers to determine the immigration status of
people they stop for other offenses if there is a ''reasonable suspicion'' that
they might be illegal immigrants.

The lawsuit contends that controlling immigration is a federal responsibility,
but polls suggest that a majority of Americans support the Arizona law, or at
least the concept of a state having a strong role in immigration enforcement.

Republican governors at the Boston meeting were also critical of the lawsuit,
saying it infringed on states' rights and rallying around Ms. Brewer, whose
presence spurred a raucous protest around the downtown hotel where the governors
gathered.

''I'd be willing to bet a lot of money that almost every state in America next
January is going to see a bill similar to Arizona's,'' said Gov. Dave Heineman
of Nebraska, a Republican seeking re-election.

But the unease of Democratic governors, seven of whom are seeking re-election
this year, was more striking.

''I might have chosen both a different tack and a different time,'' said Gov.
Bill Ritter Jr. of Colorado, a Democrat who was facing a tough fight for
re-election and pulled out of the race earlier this year. ''This is an issue
that divides us politically, and I'm hopeful that their strategy doesn't do that
in a way that makes it more difficult for candidates to get elected,
particularly in the West.''

The White House would not directly respond to reports of complaints from some
Democratic governors.

But David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser, said on Sunday on CNN's
''State of the Union'' that the president remained committed to passing an
immigration overhaul, and that addressing the issue did not mean he was ignoring
the economy.

''That doesn't mean we can't have a good, healthy debate about the economy and
other issues,'' Mr. Axelrod said.

Mr. Obama addressed the economy last week during stops in Kansas City and Las
Vegas, and has been calling on Congress to offer additional tax relief to small
businesses.

And the heads of Mr. Obama's national debt commission -- Alan K. Simpson and
Erskine B. Bowles -- were on hand here on Sunday to press the economic issue.

The nation's total federal debt next year is expected to exceed $14 trillion,
and Mr. Simpson, a former Republican senator from Wyoming, and Mr. Bowles, a
Democrat and the White House chief of staff under President Bill Clinton,
offered a gloomy assessment if spending is not brought under control even more.

''This debt is like a cancer,'' Mr. Bowles said. ''It is truly going to destroy
the country from within.''

Still, the issue of immigration commanded as much attention as anything here
this weekend.

Ms. Brewer, who was trailed by television cameras all weekend, called the
lawsuit ''outrageous'' and said the state was receiving donations from around
the country to help fight it.

''I think Arizona will win,'' she said, ''and we will take a position for all of
America.''

Immigration was not the only topic at the Saturday meeting between Democratic
governors and two White House officials -- Patrick Gaspard, Mr. Obama's
political director, and Cecilia Munoz, director of intergovernmental affairs.
But several governors, including Christine Gregoire of Washington, said it was a
particularly heated issue.

Ms. Gregoire, who does not face an election this year, said the White House was
doing a poor job of showing the American public that it was working on the
problem of illegal immigration.

''They described for me a list of things that they are doing to try and help on
that border,'' Ms. Gregoire said of the White House officials at the closed-door
meeting. ''And I said, 'The public doesn't know that.' ''

She added, ''We've got a message void, and the only thing we're hearing is that
they're filing a lawsuit.''

Some Democrats also joined Republicans in calling for Congress to pass an
immigration policy overhaul this year.

''There are 535 members of Congress,'' said Gov. Brian Schweitzer of Montana, a
Democrat. ''Certainly somebody back there can chew gum and hold the basketball
at the same time. This is not an either-or.''

Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico praised the Justice Department's lawsuit,
saying his fellow Democrats' concerns were ''misguided.''

''Policy-wise it makes sense,'' said Mr. Richardson, who is Hispanic and who
leaves office this year on term limits, ''and Obama is popular with Hispanic
voters and this is going to be a popular move with them nationally.''

Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland -- a Democrat who voiced apprehension about the
lawsuit in the private meeting, according to the two governors who requested
anonymity -- said in an interview that he supported it.

''The president doesn't have control over some of the timing of things that
happen,'' Mr. O'Malley said. ''When those things arise, you can't be too
precious about what's in it for your own personal political timing or even your
party's timing. When matters like this arise, I think the president has to take
a principled stand.''

But Mr. Bredesen said that in Tennessee, where the governor's race will be tight
this year, Democratic candidates were already on the defensive about the federal
health care overhaul,  and the suit against Arizona further weakened them. In
Tennessee, he said, Democratic candidates are already ''disavowing'' the
immigration lawsuit.

''Maybe you do that when you're strong,'' he said of the suit, ''and not when
there's an election looming out there.''

Mr. Ritter of Colorado said he wished the Justice Department had waited to sue
Arizona until after the law went into effect, to give the public a chance to see
how difficult it would be to enforce.

''It's just an easier case to make,'' he said. ''I just think that law
enforcement officers are going to have a terribly difficult time applying this
law in a constitutional way.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the National Governors Association meeting, from left, Phil
Bredesen, Deval Patrick, Joe Manchin III and Bob McDonnell.
 Janet Napolitano, left, secretary of homeland security, met privately in Boston
on Sunday with Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL
DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 4, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Hunt for American Decency in the Arizona Quicksand

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 696 words


The federal judge who struck down most of Arizona's new immigration law last
week wasn't trying to strike a blow for immigrants' rights, about which her
ruling said little. She wasn't dictating what immigration laws should look like
or how strict they should be. She was making a much more fundamental argument,
one that has regularly emerged in America's long and often ugly history in
dealing with noncitizens and other vulnerable minorities.

The message was that Arizona cannot have its own immigration or foreign policy.
It cannot tell the federal government how to enforce its laws. It is not up to
any state to seize the power to upend federal priorities, particularly to wield
a blunt enforcement tool that will do harm to Hispanics, citizens or not, who
live in certain neighborhoods, wear certain clothes, drive certain vehicles and
speak Spanish or accented English.

One excuse offered up for Arizona's mindless new law was that it is just trying
to do a job the federal government refused to do. But the law, SB1070, is far
more pernicious than that. It begins with a grandiose statement of its purpose:
''to make attrition through enforcement the public policy of all state and local
government agencies in Arizona.'' ''Attrition through enforcement'' is a theory
cooked up in right-wing think tanks -- that mass deportation is unnecessary,
because with enough hostile laws and harsh enforcement, illegal immigrants will
all decide to go home.

That's a product of delusion and cruelty. But it's also an article of faith
among the Arizonans who have yanked the white-hot center of the national
immigration debate to Phoenix, like the law's author, State Senator Russell
Pearce; Gov. Jan Brewer, who has surfed the law to high poll ratings and a
meeting with President Obama; and Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who marches immigrant
prisoners through the streets of Phoenix and vows to keep raiding Hispanic
neighborhoods, law or no law.

District Judge Susan Bolton said it wasn't up to these people to determine
America's immigration policy.

Professor Hiroshi Motomura of U.C.L.A. Law School, who has written often about
America's immigration history, said the Obama administration had a compelling
justification for bringing the case, and Judge Bolton was exactly right to rule
in the administration's favor.

''It has been one of the essential roles of the federal government in U.S.
history since the Civil War to make sure that states don't act in ways that
exclude or marginalize certain individuals -- often by race and ethnicity,'' he
said. ''By acting in this case, the Justice Department is asserting its
historical role that states and localities aren't given the power that might
enable them to harm individuals and communities in those ways. By bringing this
lawsuit, the federal government has done something essential for national
cohesion.''

Right now, in Phoenix anyway, things seem to be coming apart, with marches and
peaceful protests coming face to face with simmering rage.

Last Friday, Sheriff Arpaio's deputies arrested Salvador Reza, a leader of
immigrant-rights protests, for reasons that a prosecutor later could not
explain. Video shows Mr. Reza standing quietly in a parking lot, a good distance
from a protest across the street, when a cordon of armed officers surrounds,
handcuffs and hauls him off. It was a scene from another decade or country.

Thomas Saenz, the president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, links Arizona's struggle to the civil rights era. He calls the
state's politicians the new nullifiers, descendants of the southern
segregationists who fought for Jim Crow with the debased theory that states had
the power to invalidate federal law. It took federal action and protesters
stirring the nation's conscience to make the point: You cannot treat people this
way.

Mr. Saenz notes the strangeness of Arizona's politicians denouncing immigrants'
lawlessness while baring their own contempt for the Constitution. Is he
exaggerating? Here's Ms. Brewer on Fox News: ''It's unfortunate that it takes a
little city or a little state like Arizona to fight the United States federal
government, but that's what we're up to.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Challenge Is Upheld

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 79 words


A Federal District Court judge ruled Friday that one of the main lawsuits
seeking to overturn Arizona's new immigration law could go forward, despite
efforts by Gov. Jan Brewer and several sheriffs to have the suit thrown out. But
the judge, Susan R. Bolton, dismissed some portions of the suit, filed by the
National Immigration Law Center and other advocacy groups, including their claim
that the law would restrict immigrants' rights to travel and to use a foreign
language.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Massachusetts Move on Immigration Law

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 382 words


BOSTON -- The Massachusetts Senate on Thursday approved a series of measures to
tighten immigration enforcement, reflecting election-year unease over the issue
in a Democratic-controlled Legislature that has spurned such crackdowns in the
past.

The measures, which passed 28 to 10 in an amendment to a budget bill, would
require state contractors to confirm that their workers were here legally and
prohibit the contractors from doing business with the state if they were found
to employ illegal immigrants.

The changes would also codify into law an existing state policy that bars
illegal immigrants from qualifying for resident-tuition rates at state colleges.
And they would require public housing agencies to give legal residents priority
for subsidized housing.

In addition, the state attorney general's office would be required to set up a
hot line for people to anonymously report businesses that hire illegal
immigrants, and to investigate any such reports.

''It's a reaction to a political climate that has been successfully manipulated
by extremist elements,'' said Frank Soults, a spokesman for the Massachusetts
Immigrant and Refugee Advocacy Coalition. ''Lawmakers who always supported
immigrants before have suddenly turned and voted for the most anti-immigrant
bill we've seen in Massachusetts in years.''

But Senator Steven A. Baddour, a Democrat who supported the legislation, said it
was crucial.

''We have an illegal immigration problem that needs to be addressed here in the
Commonwealth,'' Mr. Baddour said, ''and this is a good bipartisan solution.''

The vote came several weeks after the State House, also controlled by Democrats,
narrowly rejected a measure that would have barred illegal immigrants here from
receiving state and federal benefits. It is not yet clear how much support the
Senate measures will muster in the House.

A Suffolk University/7 News poll released Wednesday found that 84 percent of
voters want the state to require proof of citizenship before awarding benefits
like public assistance. The poll of 500 registered voters, which had a margin of
sampling error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage points, also found that 53
percent supported Arizona's new immigration law.

But only 40 percent said that Massachusetts should pass a similar law.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Musicians Differ in Responses to Arizona's New Immigration Law

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 935 words


For the singer Larry Hernandez, the 2010 Billboard Latin Music Awards should
have been a moment of pure celebration. But when it came time for Mr. Hernandez
to accept his award as new artist of the year, he got drawn into politics,
prefacing his remarks with a condemnation of the tough new immigration law that
his home state of Arizona had just adopted.

''It is deplorable that they are discriminating against us just for the simple
fact of looking Latino,'' he said from the stage. ''It's not fair. We have to
say no to that law.''

Mr. Hernandez's name, however, is not on the list of prominent pop music
performers who have declared that they will no longer perform in Arizona, one of
the most dynamic markets for Latin music and culture. The boycott effort, called
Sound Strike and led by the singer Zack de la Rocha of the rap metal band Rage
Against the Machine, did get pledges from some big names, including the rapper
Kanye West, indie rockers Sonic Youth and the trip hop duo Massive Attack. But
it was light on mainstream ''big tent'' performers who can fill stadiums,  and
included no country music performers.

Still, the new law has galvanized Latino artists and performers not just in
Arizona, but across the country and the hemisphere.

''Mexican-Americans are not going to take this lying down,'' the singer Linda
Ronstadt, an Arizonan of Mexican descent, said at a news conference in Phoenix
last month. The Colombian singing star Shakira flew to the state last month to
denounce the law as ''a violation of human and civil rights'' and met with Mayor
Phil Gordon of Phoenix and other opponents of the legislation; but  she has not
signed the Sound Strike pledge.

In a telephone interview from Miami, the Colombian folk-rock singer Juanes, who
has joined  the boycott, said: ''I've performed in Phoenix many times, and it's
sad that I'm not going to be able to play there. But from the moment I heard
that this bill had become a reality, I felt offended and also that I had to
stand in peaceful solidarity with our immigrant brothers who are being made the
victims in this.''

Boycott organizers said that additional activities were planned, including a
fund-raising concert and a song or video modeled after the Sun City
anti-apartheid campaign. Supporters of the boycott indicated that they will also
step up their campaign to get performers to take the pledge not to play in
Arizona.

''We love Shakira and love her music and thank her for standing with us during
the bill's consideration,'' said Alfredo Gutierrez, chairman of the economic
sanctions committee of Somos America, a coalition of human rights and religious
groups that is leading opposition to the law. ''But ultimately we want her to
join the others and not come here commercially.''

Even before the Sound Strike boycott was announced, several acts specializing in
Mexican regional music had canceled scheduled appearances in Arizona or decided
to skip the state during tours planned for the summer. Among them are the
popular singer-songwriter  Jenni Rivera, from California, who is scheduled to
participate in a protest march on Saturday, and Espinoza Paz and Conjunto
Primavera.

It is not clear, however, to what extent commercial considerations may also have
figured in those decisions. Mexican regional music performers, managers and
booking agents said business was suffering even before Gov. Jan Brewer signed
the law. They ascribed the decline to what they called a longstanding practice
by Arizona law enforcement authorities, especially Sheriff Joe Arpaio of
Maricopa County, of stopping fans coming out of arenas, clubs, rodeos, fairs and
cantinas that they think will attract illegal immigrants.

Hispanic leaders and human rights groups contend that the authorities do not
dispatch similar ''crime suppression sweeps'' to rock and country music
concerts. Michael Nowakowski, who is both a vice mayor of Phoenix and general
manager of Radio Campesina, a Spanish-language radio station, said that even
Latinos who are American citizens or green card holders are afraid to attend
music or theatrical events

Mr. Gutierrez said, ''It's a purely racial, Hispanic thing, ethnic profiling at
its worst.''

Mr. Arpaio's office did not respond to requests for comment.

During the 1990s, Arizona's Hispanic population grew by 88 percent; figures from
the 2010 census are not yet available, but Hispanic residents are now estimated
to account for nearly one-third of Arizona's population of more than six
million.

As a result, Arizona became a musical laboratory that generated popular acts
such as El Tigrillo Palma, Los Alegres de la Sierra and Los Pikadientes de
Caborca.

But Mr. Nowakowski, whose father is Polish-American and whose mother is Mexican,
said that a chilling effect was already being felt. He noted that the number of
Cinco de Mayo celebrations in his station's listening area was ''down
substantially'' this year and that it was hard to find bands willing to play the
events because of what he called ''the fear factor.''

Nevertheless he expressed doubts about the boycott strategy. ''I have mixed
feelings because it's so broad,'' he said.

''Musicians can really have an impact if they have concerts here and talk about
voter registration, like the Rock the Vote campaign on MTV, or offer half off
the ticket price if you register to vote,'' he continued. ''It's a platform you
can speak from and educate people who are maybe on the edge and confused. The
artists need to touch the soul and hearts of people and allow them to be proud
of who they are and tell that American story.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Arizona Boycott Grows

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 93 words


Los Angeles County is joining the boycott over Arizona's immigration law. The
Board of Supervisors voted 3 to 2 on Tuesday to ban new contracts with
Arizona-based companies and review existing ones that could be canceled. The
county has more than $26 million in contracts with Arizona companies this year.
The cities of Los Angeles, Oakland and San Francisco have passed similar
measures. The Arizona law requires the police enforcing another law to question
people about their immigration status if there is reason to suspect they are in
the country illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 16, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Law Is the Focus Of a Debate In U.S. Court

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 580 words


PHOENIX -- Partisans in the debate over Arizona's stringent immigration law
squared off for the first time in federal court Thursday, providing an early
glimpse into the legal arguments that will be used in the coming battle over the
new law.

Judge Susan Bolton of Federal District Court, in a hearing on a challenge to the
law brought by a Phoenix police officer, did not issue a ruling but reacted to
the arguments of both sides with skepticism and  pointed questions. She has
said she could not promise to rule before July 29, when the law takes effect,
and at one point Thursday archly noted that the Justice Department would be in
her courtroom next week making some of the same arguments against the law.

But the hearing did suggest possible difficulties for both sides in court as
they debated the law, which requires the police to check the immigration status
of people they stop or arrest if they suspect they are in the country illegally.

''I thought the state wanted to assist the federal government in doing a task
they are not entirely successfully doing,'' Judge Bolton told Stephen Montoya, a
lawyer for a Phoenix police officer who challenged the law as unconstitutional
and likely to force him to racially profile.

''The federal government does not want that assistance,'' Mr. Montoya countered,
noting the Justice Department lawsuit rests largely on the ground that the state
is intruding on federal authority. ''And they are unequivocal in not wanting
that assistance. The best response to that argument after the federal government
sued is to laugh.''

Mr. Montoya said that the federal government already has special programs in
which state and local governments can participate in immigration enforcement and
that the Arizona law, by imposing state sanctions, levies punishments on
immigrants they would not face in other states.

''The true evil'' of the law, he said, ''is that it is divisive. We can't have
50 immigration laws.''

Questioning John Bouma, a lawyer for Gov. Jan Brewer, Judge Bolton asked if the
state law was ''an attempt to get around the fact that Arizona cannot have an
alien registration law?''

Mr. Bouma said Congress intended states to play a role and ''just leaving it in
the status quo leaves the state of Arizona in economic harm, in irreparable
harm, every day'' from associated costs. ''This particular executive branch does
not want assistance,'' he said. ''They want to do it their own way.''

The lawyers and judge also sparred over whether the officer, David Salgado, and
a social service organization, Chicanos por la Causa, could  bring a case before
the law takes effect.

Lawyers for the state said previous  rulings would not allow it, but Mr. Montoya
argued Mr. Salgado was under ''genuine threat'' of being fired if he did not
enforce the law or could be sued by people who claim their race or ethnicity
motivated his check.

''Is there a genuine threat?'' she asked in a tone tinged with disbelief.

''Absolutely,'' Mr. Montoya replied, going on to explain further Mr. Salgado's
perceived dilemma.

The Arizona Supreme Court has allowed race to be considered  when making an
immigration stop, but the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
has ruled in a different case that race or ethnicity cannot be considered, Mr.
Montoya said.

''Who is Officer Salgado going to obey, the Arizona Supreme Court, which says it
can be a factor, or the Ninth Circuit, which says race can't be used?'' he
asked.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Garden Variety Javelinas

BYLINE: By ALAN DEAN FOSTER.

Alan Dean Foster is the author of the forthcoming novel ''The Human Blend.''

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 788 words


Prescott, Ariz.

''THE problem,'' Luis told me, ''is all these illegals. They come here expecting
to find paradise, and it isn't. You have to work hard for everything. But at
least there is work.'' He shook his head. He is shorter than me by five inches,
but I would trade an inch or so of height for his full head of black hair.
Vanity knows no borders.

Luis emigrated from southern Mexico 16 years ago. He now runs a car maintenance
business where I bring my old Aurora every few months. To say that he and many
immigrants like him are strongly in favor of Arizona's new immigration law --
which went into effect at the end of last month without its most controversial
aspects, like immigration status checks during police stops -- is like saying
one or two New Yorkers dislike the Red Sox.

The part of the law not blocked by a federal judge has been in force for over a
week now, though no one I know has seen any signs of it in action. Still, there
have been reports of arrests and a lot of angry calls to both the federal
courthouse and Gov. Jan Brewer's office. Most people in the country have heard
about that kind of thing on the news. What they don't seem to know much about is
how regular Arizonans feel about the law.

If you think angry white guys who sleep with M16's and whose six-packs are in
their pickups as opposed to on their torsos are the ones angriest at illegal
immigration in Arizona, then you haven't talked to the legal immigrants here.
Did everything the hard way, they say. Earned the right to be called an
American.

Many of them resent those who crossed the border illegally, but they also
sympathize. You can't be human and not feel for someone who only wants to make a
little money to send back home.

Take my friend who works at the local Indian casino (most every county in
Arizona has one). She left her family back in Chiapas because her husband
couldn't find work, and braved rapists and thieves and the Border Patrol so she
could come here to do manual labor six days a week. While she works in the
casino's neon bowels, the plump and pale-skinned drop thousands of dollars into
slot machines to alleviate the boredom of slow afternoons. Sure, she's illegal.
She's also a saint.

Would that the human ramifications of the state's immigration law were as simple
and straightforward to parse as its bureaucratic language.

If, as is expected, the law moves up to the Supreme Court in the fall, the
controversy will become even more difficult to avoid. And yet most Arizonans --
both Anglo and Hispanic -- will keep on moseying through their lives, much as
their fellow Americans do. It's not about immigration all the time here, any
more than it is in the rest of the United States.

That noted, there are differences between there and here. Life is a little
wilder in Arizona. To the best of my knowledge, no one wakes up in Manhattan
wondering if a protected wolf has killed his newborn calves. Perambulating
Bostonians are unlikely to be on the lookout for cactus rustlers (the theft of
plants is a huge problem in our preserves and parks). If any good folks in St.
Louis encounter a roadrunner, it'll be on TV. You can't mine much peridot in
Peoria, or copper in Calistoga, or gold in Grand Rapids.

My friends Brock and Glenna have a vegetable garden. In Arizona, that means
battling with javelinas, which love their zucchini. Javelinas may look like
pigs, but they weigh over 70 pounds and have razor-sharp tusks; a pack of them
can crush a mountain lion like a trucker would a beer can. Keep that in mind the
next time you grumble about having to shoo the neighborhood kids away from your
tomatoes.

So yes, Arizona is different. Most of all, the border with Mexico makes us
different from those states bordering looks-just-like-us Canada, or silent wide
oceans or simply other states. We're as American as our relatives in Maine and
Minnesota and we hew to the same values. But some things are a bit more
complicated here.

Mexicans called this place home before it was ceded to the United States, and
Native Americans have lived here for 10,000 years. Arizona, probably more than
anywhere else in the country, belongs to these three cultures -- and that says
more about the state than any debate over immigration law could.

The truth is, nobody in Arizona likes the law. Nobody really wants it. All
anyone here wants is for the federal government to enforce the existing rules
governing our borders. Had it done so, no one would have bothered with the law.

It's August, and the temperature in the deserts runs 115/80. But Arizonans are
used to it. Despite what the rest of the country seems to think, those numbers
are also a pretty good approximation of an average resident's blood pressure.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: August 10, 2010



CORRECTION: An Op-Ed article on Sunday about Arizona and immigration mistakenly
suggested that javelinas are pigs. They are peccaries.

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Justice Department Voices Concern About Immigration Law

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 137 words


Justice Department officials told the Arizona attorney general and aides to the
governor on Friday that the federal government had serious reservations about
the state's new immigration law. The attorney general, Terry Goddard, said he
urged them not to sue. ''I told them we need solutions from Washington, not more
lawsuits,'' said Mr. Goddard, a Democrat. The Justice Department reached out to
Mr. Goddard and aides to Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, about the Obama
administration's concerns about the law, which takes effect July 29. Provisions
of the sweeping law include a requirement that police officers enforcing any
other law question people about their immigration status if there is
''reasonable suspicion'' that they are in the country illegally. It also makes
it a state crime to be in the country illegally.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 30, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Two Sides Intersect In Immigration Debate

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Ana Facio Contreras contributed from Phoenix.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1015 words


PHOENIX -- Two sides of the immigration debate converged here Saturday: a throng
of several thousand marching for five miles opposed to Arizona's new immigration
law, and several thousand nearly filling a nearby stadium in the evening in
support of it.

Organizers said the timing was coincidental, with both sides taking advantage of
a holiday weekend to bring out the masses. But the gatherings encapsulated in a
single day the passions surrounding the national immigration debate, recharged
by the new law, which will expand the state's role in immigration enforcement.

Both demonstrations made a point of waving a large number of American flags and
issuing pleas for a national overhaul of immigration law, but they offered a
jarring study in how polarized the debate has become here.

The demonstrators against the law were mostly Latino, with young people and
families making up a large share. They played drums, whistled and chanted and
gave speeches in Spanish and English denouncing the perceived racism behind the
law. Many carried posters or wore T-shirts with the message: ''Do I look
illegal?''

At the rally in favor of the law, which began with the pledge of allegiance and
the national anthem, any mention of Mexico or supporters of the law brought
lusty boos -- a video clip of President Felipe Calderon of Mexico especially
fired up the crowd, which was mostly white and middle-aged or older. Placards
like ''Illegals out of the U.S.A.'' were typical, though speaker after speaker
ridiculed the idea that the crowd was racist.

Far more attended the earlier rally opposed to the law, which included a
five-mile march to the Capitol in withering heat. It was one of the largest
since Gov. Jan Brewer signed the law April 23.

Some were citizens, like Armando Diaz, 33, a mechanic born and raised here who
believes the law has helped spread anti-Latino fervor in the state.

''This is not what Arizona is about, hate,'' Mr. Diaz said as he neared the
capitol, where people fled for what little shade they could find. ''But that is
what this law is about.''

The later rally, at sundown, was organized by Tea Party groups from St. Louis
and Dallas who said they decided to take the lead and support the state against
a wave of boycotts protesting the law, some by cities like San Francisco and
Seattle.

''We are doing this to crush any boycott against the free market,'' said Tina
Loudon, a Tea Party member from St. Louis who helped organize the rally.
''Arizona has a sovereign right to enforce immigration laws on the books.''

The law -- barring any successful legal challenges -- will take effect July 29.
It would allow the police to check the immigration status of people they suspect
are illegal immigrants when they have been stopped for another reason. It also
makes it a state crime, not just a federal one, to not carry immigration papers.

Advocates see it as a tool for law enforcement to weed out illegal immigrants,
while five lawsuits filed against it call it an infringement on federal
authority and suggest that Latino citizens and legal residents will be swept up
for questioning.

On another front, the governor and attorney general are disputing who will
defend the state against the legal challenges and possible litigation by the
United States Justice Department.

Ms. Brewer, a Republican, said Friday she had removed the state's attorney
general, a Democrat and vocal opponent of the law, from defending it, accusing
him of colluding with the Justice Department as it nears a decision on whether
to challenge the law in court.

But the matter remained in dispute on Saturday, as the attorney general, Terry
Goddard, a Democrat and potential challenger in her re-election bid, said in an
e-mail message that he was ''definitely defending the state'' in legal
challenges to the law.

Ms. Brewer said she took action after Mr. Goddard met Friday with Justice
Department lawyers, who then met with her legal advisers.

Justice Department officials said they routinely meet with a state's attorney
general and governor when considering legal action against their state.

''We continue to have concerns that the law drives a wedge between law
enforcement and the communities they serve, and are examining it to see what
options are available to the federal government,'' said Tracy Schmaler, a
department spokeswoman.

The United States attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., has said he worries that
the law may intrude on federal authority and lead to racial profiling.

Protest rallies were also held Saturday at the state capitols in Texas and
Oregon, as well as in San Francisco, according to The Associated Press.

At the Arizona demonstrations, opinions could not be further apart.

Mireya Chavez Cerna, 43, an illegal immigrant who works as a maid, marched with
her 9-year-old son, who was born in the United States and wore a shirt reading
''Made in America.''

She denounced the climate of fear in the state and said immigrants like her
could not abide the wait of a decade or more for a legal visa while their
families grow hungry.

''Do you think we would risk losing our lives crossing the border if we didn't
have a need to come here for a better life?'' she said. Supporters of the law
''don't know,'' she added. ''They don't understand. They don't live in Mexico.
They don't know how it is.''

But Ann Hyde, a radiological technologist from Chandler, said she grew
frustrated at supporters being tarred as prejudiced or worse.

''We are not racists,'' she said. ''This law is about respecting the laws of the
nation and the economic impact of illegal immigration, which is enormous. My
state is broke and they cost us with spending on schools, hospitals and other
services.''

Though violent crime is declining in Arizona, as in most other states, and
illegal immigration is down at the border, speakers played up crimes that
illegal immigrants have been charged with over the years, including shooting of
police officers.

''One is too many,'' said Mark Spencer, the chairman of a union representing
rank-and-file police officers in Phoenix.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thousands of people marched to protest the immigration law in
Phoenix on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Constitution Trumps Arizona

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 653 words


The Obama administration has not always been completely clear about its
immigration agenda, but it was forthright Tuesday when it challenged the
pernicious Arizona law that allows the police to question the immigration status
of people they detain for local violations. Only the federal government can set
or enforce immigration policy, the government said in its lawsuit against the
state, and ''Arizona has crossed this constitutional line.''

There is nothing terribly complicated about this principle, which is based on
several aspects of the Constitution, acts of Congress, and Supreme Court
decisions over the years. A patchwork of state and local immigration policies
would cause havoc.

As the Justice Department points out in its complaint, the Arizona law will
divert resources from the government's pursuit of dangerous aliens, including
terrorists, spies and violent criminals. It will harass authorized immigrants,
visitors and citizens who might not be carrying their papers when stopped by the
police. It will ignore the country's cherished protections of asylum and will
interfere with national foreign policy interests. (Already several Mexican
governors are refusing to meet with their American counterparts in Arizona, a
sign of the diplomatic disarray produced by the law.)

The courts have repeatedly made these fundamental ideas clear. A federal court
in 1997 struck down Proposition 187 in California, which would have denied
social benefits to illegal immigrants and turned state employees into
enforcement agents because it was pre-empted by federal authority. (Appeals in
the case were dropped.) The Supreme Court has said federal authority can
pre-empt state law when the federal interest is dominant and where there already
exists a system of federal regulations. The government has done a poor job
enforcing its immigration rules, to say the least, but they do exist, and
clearly fall under what the Constitution calls ''the supreme law of the land.''

Though private lawsuits have done so, the government's suit does not allege any
discrimination or civil rights violations in the law, in part because that case
is difficult to make until the law goes into effect on July 29.

The current Supreme Court, fortunately, has not been as active in recognizing
state power as was the Rehnquist court, but it is not always easy to predict its
direction on a volatile issue like this one. Should the case reach the court,
those justices with a constructionist bent might take note of Justice Hugo
Black's words from 1941, quoted by the Justice Department on Tuesday in support
of its lawsuit: ''The supremacy of the national power in the general field of
foreign affairs, including power over immigration, naturalization and
deportation, is made clear by the Constitution, was pointed out by authors of
The Federalist in 1787, and has since been given continuous recognition by this
Court.''

The court has already taken a related Arizona case for its next term. It
challenges a 2007 law penalizing employers who knowingly hire illegal
immigrants. The administration has urged the court to strike down that law for
many of the same reasons it cited on Tuesday, and we hope the court uses that
case to undermine the notion that states can set their own immigration policy.

In the meantime, there are steps President Obama can take. He can deny Arizona
access to federal databases of immigration status and refuse to allow the
Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency to cooperate with state officials in
handling people detained under the law. The government should end the misguided
program allowing local deputies to enforce immigration law after taking an
educational course.

Most important, the president can follow through on his recent promise to end
the chaos of the immigration system with a comprehensive reform bill. Stamping
out unjust laws like Arizona's is a good place to start.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Ruling in One State, A Warning for Others

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 751 words


A federal judge in Arizona on Wednesday broadly vindicated the Obama
administration's high-stakes move to challenge that state's tough immigration
law and to assert the primary authority of the federal government over state
lawmakers in immigration matters.

The ruling by Judge Susan R. Bolton, in a lawsuit against Arizona brought on
July 6 by the Justice Department, blocked central provisions of the law from
taking effect while she finishes hearing the case.

But in taking the forceful step of holding up a statute even before it was put
into practice, Judge Bolton previewed her opinions on the case, indicating that
the federal government was likely to win in the end on the main points.

The decision by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. to throw the federal
government's weight against Arizona, on an issue that has aroused passions among
state residents, has irritated many state governors, and nine states filed
papers supporting Arizona in the court case.

But Judge Bolton found that the law was on the side of the Justice Department in
its argument that many provisions of the Arizona statute would interfere with
federal law and policy.

Gov. Jan Brewer said the state would appeal the decision.

Although Judge Bolton's ruling is not final, it seems likely to halt, at least
temporarily, an expanding movement by states to combat illegal immigration by
making it a state crime to be an immigrant without legal documents and by
imposing new requirements on state and local police officers to enforce
immigration law.

''This is a warning to any other jurisdiction'' considering a similar law, said
Thomas A. Saenz, president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund , which brought a separate suit against the law that is also before Judge
Bolton.

The Arizona law stood out from hundreds of statutes adopted by states in recent
years to discourage illegal immigrants. The statute makes it a state crime for
immigrants to fail to carry documents proving their legal status, and it
requires state police officers to determine the immigration status of anyone
they detain for another reason, if there is a ''reasonable suspicion'' the
person is an illegal immigrant.

The mere fact of being present without legal immigration status is a civil
violation under federal law, but not a crime.

Arizona's lawyers contended that the statute was written to complement federal
laws. Judge Bolton rejected that argument, finding that four of its major
provisions interfered or directly conflicted with federal laws.

The Arizona police, she wrote, would have to question every person they detained
about immigration status, generating a flood of requests to the federal
immigration authorities for confirmations. The number of requests ''is likely to
impermissibly burden federal resources and redirect federal agencies away from
priorities they have established,'' she wrote.

While opponents of the Arizona law had said it would lead to racial profiling,
the Justice Department did not dwell on those issues in its court filings. But
Judge Bolton brought them forward, finding significant risks for legal
immigrants and perhaps American citizens. There is a ''substantial likelihood
that officers will wrongfully arrest legal resident aliens,'' she wrote, warning
that foreign tourists could also be wrongly detained.

The law, she found, would increase ''the intrusion of police presence into the
lives of legally present aliens (and even United States citizens), who will
necessarily be swept up'' by it. Judge Bolton was appointed by President Bill
Clinton in 2000.

Hannah August, a spokeswoman for the Justice Department, said, ''While we
understand the frustration of Arizonans with the broken immigration system, a
patchwork of state and local policies would seriously disrupt federal
immigration enforcement.''

Some critics said Judge Bolton had decided too quickly. Peter Schuck, a
professor of immigration law at Yale, said Judge Bolton should have allowed the
law to go into effect, which it was scheduled to do on Thursday, before issuing
an order that curbed the power of a state legislature.

''She rushed to judgment in a way I can only assume reflects a lot of pressure
from the federal government to get this case resolved quickly,'' he said.

Now Judge Bolton's ruling has shifted the political pressure back onto President
Obama to show that he can effectively enforce the border, and to move forward
with an overhaul of the immigration laws, so that states will not seek to step
in as Arizona did.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Emotions Flare After Immigration Law Is Blocked

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD; Randal C. Archibold reported from Phoenix. Julia
Preston contributed reporting from New York, and Ana Facio Contreras in Phoenix.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 920 words


PHOENIX -- As the Arizona governor on Thursday formally appealed a federal
judge's ruling that prevented the most contested parts of the state's
immigration law from taking effect, a burst of protest and recrimination made
clear the ruling had hardly soothed emotions in the state.

The new law technically went into effect at 12:01 a.m. Thursday, but major
provisions of it, including one giving police officers a larger role in
enforcing immigration violations, were suspended Wednesday by the court order.

Judge Susan R. Bolton of Federal District Court, ruling in a lawsuit brought by
the Obama administration, said the provisions should be halted until there could
be a trial on whether they would interfere with federal authority on immigration
and subject legal residents to unwarranted scrutiny.

The parts of the law that were suspended called for police officers to check a
person's immigration status, when they were suspicious of it, while enforcing
other laws and required immigrants to prove that they were authorized to be in
the country.

The United States Marshals Service here said Judge Bolton received death threats
on Thursday, as anger flamed unabated on both sides of the controversy and
protesters took to the streets.

One prominent opponent of illegal immigration, Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa
County, who patrols metropolitan Phoenix and administers the jails, said he was
continuing with his duties.

''It's business as normal,'' Sheriff Arpaio said as he announced the beginning
of another of his controversial crime sweeps -- which inevitably lead to the
arrests of illegal immigrants on state smuggling charges and are unaffected by
the court order.

About the same time Sheriff Arpaio made the remark, his deputies and the police
a few miles away were busy arresting some 30 people who blocked downtown streets
and one of his jails or were accused of refusing to follow police orders during
a march by hundreds of people against the law.

''I'm here because the injunction is temporary and it can be overturned,'' said
Kirk Snow, 43, one of the protesters.

A rally is planned for Saturday by supporters of the law, including State
Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican who sponsored it and who predicted that the
injunction would be lifted.

Mayor Phil Gordon, a Democrat who opposed the new law, took it all in with a
measure of resignation.

''They are trying to get on TV, both extremes,'' he said. ''Nothing is going to
change until we revise the immigration system.''

But Congressional efforts to provide some legal status to the estimated 12
million illegal immigrants in the country and perhaps put in place a program to
allow more immigrants in to work, appear stalled.

Overall crime is declining in the state, and the Obama administration,
responding to calls from Republicans and members of his own party, is sending
reinforcements to the border, including about 1,200 National Guard troops, the
first of whom are expected to arrive in the coming weeks.

And several police agencies in Arizona already had agreements with the federal
government, and training, to help enforce immigration law under certain
conditions.

But Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican seeking election to a full term, has said the
problems and costs associated with illegal immigration remain dire, and she
pressed the point in asking the appeals court for a review of Judge Bolton's
ruling.

Her lawyers, asking the court to make the case a priority, said the law sought
to ''address the irreparable harm Arizona is suffering as a result of unchecked
unlawful immigration.''

The law, they said, is ''critical to address serious criminal, environmental
problems Arizona has been suffering as a consequence of illegal immigration and
the lack of effective enforcement activity by the federal government.''

Under the schedule proposed by the lawyers for the state, the court would hear
oral arguments in September; a Justice Department spokeswoman declined to
comment and the federal government did not file an immediate response in court.

There was still some question about what effect the remaining sections of the
law that Judge Bolton did not block might have.

For now, at least, the police will not be required to check the immigration
status of people they suspect are illegal immigrants whom they stop or arrest
for other offenses. Nor will immigrants without proper papers face state
misdemeanor charges.

Those provisions of the law, said one advocate for immigrants, the Rev. Glenn B.
Jenks, an Episcopal priest in Tempe who was formerly a lawyer, were the
''teeth'' that ''are driving people out of the state,'' as the law's proponents
intended.

But some church and labor leaders said they were concerned about several
provisions Judge Bolton did not suspend.

Although the judge blocked a broad section of the law that would have made it a
crime for an illegal immigrant to solicit work in Arizona, it is now a crime to
stop a car in the street to pick up a day laborer.

Also, police officers were given new powers to impound vehicles used to
transport illegal immigrants. While that provision appeared to be aimed at
migrant smugglers, some advocates worried that the police would apply it to
church groups and others transporting immigrants in vans.

The ruling, said the Rev. Trina Zelle, a Presbyterian minister in Arizona who is
executive director of the Arizona Interfaith Alliance for Worker Justice, a
labor advocacy group, ''is a partial and brief respite, and until the law is
completely struck down it will be subject to abuse.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters in Phoenix took part in an early morning march,
hours after a new immigration law went into effect Thursday. (A10)
A demonstrator was taken into custody by officers at a march in Phoenix. After a
federal ruling, people on both sides protested.
 A protester shouted at law officers during a march in Phoenix. A judge's ruling
has blocked much of the new law. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Latino Turnout Likely to Lag, New Poll Finds

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY; Damien Cave contributed reporting from Miami, James C.
McKinley Jr. from Houston and Julia Preston from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words



PHOENIX -- Arizona's immigration law has prompted denunciations, demonstrations,
boycotts and a federal lawsuit. But it may not bring the protest vote that many
Democrats had hoped would stem a Republican onslaught in races across the
country.

That is because although many voters are disillusioned with the political
process, Latino voters are particularly dejected, and many may sit these
elections out, according to voters, Latino organizations, political consultants
and candidates.

A poll released Tuesday found that even though Latinos strongly back Democrats
over Republicans, 65 percent to 22 percent, in the Congressional elections just
four weeks away, only 51 percent of Latino registered voters said they would
absolutely go to the polls, compared with 70 percent of all registered voters.

The other side in the immigration debate is suffering no such lack of
enthusiasm. One measure of its high spirits is the dance card of Sheriff Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County, which includes Phoenix. Mr. Arpaio conducts raids in
Latino neighborhoods that have led critics to label him a racist and the Justice
Department to start a racial-profiling investigation. Despised by some, he is
also in demand.

As conservatives across the country seek to burnish their tough-on-immigration
credentials, Mr. Arpaio's endorsement is much sought after. ''Every day I get
calls from candidates,'' the sheriff said recently, acknowledging that he draws
protesters, too.

''Tomorrow, I'm going up to Colorado to help out Tancredo; I helped that gal in
Nevada, Angle,'' Mr. Arpaio said, referring to former Representative Tom
Tancredo, who is running for governor in Colorado as an independent, and Sharron
Angle, the Republican Senate nominee in Nevada. ''I'm a poster boy on this
issue.''

The Arizona law seems to be rewriting not just the rules on immigration, but
also the rules on how it is talked about on the campaign trail.

Even in New Mexico, a state with a large Hispanic population and traditional
tolerance for illegal immigration, the issue is seen as a vote-getter for
Republicans. Susana Martinez, a prosecutor and the Republican nominee for
governor, would be the first Hispanic woman to run a state if elected. She is
ahead in the polls, partly on the strength of television advertisements that
show her standing at the border talking about how she has convicted law-breakers
who have entered the country illegally from Mexico.

Both Ms. Martinez and her Democratic opponent, Lt. Gov. Diane Denish, support
ending the policy of departing Gov. Bill Richardson that allows illegal
immigrants to get driver's licenses; Ms. Martinez would also take away licenses
from those who already have them.

''This has been an issue that we don't usually talk about,'' Lonna Rae Atkeson,
a political science professor at the University of New Mexico, said of
immigration. ''Something's different this year.''

Political analysts and candidates say the anti-establishment sentiment roiling
the electorate, as well as widespread frustration over the country's porous
borders, seems to be helping candidates who favor tougher immigration rules.

''In every single race I'm looking at, candidates are being asked, 'Would you
sign an Arizona-like immigration law?' '' said Jennifer Duffy, an editor for the
nonpartisan Cook Political Report. ''It's now on the list of issues like a
balanced-budget amendment and a tax cut. It's part of the political lexicon, and
it fires people up.''

Often that is to the chagrin of politicians in heavily Hispanic states. In
Florida, for instance, both parties have typically tried to steer clear of
immigration out of fear of angering either older white voters, who turn out in
high numbers and tend to support stricter immigration enforcement, or Latinos,
who are a growing segment of the electorate.

When Senate candidates debated last month, the hosts from Univision repeatedly
raised the issue, while the candidates -- Gov. Charlie Crist, Representative
Kendrick B. Meek and Marco Rubio -- did their best to avoid picking a side.

In Texas, where a poll conducted last month by Blum & Weprin Associates showed
support for the Arizona law, especially among Republicans, Gov. Rick Perry, a
conservative Republican, has said that such legislation would be inappropriate
for Texas. And Mr. Perry has avoided making illegal immigration the centerpiece
of his campaign against his Democratic opponent, Bill White, a former mayor of
Houston.

No Texas politician wants to alienate Latinos, given demographic trends showing
they will only increase in political clout, said James Henson, a University of
Texas political scientist.

In California, where the Arizona law divides voters, the Republican nominee for
governor, Meg Whitman, has moderated her tough stance on illegal immigration in
what is seen as an effort to woo Latinos. She has been on the defensive,
however, amid accusations that she knowingly employed a housekeeper who was in
the country illegally.

The results of the poll released Tuesday, by the Pew Hispanic Center, suggest
that the raging debate over Arizona's law and the lack of Congressional action
on immigration overhaul may have turned off many Latinos. Latinos have usually
voted in lower percentages than non-Latinos, but the current gap between their
enthusiasm to vote and that of the general population is wider than in the last
midterm election.

Just 32 percent of all Latino registered voters said they had given this year's
election ''quite a lot'' of thought, compared with 50 percent of all registered
voters in the country, the poll found. The nationwide poll is based on telephone
interviews with 1,375 Latinos, of whom 618 are registered voters. The survey was
conducted Aug. 17 to Sept. 19 and has a margin of sampling error of plus or
minus five percentage points for registered voters.

The Pew poll also found that for Latinos, education, jobs and health care trump
immigration as major issues, which could be bad news for Democrats hoping to
capitalize on Hispanic anger over the Arizona law.

But Tomas Robles, a student at Arizona State, was so enraged by the law, which
would require the police to ask people they stopped about their immigration
status if they suspected them to be here illegally, that he registered 12 of his
family members to vote, and joined other activists here in a door-to-door
campaign that signed up more than 20,000 Latinos.

''For the first time, I felt it was time for me to get involved,'' Mr. Robles
said. He was surprised to find that while some Latinos were as fired up as he
was, others slammed the door in his face. With the registration deadline past,
the new focus is on motivating voters to actually vote.

Matt A. Barreto, a political science professor at the University of Washington
who is a pollster for Latino Decisions, a research group, said, ''Latinos feel
that on many of their key issues, promises were made and not delivered on'' by
the Obama administration and Congressional Democrats.

Latinos strongly supported Mr. Obama in 2008, so they do not have the enthusiasm
of opposition that his detractors do. ''It's much easier to raise enthusiasm
about kicking people out,'' Mr. Barreto said.

That has prompted a variety of campaigns to motivate Latino voters, including
radio ads in Phoenix and eight other cities sponsored by the Service Employees
International Union and various advocacy groups accusing Republicans of
obstructionism when it comes to big changes in immigration laws that President
Obama and Congressional Democrats have called for.

In the Arizona races, immigration hard-liners have the clear upper hand. Gov.
Jan Brewer, a Republican, is running a strong campaign against the Democratic
nominee, Attorney General Terry Goddard, in large part because of her decision
in April to sign the law making illegal immigration a state crime. The fact that
a federal judge blocked the most controversial parts of the law only seemed to
have increased her popularity as a foil to the Obama administration.

Debate over the law has quieted somewhat since the summer. But emotions on both
sides are expected to rise as legal proceedings in the case are scheduled to
resume -- the day before Election Day.

Online Correction: October 5, 2010, Tuesday

This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A previous
version of this article misstated the university where Mark A. Barreto is a
political science professor. It is the University of Washington, not Washington
University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Canvassing on Sept. 25 in Tempe, Cesar Alcaraz, a volunteer for
Promise Arizona, tried to persuade a couple to register to vote. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A24) CHARTS: The Pulse of Latino Voters:
While more Latinos continue to identify with the Democratic Party, Hispanic
Republicans may be more likely to vote than Hispanic Democrats, according to a
survey by the Pew Hispanic Center. (A24)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Law Is Stoking Unease Among Latinos

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1489 words


PHOENIX -- When Gov. Jan Brewer signed Arizona's new immigration enforcement
law, giving police departments broad power to make immigration checks, she
sought to allay concerns from Hispanic citizens and legal residents that they
would be singled out for scrutiny.

''We have to trust our law enforcement,'' Ms. Brewer said. ''It's simple
reality. Police officers are going to be respectful. They understand what their
jobs are. They've taken an oath, and racial profiling isn't legal.''

Those words ring hollow to many Latinos, including Jesus Ruiz, 25, a college
student in Mesa, Ariz., who, like many Latinos here, believes that all too often
the police view them suspiciously and single them out for what they consider
questionable stops or harassment.

In one stop in 2004, Mr. Ruiz said, an officer pulled him over for speeding 10
miles over the limit and went on to question him on where he was going to school
and whether he lived with his parents, and finally asked for his Social Security
number.

''I was thinking, is he supposed to be asking me for that and all these
questions for a speeding ticket?'' said Mr. Ruiz, who spray painted himself
white and wrote on his body, ''Am I reasonably suspicious?'' at a recent protest
against the new law, which goes into effect in late July.

But it is not just young people.

Judge Jose Padilla of Maricopa County Superior Court in Phoenix, says that twice
since he became a judge in 2006, the police have pulled him over, alleging minor
traffic infractions. Even though Judge Padilla, 60, did not disclose his
occupation, he ended up not receiving a ticket. He said his complaints to the
police department led to sensitivity training for the officers.

Judge Padilla believes the stops were based on his Hispanic ancestry and the
fact that his 1988 pickup truck has large wheels and resembles a low rider, a
customized car popular in Mexican-American culture but also favored by some
street gangs.

''This has been lifelong, these stops,'' he said, ''and it is not just me.''

Now, Latinos and several police chiefs say they worry that the law, which
requires the police, ''when practicable'' and if they have reasonable suspicion,
to check the immigration status of people they stop, detain or arrest for
another reason, will widen a chasm of trust that they have struggled to close.

Those concerns have reached the Justice Department, which is considering
challenging the law in court, out of a concern, as Attorney General Eric H.
Holder Jr. said on ABC's ''This Week,'' that ''we could potentially get on a
slippery slope where people will be picked on because of how they look as
opposed to what they have done.''

Though President Obama again criticized the law at a news conference Thursday, a
majority of Americans support it, according to a CBS News poll released Tuesday.
But recent surveys suggest a split along ethnic lines, with a majority of
Latinos opposed to it. An Associated Press-Univision poll released May 13 showed
nearly two-thirds of Hispanics opposed the Arizona law, compared with just 20
percent of non-Hispanics (45 percent favored it and 30 percent were neutral).

Antonio Bustamante, a veteran civil rights lawyer here who is helping organize
protests against the law, explained by saying, ''The majority in the country has
not experienced being profiled so they don't perceive it as an issue, just like
they don't accept discrimination in the country because they have not been
discriminated against.''

Roberto Villasenor, the chief of police in Tucson, said in a recent conference
call with reporters that his city ''is divided about this issue,'' and he
worries that immigrants will not report crimes or turn in criminals out of fear,
justified or not, they will end up deported.

The law, Chief Villasenor said, will instill ''a level of mistrust''
particularly in immigrant communities and break down years of efforts to combat
the perception that the police collaborate with immigration agents.

Already, he said, there are anecdotal reports that some police departments in
the state are asking people for their papers. He said his department had
received a picture of a patrol car near a Border Patrol vehicle, as if proximity
proved that officers were already collaborating to carry out the law.

Tensions between law enforcement and some Latinos have deep roots but have been
aggravated by a spate of recent incidents and lawsuits.

A study conducted as part of the settlement of a racial profiling suit brought
against the Arizona State Police found that over a one-year period ending in
2007, blacks and Hispanics were two and a half times more likely than whites to
be searched by highway patrol officers even though the rate of seizure of
contraband among whites was higher than for Hispanics and about the same as for
blacks.

Memories also burn strong here of the so-called Chandler roundup, where the
police in that Phoenix suburb worked with immigration agents to arrest more than
400 illegal immigrants -- stopping scores of Latino citizens and legal residents
to check their papers, in the process. The city settled a subsequent lawsuit for
$500,000.

Today, a federal lawsuit and a Justice Department investigation continue against
Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, who has been criticized for using stops
for traffic offenses in a series of ''crime suppression operations'' to check
people's immigration status throughout metropolitan Phoenix.

It remains unclear what criteria the police will use in deciding what is a
reasonable suspicion a person they stop is an illegal immigrant.

The new state law says the police cannot use race, color or ethnicity ''except
to the extent permitted by the United States or Arizona Constitution.''

Some civil rights lawyers find that clause worrisome.

They note that federal courts and the Arizona Supreme Court have upheld the
right of federal agents enforcing immigration law to consider someone's
ethnicity, especially at or near the border, when deciding to question someone
suspected of being an illegal immigrant.

A training manual as part of an Immigration and Customs Enforcement program
known as 287(g), which deputizes specially trained state and local police as
immigration officers, lists a number of factors that can be used to make an
immigration query, including ''Does the subject have a thick foreign accent or
appear not to speak English?'' and ''Does the subject's appearance look like it
is 'out of place' or as though the subject has just traveled?'' and ''Is the
area known for its attraction to illegal aliens?''

Federal officials said the manual was being revised to clarify the criteria and
emphasize that several other factors must be considered.

David Salgado, a Phoenix police officer who has filed one of five lawsuits to
block the law, said it would be impossible not to take race or ethnicity into
account to develop reasonable suspicion, given the proximity to the border and
region's large Hispanic population.

Officer Salgado said the fact that officers can check immigration status only
after a stop for another reason is essentially meaningless because ''you drive
two or three blocks down the street I will find something to pull you over for
-- going over the double line, forgetting to signal for a lane change, it's not
hard.''

Nina Perales, a lawyer with the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education
Fund, which also has sued, said non-Hispanic illegal immigrants would get a free
pass.

''How does law enforcement form a reasonable suspicion that a white person is an
alien absent a flat-out admission they are?'' Ms. Perales asked.

Still, many Arizonans who support the law believe racial profiling concerns are
overblown or a smokescreen to hide a belief that borders should be wide open.

''The police will do the right thing. The majority of them do,'' said Sunday
Schwein, a retired nurse in Payson, Ariz. ''I really doubt they will pick people
out just because of their race.''

Under an executive order signed by Ms. Brewer, the state's police training board
is developing a training course designed to guide officers in developing
reasonable suspicion that somebody is an illegal immigrant.

A letter from the board to the governor last week indicated the training, in the
form of a DVD with handouts for every officer in the state, would reflect that
given to federal immigration officers as well as the state's Department of
Public Safety.

While several police chiefs oppose the law, groups representing rank-and-file
officers support it and play down the concerns about racial profiling.

The Phoenix Law Enforcement Association, a union representing police officers
that supports the law, said some factors that might provoke reasonable suspicion
include someone not carrying identification or using fake identification or
possessing foreign identification without a visa.

But many Latinos remain unconvinced.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jesus Ruiz, a college student in Mesa, Ariz., who says he
believes Latinos are viewed with suspicion by the police, protested the state's
new immigration law during a rally last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking to Streets and Court on Immigration

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words


PHOENIX -- With just a week remaining before Arizona's stringent new immigration
law is set to take effect, a federal judge in Phoenix heard, for the first time,
from Obama administration lawyers urging her to strike down the controversial
legislation while dozens of demonstrators argued both sides outside the
courthouse.

As protesters blocked traffic, chanted, sang, yelled and banged on bass drums,
lawyers from the Justice Department and for the State of Arizona sparred over
whether the law, known locally as SB1070, violates the United States
Constitution's supremacy clause, which says federal law generally trumps state
law. The federal judge, Susan R. Bolton, asked pointed questions of both sides,
but made no ruling from the bench before adjourning at 3 p.m.

The hearing marked the first opportunity for the Obama administration to explain
why it feels Arizona should not be allowed to empower local police to demand
some proof of citizenship from people they suspect are illegal immigrants.

Edwin S. Kneedler, the lawyer for the federal government, argued that the
federal government has the sole authority to enforce immigration laws under the
Constitution and that Arizona was, in essence, establishing its own immigration
policy -- which in some cases would be stricter than the federal law and does
not take into account either humanitarian concerns or the government's foreign
policy goals.

''The regulation of immigration is unquestionably, exclusively, a federal
power,'' he said.

With Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed and has fervently defended the legislation,
sitting in the courtroom, the lawyer representing Arizona, John J. Bouma,
asserted that the state law actually mirrors the letter of the federal law, even
if that federal law is not enforced fully in practice. He argued the state had
every right to ask its peace officers to call up federal authorities and check
on a person's immigration status during routine traffic stops or other arrests,
even if it created a headache for federal authorities.

''You can't catch them if you don't know about them, and they don't want to know
about them -- that's what they are saying,'' Mr. Bouma said, gesturing to the
Justice Department lawyers.

''What we get is the plaintiff over here saying we cannot do anything,'' he
added. ''That it's not Arizona's problem, that we should just live with it.''

As Judge Bolton questioned the federal government's counsel, she expressed
skepticism that the state was indeed carrying out its own immigration
enforcement policy. She asked several times whether the statute would actually
take the decision about what to do with an illegal immigrant away from federal
authorities.

''How does it become immigration enforcement policy? It's an immigration status
check,'' she said. ''Arizona cannot remove anybody, and they don't purport they
can.''

Her comments during the hearing, along with those she made during a hearing in
the morning on another suit brought by civil rights groups, suggested she is
likely to rule on whether certain parts of the law are pre-empted by federal
law, rather than striking down the entire law.

The courtroom was packed with spectators, many from civil rights groups and
charities that aid immigrants.

Outside the courthouse, people of all political stripes mounted noisy
demonstrations. Charlene Greenwood, 46 and unemployed, described herself as a
Tea Party member, wore a semiautomatic pistol on her hip and signs that read,
''Illegal immigrants have better health care than I do'' and, ''Bank robbers,
drug dealers and prostitutes are just trying to support their families too.''

She said she regarded all illegal immigrants as criminals and people who support
them as traitors. She said the state had to step in because the federal
government had failed to stop illegal immigrants from entering the country.

About 30 protesters blocked traffic, many wearing T-shirts that said ''Stop the
Hate.'' Several unfurled a large, white banner that blared ''Stop SB1070. We
will not comply.'' Others in the group held a banner in Spanish saying: ''There
is no problem with immigration; there is a problem with capitalism. Revolution
is the solution.'' After two hours, the police cleared the intersection and
arrested seven people.

Antoinette Murray, 45, said she feared the law would prompt police officers to
stop citizens who look Hispanic and arrest them if they cannot produce the right
documents. ''If they look at someone and they are of Mexican descent, they are
going to be guilty until proven innocent,'' she said. ''It makes you guilty for
being brown.''

Among the protesters were several illegal immigrants who were waiting for judges
to decide their cases. Rudy Gomez, 37, said he came to the country illegally
from Guatemala in 1997 and has been working as a roofer ever since.

He has four children and fears he may be caught and deported in the crackdown
envisioned under the law, he said. ''I'm not doing anything wrong,'' he said.
''This is my home. This is where I live.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Protesters of Arizona's new immigration law marched in front of
a federal courthouse in Phoenix on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROY DABNER/EUROPEAN
PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
 Gov. Jan Brewer spoke to reporters Thursday after a hearing on Arizona's new
immigration law, which is being challenged by the Justice Department.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Judge Blocks Arizona's Law On Immigrants

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words


PHOENIX -- A federal judge on Wednesday blocked the most controversial parts of
Arizona's immigration enforcement law from going into effect, a ruling that at
least temporarily squashed a state policy that had inflamed the national debate
over immigration.

Judge Susan Bolton of Federal District Court issued a preliminary injunction
against sections of the law, scheduled to take effect on Thursday, that called
for police officers to check a person's immigration status while enforcing other
laws and required immigrants to prove that they were authorized to be in the
country or risk state charges. She issued the injunction in response to a legal
challenge brought against the law by the Obama administration.

A spokesman for Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican who signed the law and has
campaigned on it for election to a full term, said Wednesday that the governor
would appeal the injunction on Thursday and ask for a speedy review. Legal
experts predicted that the case could end up before the Supreme Court.

The law, designed to seek and deport illegal immigrants in a state that is the
principal gateway for illegal border crossers, had provoked intense debate from
coast to coast, drawing support in several polls but generating boycotts of the
state by major civil rights groups and several cities and towns.

It renewed calls for an overhaul of federal immigration law and led to repeated
rebukes of it from President Obama and Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who
maintained that immigration policy is under the purview of the federal
government, not individual states. The Mexican government, joined by seven other
Latin American nations, supported one of the lawsuits against the law; the
attorneys general of several states backed Arizona.

The ruling came four days before 1,200 National Guard members were scheduled to
report to the Southwest border to assist federal and local law enforcement
agencies there, part of the Obama administration's response to growing anxiety
over the border and immigration that has fed support for the law.

Judge Bolton, appointed to the bench by President Bill Clinton, did allow some,
less debated provisions of the law to go into effect, including one that bans
cities from refusing to cooperate with federal immigration agents.

But she largely sided with arguments in a lawsuit by the Obama administration
that the law, rather than closely hewing to existing federal statutes, as its
supporters have claimed, interferes with longstanding federal authority over
immigration and could lead to harassment of citizens and legal immigrants.

''Preserving the status quo through a preliminary injunction is less harmful
than allowing state laws that are likely pre-empted by federal law to be
enforced,'' she said.

''There is a substantial likelihood that officers will wrongfully arrest legal
resident aliens,'' she wrote. ''By enforcing this statute, Arizona would
impose,'' she said, citing a previous Supreme Court case, a '' 'distinct,
unusual and extraordinary' burden on legal resident aliens that only the federal
government has the authority to impose.''

The judge's decision was not her final word on the case. In granting the
injunction, she simply indicated that the Justice Department was likely, but not
certain, to prevail on those points at a later trial in federal court. She made
no ruling on the six other suits that also challenged the law.

Her ruling, issued as demonstrators both for and against the law gathered here,
and after hearings in three of the seven lawsuits against the it, seemed more
likely to add another log to the fire than settle matters.

''This fight is far from over,'' said Ms. Brewer, whose lawyers had argued that
Congress granted states the power to enforce immigration law particularly when,
in their view, the federal government fell short. ''In fact,'' she added, ''it
is just the beginning, and at the end of what is certain to be a long legal
struggle, Arizona will prevail in its right to protect our citizens.''

State Senator Russell Pearce, a Republican and chief sponsor of the law, said in
a statement that he was confident that the sections blocked by Judge Bolton
would survive on appeal, noting the state's previous victories in court on other
statutes designed to give it a larger role in immigration enforcement. ''The
courts have made it clear states have the inherent power to enforce the laws of
this country,'' he said.

But Gabriel Chin, a professor at the University of Arizona School of Law who has
studied the law, called the ruling ''a nearly complete victory for the position
of the United States.''

He noted that she ruled in the federal government's favor on most of the points
it challenged.

Aside from stopping the requirement that the police initiate immigration checks,
the judge also blocked provisions that allowed the police to hold anyone
arrested for any crime until his immigration status was determined.

''Requiring Arizona law enforcement officials and agencies to determine the
immigration status of every person who is arrested burdens lawfully present
aliens because their liberty will be restricted while their status is checked,''
she wrote.

She also said Arizona could not make it a state crime for noncitizens to be in
the state without proper documents, nor could it allow the police to conduct
arrests without warrants if officers believed the offense would result in their
deportation. She said there was a ''substantial likelihood'' of wrongful
arrests.

The parts of the law she did allow were not challenged by the Justice
Department, but do figure in some of the other lawsuits filed. They include
forbidding ''sanctuary city'' policies by allowing residents to sue the local
authorities if they adopt policies restricting cooperation with the federal
government in immigration enforcement.

She also let stand a provision aimed at day laborers, who are mostly Latin
American immigrants, by making it a crime to stop a vehicle in traffic or block
traffic to hire someone off the street. But she blocked a provision that barred
illegal immigrants from soliciting work in public places.

The law, adopted in April, coincided with economic anxiety and followed a number
of high-profile crimes attributed to illegal immigrants and smuggling. It has
become an issue in Congressional and local campaigns across the country.

Terry Goddard, the Arizona attorney general who opposed the law and is a
possible Democratic opponent to Ms. Brewer, was quick to condemn her for signing
it. ''Jan Brewer played politics with immigration, and she lost,'' he said in a
statement.

But Republican candidates, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, who is
seeking re-election, criticized the Obama administration for bringing suit.

''Instead of wasting taxpayer resources filing a lawsuit against Arizona and
complaining that the law would be burdensome,'' Mr. McCain said in a joint
statement with Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, ''the Obama
administration should have focused its efforts on working with Congress to
provide the necessary resources to support the state in its efforts to act where
the federal government has failed to take responsibility.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: July 28, 2010, Wednesday



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An earlier version of this article misstated the timing of Judge Bolton's
ruling. It was handed down Wednesday, not Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Opponents of the Arizona immigration law laid flowers Wednesday
during a protest in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Illegal immigrants listened to a Border Patrol agent while awaiting deportation
to Mexico in Nogales, Ariz., on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAE C. HONG/ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 11, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Perla Farias and David Portugal Jr.

BYLINE: By MARY K. REINHART

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1499 words


THE marriage of Perla Farias and David Portugal Jr. in Goodyear, Ariz., was
marked as much by those who didn't attend as it was by the more than 250 guests
who did.

Nearly two dozen relatives -- aunts, uncles and cousins of Ms. Farias, all
originally from Mexico and all undocumented -- were missing from their June 19
wedding, the couple said. With so much focus these days on the subject of
illegal immigration, the relatives were fearful of being deported, they said,
even though Arizona's new immigration law requiring police to check
documentation for those they suspect are in the country illegally doesn't take
effect until July 29.

These relatives had long been a part of the Farias's tightly knit extended
family. Numbering about 400, they regularly came together for birthdays,
weddings and other celebrations, like quinceaneras, coming-of-age events that
mark a girl's 15th birthday.

So it was bittersweet for the couple, whose relationship had blossomed in the
desert Southwest at the Catholic retreats they'd attended and the
Hispanic-leadership organizations they'd joined.

The bride's parents, Herminia and Joel Farias of Avondale, Ariz., had come
across the border as children. Both were granted amnesty under a 1986 federal
immigration reform bill.

Mr. Portugal, now 22, is a fourth-generation Mexican-American who was raised in
Los Angeles and spoke little Spanish. In 2005 he arrived in Arizona with his
family.

He had left a serious relationship behind in Los Angeles and wasn't looking for
another. During his sophomore year at Arizona State University, however, his
father began telling him about Ms. Farias, whom he had met when she began
attending the youth group at St. John Vianney Catholic Church in Goodyear, where
Mr. Portugal Sr. is the director of religious education.

''My dad made her sound like she was my soul mate,'' the younger Mr. Portugal
recalled.

He and Ms. Farias met during a February 2007 church youth retreat in the
mountains north of Phoenix. The mood was right for soul-searching, and the two
talked about college and their fears and dreams. Ms. Farias impressed Mr.
Portugal as a ''deep thinker.''

''I was head over heels for her,'' he said, adding that she was ''into more than
makeup and high heels and clubbing.''

For her part, Ms. Farias remembered enjoying his company, too, but wasn't nearly
so smitten as he.

''I always thought D. J. was a really cool person,'' Ms. Farias, now 21, said,
referring to Mr. Portugal by his nickname. ''Very down to earth. Very chill. But
I wasn't attracted to him. I was going through a lot of change. I wanted to get
to know myself better. I didn't want to be with any guys.''

Mr. Portugal was satisfied being single, too, and busy with his studies at
Arizona State, where he'd become deeply involved in Movimiento Estudiantil
Chicano de Aztlan, a Hispanic student organization.

He hadn't thought much about immigration until his senior year of high school,
when he began working a part-time job at a fast-food restaurant in Buckeye,
Ariz., where his parents live.  There, he  noticed the Spanish-speaking kitchen
staff was not getting rest breaks. He complained to management and helped cover
the kitchen so the workers could get the same respite that he enjoyed and that
they were entitled to.

He and Ms. Farias went their separate ways after the 2007 winter weekend
retreat. But that summer they reconnected during youth-group meetings at the
church. The friendship continued to grow through frequent phone conversations,
church retreats and group outings, including trips into Phoenix to immerse
themselves in the downtown art scene, a passion they both shared.

Soon they had become so close that Ms. Farias, by then a freshman at Estrella
Mountain Community College in Avondale, began making regular Sunday drives to
his dorm in Tempe, 25 miles away. They would spend the afternoon taking long
walks, discussing the book they were reading -- or immigration raids.

Shortly before Christmas 2007, Mr. Portugal presented her with a poster-size
portrait of her that he'd painted, using a photo from her MySpace page showing
her in a T-shirt that said, ''Think: It isn't illegal yet.''

''I remember being really impressed, but being weirded out at the same time,''
she said of her friend, who seemed on the cusp of becoming something more.

Her instinct was to run. She began dating a college classmate, someone she was
immediately attracted to but who kept her hanging for days and weeks. Two close
friends began ribbing her: ''Why are you falling for a bad boy?''

She soon had a chance to mull it over at a youth-leadership retreat. Among the
activities was one in which participants were told to think about the people
they love and how their actions were hurting or helping the relationship.

''At that retreat, I realized I was falling in love with D. J.,'' she said.

Within weeks, she asked Mr. Portugal if he was still interested in more than a
friendship. He demurred, afraid of having his heart broken. But a week later, he
took her up on it.

Over the next year, their relationship matured, along with their advocacy, as
Ms. Farias transferred to Arizona State for her sophomore year and joined the
student organization. In Ms. Farias, he recognized he had ''a partner in
community activism,'' he said. ''There aren't too many women like her who share
my passion.''

The couple also led youth retreats for the church, and she appeared in a play,
''Tears of Our Lives,'' as one of three daughters left to fend for themselves
when their father is deported.

At the same time, momentum was growing in the Arizona legislature for stricter
immigration laws.

In March 2009, Mr. Portugal and several other leaders of the student group were
invited to lead a college workshop in upstate New York about Arizona's
immigration issues. ''All D. J. could talk about was Perla,'' said Gregorio
Montes de Oca, once a college roommate of Mr. Portugal's. ''Aside from the
politics, it was about how much he missed her.''

By then, Mr. Portugal said, he had concluded: ''She was my partner. She was the
only one who understood.'' He set out to marry her.

There was certainty for Ms. Farias, too. ''It felt like a really mature
relationship,'' she said. ''We were growing constantly.''

Her parents at first weren't sure about her boyfriend, in part because of his
ponytail and thin mustache, and because he was so thoroughly assimilated that he
couldn't speak much Spanish.

Mr. Portugal, mindful of their reticence and traditionalism, decided to ask Ms.
Farias's father for permission to marry his daughter. He wanted to do so in
Spanish, so he asked his roommates to teach him. He stumbled through it, in
front of three generations of the Farias family, and was given the father's
blessing.

Though barely 22 with another year of undergraduate work ahead, Mr. Portugal
approached the marriage proposal in much the same way he practices his faith --
with passion and clarity of purpose.

The couple was certain about marriage and ignored advice from friends and family
who said they were too young. ''There's no point in waiting,'' Ms. Farias said.
''There's always going to be something to wait for: your diploma, the right job,
the right house. But he's already here, and I could do all that with him.''

As they were planning the wedding, the couple heard from three uncles of Ms.
Farias's who in 2008 had relocated with their wives and children to find
construction work in Washington State.  The family members had planned to move
back to Arizona in time for the wedding, but the impending immigration law made
them decide not to.

''So we're a very big, happy family -- all split up,'' Ashley Godinez, one of
Ms. Farias's aunts from Washington, said by telephone.

The wedding plans were briefly interrupted in April when Mr. Portugal and eight
other college students (four of them in the wedding party) chained themselves to
the doors of the State Capitol Building in Phoenix to protest the immigration
bill.  (Mr. Portugal spent a night in jail; disorderly conduct charges against
the nine students were dropped in early June.)

The couple were wed in a 90-minute bilingual ceremony at St. John Vianney, a
small, mostly Hispanic Catholic church where the Rev. Drew Gawrych, its
associate pastor, officiated.

Several local relatives who are undocumented, including two of Ms. Farias's
aunts, attended, a reminder of the 20 or so missing family members who hadn't
been there to sing, pray and celebrate the beginning of a new family, and to
dance to mariachis and hip-hop at the reception that followed at 12 West Main, a
reception hall in Mesa, Ariz.

For now, the young newlyweds are living with Mr. Portugal's parents in Buckeye,
working summer jobs -- she at the church and he as a scheduler for newly
released inmates -- before resuming their college studies. ''People think we're
crazy,'' Ms. Farias. said. ''But that's because we're following our hearts.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GOODYEAR, ARIZ., JUNE 19: The couple taking their vows and then
taking to the dance floor, which featured mariachis and hip-hop. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
NANCY CRASE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 21, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Born in the U.S.A.: Should That Make You a Citizen?

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 423 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Birthright of a Nation,'' by Peter H. Schuck (Op-Ed, Aug. 14):

I was saddened to read Professor Schuck's encouragement of those who have tossed
the grenade of birthright citizenship into the smoldering debate about illegal
immigration.

It has been hard enough to develop consensus without blaming ''anchor babies''
for America's failure to write immigration laws that work.

Just one overwhelming reason explains why adults break our immigration laws:
they get jobs. Closing the door to illegal entries and those who overstay their
visas requires verifying that grownups who get jobs are legal, not tinkering
with the 14th Amendment, which ensured citizenship for freed slaves. The
professor's ''remedy,'' injecting a qualitative assessment of a child's
attachment to America, will not reduce illegal immigration.

Its departure from the longstanding understanding of the ''jurisdiction'' clause
of the 14th Amendment would undermine the citizenship presumption at every birth
by inserting the questions: Are your parents here legally? And what of their
parents? Place of birth is easily verified. Parentage and legality of status are
not.

Solutions to the real problems of illegal immigration are proving politically
difficult enough without advancing solutions in search of a problem.

Bruce A. Morrison Bethesda, Md., Aug. 16, 2010

The writer is a former member of Congress who was chairman of the House
Subcommittee on Immigration.

To the Editor:

Peter H. Shuck suggests conditioning the citizenship of children born to
undocumented parents on having a ''genuine connection'' to American society.
Aside from the challenges of determining what would constitute a ''genuine
connection,'' such a proposal would establish, at birth, two classes of
citizens: those who have nothing to prove, and those who must somehow
demonstrate their commitment to American society.

I was born and raised in Italy in the 1970s. Early in life I was made aware that
I was different. I wasn't a ''real'' Italian like the rest of my friends, even
if I spoke the same language, played the same games and went to the same
schools. Why, I asked? Because my parents weren't Italian citizens.

Later on I did become a citizen thanks to my grandfather's Italian lineage. I
guess that was my ''genuine connection.'' The principle that everyone born here
is an American, above all, represents the true genuine connection.

Edith Asibey Brooklyn, Aug. 15, 2010

The writer is a communications executive at the Atlantic Philanthrophies, which
promotes social justice.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tough Law Reduced Immigrants, Study Shows

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 531 words


WASHINGTON -- A study of an Arizona-style immigration policy in Prince William
County, Va., has found that it reduced the number of illegal immigrants in the
county, but that its effect on violent crime was inconclusive.

The study was conducted by the University of Virginia and the Police Executive
Research Forum, a nonprofit group focused on improving police tactics, at the
request of the county. It looked at data from 2007, when the policy was
proposed, through 2009.

Prince William County began enforcing the tough immigration law, similar to one
that was passed later in Arizona and is now facing legal challenges, in 2008.
The county's law required police officers to check the immigration status of
anyone they had probable cause to believe was in the country illegally.

The county executive, Corey Stewart, pushed the policy in a campaign that
polarized residents. Hispanic groups criticized the policy as inflammatory.

The county's police department, which paid for the study, expressed concern that
the law would be expensive to carry out and that it would lead to accusations of
racial profiling, and eight weeks later, it was suspended. It was later revised
to apply only to those who had been arrested.

While the county's foreign-born population more than doubled in the past decade,
according to the Migration Policy Institute, a rise largely attributable to the
housing boom in northern Virginia, the report found that there were 3,000 to
6,000 fewer illegal immigrants in the county in 2009, compared with 2006.

''We are convinced that it's a clear result of the policy,'' said Thomas M.
Guterbock, a professor of sociology and one of the authors of the study.

It is not entirely clear whether reducing the illegal population was one of the
policy's objectives. Mr. Stewart said in an interview last week that it was a
desirable goal, but that the earlier, stricter policy had not been workable.

''I believe that if someone is here illegally, they should be deported,'' he
said. ''But from a more practical perspective, we should be focusing on those
illegal immigrants who are committing crimes.''

Illegal immigrants represent just 6 percent of the perpetrators of all serious
crimes in the county, a small enough slice that measuring the effects of the
policy on crime has been tricky.

Christopher Koper, director of research at the research forum and one of the
authors of the study, said a significant finding was the sharp drop in
aggravated assaults immediately after the announcement of the policy in 2007.
But the drop might have been a fall-off in frightened immigrants reporting
crimes, he said.

''We have no indication that the enforcement of the policy led to a reduction in
crime,'' Mr. Koper said. ''Crime trends have been steady.''

Eric Byler, a documentary film maker whose film, ''9500 Liberty,'' captured the
county's struggle with the law, noted that the stricter policy was in place only
in March and April of 2008 and argued that it was too short-lived to have had
much impact. The controversy it caused had perhaps the most serious effect, he
said.

''If anything this is the measure of the controversy's impact, not a measure of
the policy's impact,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 20, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportees Who Returned Are Caught in Dragnet

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 462 words


In a four-day immigration dragnet stretching from the suburbs north of New York
City to eastern Long Island, federal law-enforcement officers arrested 54
illegal immigrants with criminal records who had previously been deported but
had secretly re-entered the country, officials said Friday.

The tally was the largest number of once-deported immigrants ever ensnared in a
single operation by immigration agents, said a spokesman in the New York office
of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland
Security.

The roundup, which began on Monday and ended late Thursday, reflected a strategy
shift by the Obama administration, which says it is focusing its enforcement
efforts on catching and deporting immigrants who had been convicted of crimes or
posed a national security threat. The announcement of that shift came after
advocates for immigrants complained that government agents were more often
sweeping up illegal immigrants with no criminal histories.

Immigration authorities announced last month that they had deported a record
number of immigrants over the previous 12 months; more than 195,700 of the
deportees, or about half of the total, were convicted criminals. By comparison,
during the last fiscal year of the Bush administration, which ended in September
2008, about 32 percent of all deported immigrants were criminals.

John Morton, director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said the operation
this week ''underscores ICE's commitment to strategic, sensible immigration
enforcement that enhances public safety.''

''ICE will continue to target, arrest and remove those who come to this country
to pursue a life of crime rather than the American dream,'' he went on.

Federal agents made arrests in the Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens; in
Nassau and Suffolk Counties on Long Island; and in Orange and Westchester
Counties north of New York City, officials said. The suspects, most of whom were
arrested at their homes, included citizens of the Bahamas, Belize, Chile,
Colombia, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Jamaica,
Mexico, Panama and St. Kitts.

More than 150 federal agents from the immigration agency and the United States
Marshal's Service were involved in the sweep, officials said.

Among the suspects was a 39-year-old Dominican man convicted of multiple counts
of sexual assault involving a child, among other crimes, officials said. Agents
also arrested a 31-year-old man from the Bahamas who had been convicted of
robbery and auto theft, officials said. When agents raided the man's residence
in the Bronx, they questioned his brother, discovered that he had also been
deported after a conviction in Florida for aggravated assault with a weapon, and
arrested him as well, officials said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 20, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Courage in Arizona

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 417 words


Four young immigrant students risked everything on Monday when they sat down in
Senator John McCain's office in Tucson and refused to leave. They were urging
passage of the Dream Act, a bill offering a citizenship path to illegal
immigrants who, like them, were brought to the United States as children, too
young to have willfully broken the law.

For the undocumented, any encounter with law enforcement is perilous --
especially in Arizona, where a new law pushes the hunt for illegal immigrants
beyond the limits of reason, proportion and the Constitution.

Three of the student protesters were arrested for misdemeanor trespassing.
Though later freed, they faced the risk of prison and deportation to press for a
bill.

Who else has shown such courage in the long struggle for immigration reform? Not
Mr. McCain, who ditched his principled support of rational immigration
legislation to better his odds in a close re-election campaign against a
far-right-wing opponent. Not President Obama, who has retreated to lip service
and vagueness in his calls for reform. Not his administration. The Justice
Department has stood by as a civil-rights coalition -- the American Civil
Liberties Union, Maldef, the N.A.A.C.P., the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network and others -- has swiftly sued to block the Arizona law.

Other supposed defenders of immigrants, Democrats in Congress, have lost their
voices. Senators Charles Schumer, Robert Menendez and Harry Reid, mindful of
November elections and frustrated Latino voters, have unveiled a blueprint for
immigration reform that parrots Republican talking points about clamping down
the southern border and treating the undocumented as a swelling tide of
criminals.

Good immigration reform needs a good bill, and the administration and the
president and Democratic leaders haven't yet offered or convincingly fought for
one. The fight for reform is stalled. It could be simple acts of protest that
ignite a fire. Half a century ago it was young people, at lunch counters and
aboard buses across the South, who help galvanize the movement for civil rights,
and to waken more powerful elders to injustice.

The disobedient students in Arizona, and four others who walked to Washington
from Florida this spring to press for the Dream Act, want the opportunity that
others take for granted: the chance to earn college degrees, to forge better
lives, to fulfill their potential in their home country. These are dreams that
to them are well worth the risk.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama and Senator Differ On Narrative of Meeting

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 336 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama and Senator Jon Kyl on Monday waged a ''he said,
he said'' war of words, disputing what the president said about enforcing the
nation's borders in a private meeting with Mr. Kyl, an Arizona Republican. But
in usual Washington fashion, only their spokesmen did the talking.

At issue is Mr. Kyl's account last Friday to a Phoenix Tea Party chapter,
recorded in a video, suggesting that Mr. Obama was holding back on securing the
border against illegal immigrants to pressure the Senate to approve a
comprehensive overhaul of immigration law.

In Mr. Kyl's telling, ''Here's what the president said: 'The problem is,' he
said, 'if we secure the border, then you all won't have any reason to support
comprehensive immigration reforms.' ''

''In other words, they're holding it hostage,'' Mr. Kyl continued, speaking of
border enforcement. ''They don't want to secure the borders unless and until it
is combined with comprehensive immigration reform.''

In setting up his story, Mr. Kyl said ''just the two of us'' were in the Oval
Office after Mr. Kyl ''kicked the rest of the people out,'' including Gen. James
L. Jones, Mr. Obama's national security adviser. When Mr. Kyl quickly says he
actually asked the others to leave, a man is heard saying he prefers the
''kicked out'' version.

Mr. Obama's spokesmen denied the account by Mr. Kyl, the No. 2 Republican in the
Senate. ''Not true,'' Bill Burton said at the daily briefing for White House
reporters, though he declined to take their bait and say Mr. Kyl had lied. Nor
did the communications director, Dan Pfeiffer, in a statement, though he did use
tougher language.

''The president didn't say that, and Senator Kyl knows it,'' Mr. Pfeiffer wrote.

Mr. Kyl was unavailable, but his spokesman, Ryan Patmintra, responded in an
e-mail message: ''Senator Kyl stands by his remarks, and the White House press
office's response that we must have comprehensive immigration reform to secure
the border only confirms Senator Kyl's account.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Many Churches, One Plea

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Daniel Cadis contributed reporting from Sugar
Land, Tex.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 877 words


HOUSTON -- The Rev. John W. Bowie knows it is hard to sell the people in his
neighborhood on the idea that they should support changing immigration laws to
give illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. His church lies in one of the
oldest black settlements in the city, where unemployment is high and many people
see immigrants as competitors for jobs.

Yet there he was in the pulpit at True Light Missionary Baptist Church on the
Fourth of July, with a full choir behind him, urging his flock to support an
overhaul of immigration laws that ''lets the undocumented come out of the
shadows.''

''All 13 colonies were made up of illegal aliens because they had not gotten
permission from the residents here, who were the Indians,'' he said. ''Then a
few years later, they brought us here and made us illegal, too. These
immigrants, we immigrants, have built the greatest nation in the world, coming
from everywhere, all over, because, you see, nobody owns this world except
God.''

All over Houston, in an unusual display of ecumenical solidarity on an explosive
issue, scores of pastors, priests, rabbis and ministers used their sermons on
Independence Day to promote the cause of fixing a broken immigration system.

The coordinated effort was part of a broad-based campaign begun in January by an
interfaith group, the Metropolitan Organization, to lobby Congress to pass an
immigration overhaul package this year. The group has collected 12,000
signatures to be sent to lawmakers and has organized workshops to persuade
churchgoers to support their effort.

On June 22, Cardinal Daniel DiNardo, the head of the Archdiocese of
Galveston-Houston, made a strong appeal in a letter to the priests in all 150
parishes to address the question in their sermons this weekend. Later, the
leaders of the Methodist, Episcopal and Lutheran Churches made similar requests
of their ministers. Some Jewish leaders have also joined the campaign.

Many clergy members say they face an uphill battle with their congregations,
some of which tend to be conservative on social issues and regard immigrants
without visas as lawbreakers. Their effort has also drawn fire from right-wing
talk radio hosts.

''It's not like preaching to the choir, so to speak,'' said the Rev. James
Bankston, the senior minister at St. Paul's United Methodist Church in Houston,
a classical stone and stained-glass church with a vaulted roof and a full pipe
organ.

Facing a packed church of mostly white faces, Mr. Bankston urged them to try to
''find an immigration policy that will fix what  is wrong.''

''Knowing how to live with neighbors in our world is never easy,'' he said.

Outside after the service, few church members disagreed openly with their
minister, though some said the issue was complicated for them. ''Obviously, in a
church this large, there are diverse feelings,'' said Dr. Thomas Leffler, an
orthopedic surgeon. ''I think there needs to be something changed. It's not
working. The border is basically open.''

His wife, Sandy, chimed in: ''Our country has been bad, historically, in
encouraging them to come in, for their labor.''

The issue has divided some congregations, as immigrants have begun to worship
side by side with members with deep roots in Texas. St. Thomas Aquinas Catholic
Church in Sugar Land, a Houston suburb, has a large number of Mexican, Nigerian
and Filipino parishioners, who now share the pews with white families who once
dominated the area.

Like many involved in the campaign, Sam Dunning, a deacon, said his hope was
''to remove the sharpness from the debate'' and remind people of their religious
obligation to welcome strangers.

''There is an argument today that those who immigrate or reside here illegally
do not deserve to be here because 'they are breaking the law,' '' Mr. Dunning
said from the altar on Sunday as he looked out at more than 100 people. ''While
we, too, wish to live in a society ordered by law, it is an unfortunate reality
that current immigration policy encourages its very violation.''

How successful the campaign in Houston will be is uncertain. In recent decades,
it has become an increasingly diverse city, with whites now barely making up
half the population and one in four people foreign born. Yet on the western end
and in the suburbs, some of the most conservative and white Congressional
districts in the country, politicians win votes with vocal opposition to efforts
to grant citizenship to illegal immigrants.

In black communities, there is similar skepticism. Some members at True Light
said improving schools and cracking down on crime were much higher priorities
than overhauling immigration. Others said the foreign workers were driving down
wages and taking jobs working-class citizens needed. ''I feel like they are just
taking away from us Americans,'' said Sherrel Justrice, 49, who attended
Sunday's service.

Mr. Bowie said it would take months to begin to build grass-roots support for an
immigration overhaul. A single sermon would not counter what he sees as
anti-immigrant rhetoric on the right, he said.

''They are told, 'They are taking your jobs, they are clogging up your emergency
rooms,' '' he said. ''The perception is that this is a Latino problem, not a
black problem.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 'WE IMMIGRANTS': True Life Missionary Baptist Church was one of
the Houston congregations that took part in a campaign led by an interfaith
group.
 SEEKING A SOLUTION: Worshipers at St. Paul's United Methodist listened to the
Rev. James Bankston, right. ''Knowing how to live with neighbors in our world is
never easy,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 10, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Tensions Over Illegal Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 723 words


To the Editor:

''The Constitution Trumps Arizona'' (editorial, July 8) offers sensible ideas
for what the Obama administration should do to support immigrant rights in the
absence of Congressional reform. Of even greater value would be declaring a
moratorium on deportations until Congress chooses to act.

Despite campaigning as a pro-immigrant reformer, President Obama and his
administration continue to deport undocumented immigrants -- the vast majority
of whom do not have criminal records or are low-level offenders -- at an
unprecedented pace. This ''enforcement only'' strategy tears families apart,
devastates communities, dishonors the vast contributions of undocumented
immigrants and does nothing to fix a system that everyone agrees is broken.

By halting deportations, President Obama could lessen the daily terror felt by
millions while showing Congress that if it won't act, he will.

Michael Mandel Port Washington, N.Y., July 8, 2010

The writer is an immigration lawyer.

To the Editor:

I hope that more people will come to understand the merits behind the lawsuit
that was filed by the Justice Department against the Arizona crackdown on
illegal immigration. Under our Constitution, no state has the ability to claim
frustration and enact laws that pre-empt the federal government's prerogatives.

This country fought the Civil War because individual states wanted to address
issues differently from our federal government. Immigration law is not a state
matter. It is handled by the federal government for many reasons, including its
complexities and sensitive nature.

Daniel Luna Fresno, Calif., July 8, 2010

To the Editor:

Your editorial describes Arizona's law as being ''pernicious'' and ''unjust.''
But most Americans would disagree. A New York Times/CBS News poll published on
May 4 showed that 60 percent of the respondents felt that the Arizona law was
''about right'' or ''doesn't go far enough.''

Arizona's law does not symbolize cruelty, but a long overdue reaction to the
federal government's failure to protect the meaning of American citizenship.

I am a Democrat and voted for President Obama, but if he pushes for amnesty for
those who have violated our immigration and labor laws, I will not vote for him
again.

Karen Pollack Greenport, N.Y., July 8, 2010

To the Editor:

Re ''Many Churches, One Plea'' (news article, July 5): Faith communities across
America provide critical human care to immigrants and their families. Churches
and other religious organizations offer English classes, minister to detained
immigrants, and support families and children struggling with prolonged
separation from loved ones.

Your article offers an important example of the faith community courageously
becoming more active publicly in support of immigration reform.

The consequences of a broken immigration system for communities and families are
devastating -- costing lives, separating families, destroying futures and
hurting our economy. President Obama's speech  calling for  immigration reform
is a welcome step, but Congress and the administration must redouble their
efforts to advance bipartisan solutions to overhaul the immigration system. As
Lutherans, we stand with newcomers to this nation and the communities that
welcome them.

Linda Hartke President and C.E.O., Lutheran Immigration and Refugee Service
Baltimore, July 6, 2010

To the Editor:

Re ''Law in Arizona Is Causing Split in Border Talks'' (front page, July 7):

Governors of Mexican states bordering the United States have echoed the
criticism of Arizona's new immigration law by President Felipe Calderon of
Mexico. These governors have decided to make their outrage known by boycotting
the conference of governors from American and Mexican border states that would
have been held  in Phoenix. This boycott is shamelessly hypocritical.

Mexico has a law regarding illegal immigrants within its borders that is very
similar to Arizona's. Moreover, illegal immigrants from Central America are
preyed upon by gangs and corrupt government officials while in Mexico, with
little done by the Mexican government to protect them. Until Mexican officials
are prepared to respect the ''fundamental rights'' of illegal immigrants in
Mexico, they should refrain from lecturing American officials.

Matthew Albanese Arlington, Va., July 6, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

'Immigrant' List in Utah Reveals Private Data and Sets Off Fears

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON; Dabrali Jimenez and Lillian Polanco contributed
reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words


SALT LAKE CITY -- A list of 1,300 Utah residents described as illegal immigrants
has sown fear among some Hispanics here, and prompted an investigation into its
origins and dissemination.

Each page of the list is headed with the words ''Illegal Immigrants'' and each
entry contains details about the individuals listed -- from their address and
telephone number to their date of birth and, in the case of pregnant women,
their due dates. The letter was received by law enforcement and media outlets on
Monday and Tuesday. A spokeswoman for Gov. Gary R. Herbert said Wednesday that
an investigation was under way to see if state employees might have been
involved in releasing the private information.

A memorandum accompanying the list said it was from Concerned Citizens of the
United States. It urged immediate deportation proceedings against the people
listed, as well as publication of their names by the news media.

The memo said an earlier version of the list had been sent to federal
immigration officials in April. It promised that more names would be
forthcoming, and promised authorities, ''We will be listening and watching.''

''We are not violent, nor do we support violence,'' the letter said.

A spokeswoman for United States Customs and Immigration Enforcement confirmed
that the agency had received a letter from the group, dated in early April.

The list came at a time of increased tension over illegal immigration, both in
Utah and in the country, two weeks before neighboring Arizona enacts a tough new
law aimed at fighting illegal immigration. The federal government has sued
Arizona over the law. Here in Salt Lake City, a group of state lawmakers is
drafting a bill patterned after it.

Several people on the list expressed anxiety that their personal information had
been released, and said they were concerned about their safety and that of their
families. Some of those on the list said the heightened pressure could force
them from the country.

One Guatemalan man, who spoke only on condition that he be identified as Monzon,
admitted that he was in the country illegally. He said he had tried hard to keep
off lists of all sorts, essentially by being the best American he could --
paying his taxes and staying out of debt.

''I have always tried to keep my record clean,'' he said.

But he struck a fatalistic note that might please the letter writers: ''It might
just be time to reflect and think if the time has come to leave,'' he said.

A woman who identified herself as Liset said she was from Mexico and in the
United States illegally. She said that her 2-year-old son was born in the United
States, but that she had filed papers to give him Mexican citizenship as well.

''If something were to happen he will go with me to Mexico,'' she said. She said
she believed her personal information on the list came from her application for
Medicaid. As for what it was like having reporters call, reading from a sheaf of
papers containing large and small details about her life, she said, ''I find it
strange that you know so many things.''

Angie Welling, a spokeswoman for Governor Herbert, a Republican, said that the
release of the material was significant, but that the specificity of detail was
even more troubling.

''Any release of private information of this nature, especially the depth and
breadth of it, is concerning,'' Ms. Welling said. ''The governor wants to be
sure that a state agency wasn't involved, and if it was, to make sure it doesn't
happen again, and to get to the bottom of who was responsible.''

Improper release of information from state records is a misdemeanor. The medical
information on the list, however, from the notations about pregnancies, could
potentially elevate the criminal implications far beyond that, to felony charges
and lengthy prison sentences, for violation of federal medical privacy laws.

Proyecto Latino de Utah, one of the most prominent immigrant advocacy
organizations in the state, received many frantic calls on Wednesday. People had
heard about the list, but because no major news organization has actually
published its full contents, the callers mainly wanted to know one thing: Am I
on it?

''Nine missed calls this morning,'' said Tony Yapias, the group's director,
glancing at his cellphone in an interview in his office. Most of the callers, he
said, were not on the list.

One woman said that not knowing what could unfold next was the worst thing.
''What's going to happen?'' she asked.

Mr. Yapias, the former director of the state's Office of Hispanic Affairs, said
he was convinced that the list had come from the State Department of Workforce
Services, an agency that combines resources for job seekers, employers and
people seeking assistance like food stamps or Medicaid. The list includes
information that other agencies might collect, he said, but Workforce Services'
application form includes a question that other information-laden agencies like
the Division of Motor Vehicles, for example, would not ever ask: ''Is anyone in
your home currently pregnant?''

Ms. Welling at the governor's office said that the state's Department of
Technology Services was leading the investigation, looking into whether a
digital trail might been left behind if state computers were used to prepare the
list. She said that Workforce Services, in particular, was doing its own
investigation, which she called ''extensive.''

She said that to her knowledge no state agency had started any investigations of
individuals based on the list.

A spokesman the Department of Workforce Services, Dave Lewis, said a team of
information specialists was looking for patterns -- whether the computer
formatting would provide clues about the document's origin or creation and
whether there had been any unusual activity in people accessing that information
inside the agency.

For people who found themselves named and workers in Utah's government alike,
the result was a real-life version of the old childhood game of ''Telephone.''
Information had leaked out from somewhere. Where? Was it accurate? Who had
compiled it? Who now had copies of the list and where might the chain of
whispers go from here? Would the leakers be found?

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The name of the woman above was among the 1,300 distributed by
a Utah group under the heading ''illegal immigrants.'' Dave Lewis, a state
official, said investigators were trying to determine the origins of the list.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE TERRY /DESERET NEWS
 MIKE TERRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Aug. 1 Set as Date for Troops to Go to Border

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 278 words


Hundreds of National Guard troops will begin deployment to the United
States-Mexico border on Aug. 1, part of the Obama administration's effort to
increase security and stem the flow of weapons, cash and people into the United
States, the administration announced Monday.

In May, President Obama pledged the deployment of 1,200 troops. More than 500 of
the soldiers will go to Arizona, and the rest will go to New Mexico, Texas and
California.

The announcement of a firm date comes as the debate over illegal immigration
intensifies throughout the country. The White House is facing pressure to
overhaul federal immigration policy after Arizona enacted a law requiring the
police to question the immigration status of anyone they stop for other reasons
if they suspect that the person is in the country illegally.

''These troops will provide direct support to federal law enforcement officers
and agents working in high-risk areas to disrupt criminal organizations seeking
to move people and goods illegally across the southwest border,'' Janet
Napolitano, the secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, said in a
statement.

In a guest column published Monday in The Arizona Republic, Ms. Napolitano, a
former Arizona governor, said special security technology like thermal-imaging
binoculars and observation aircraft would be used to focus on an area around
Tucson that has been widely used by smugglers.

In addition to the National Guard effort, 300 agents and officers from United
States Customs and Border Protection will also head to the border to assist in
the security efforts, Alan Bersin, Customs and Border Protection commissioner,
said at a news conference.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 1, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Policy Aims To Help Military Families

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 942 words


The Obama administration, responding to requests from Democratic and Republican
lawmakers, has taken steps to make it easier for illegal immigrants who are
spouses and family members of Americans serving in the military to gain legal
status.

The new policy was described in an internal memorandum from Citizenship and
Immigration Services that was released last week by Senator Charles E. Grassley,
Republican of Iowa, and caused a furor in Washington on Friday.

The memo outlined measures that the agency could take under existing laws to
''reduce the threat of removal for certain individuals present in the United
States without authorization,'' instead of waiting for Congress to pass an
immigration overhaul to give legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.

With the title ''Administrative Alternatives to Comprehensive Immigration
Reform,'' the memo prompted protests from Mr. Grassley and other Republicans
that the Obama administration was trying an end run around Congress, rather than
confronting a divisive debate on immigration legislation during an election
season. The memo was first reported on the Web site of The National Review, a
conservative magazine.

Officials of the immigration agency denied on Friday that they were pursuing any
plan to legalize millions of illegal immigrants by fiat.

Aside from a title that administration officials acknowledged was provocative,
the memo describes possible changes to the immigration agency's interpretation
of immigration law, including several that have been recommended by lawmakers
from both parties to make it easier for immigrants who are trying to work within
the system to gain legal status.

According to the memo, one of those changes has been quietly put into practice
since May. The new policy allows illegal immigrants who are spouses, parents and
children of American citizens serving in the military to complete the process of
becoming legal residents without having to leave the United States -- a
procedure that is known in immigration law terms as granting parole. The memo
says agency officials approved the new parole approach ''to preserve family
unity and address Department of Defense concerns regarding soldier safety and
readiness for duty.''

In a letter on July 9, 18 members of the House, including nine Republicans,
urged Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano to make broader use of that
measure and several others to ''provide some relief'' to active-duty soldiers
with close relatives who did not have legal immigration status. The measures the
lawmakers advocated are also proposed in the immigration agency's memo,
including the broader use of ''deferred action,'' a power that allows
immigration authorities to cancel deportations.

Among the Republicans signing the letter were Representatives William M.
Thornberry of Texas and Representative Michael R. Turner of Ohio, both members
of the House Armed Services Committee, as well as Representatives Mike Pence of
Indiana and Sam Johnson of Texas. Mr. Turner and Mr. Johnson are staunch
opponents of amnesty for illegal immigrants. The letter was also signed by
Representative Zoe Lofgren of California, the Democrat who is chairwoman of the
House immigration subcommittee.

Department of Homeland Security officials estimate that many thousands of
military service members have close relatives who are illegal immigrants. Under
a legal Catch-22 in immigration law, those families could face as much as 10
years of separation if the immigrant relative leaves the United States to pursue
a legal visa.

The representatives' letter cited the case of Lt. Kenneth Tenebro, an Army
officer and American citizen who had served in Iraq. His Philippine-born wife,
Wilma, had been caught in that same legal bind. On July 6, the immigration
agency granted deferred action for one year for Mrs. Tenebro, suspending the
threat of deportation and offering her new channels to fix her status. Until
now, officials said, they have applied the new policy for the military on a
case-by-case basis.

Mr. Grassley and 11 other Republican senators who signed a letter this week to
Secretary Napolitano about the immigration agency memo, said they were concerned
that immigration officials would use their discretionary powers to grant a
blanket legal status to millions of illegal immigrants.

''We remain concerned about potential plans for a large-scale effort to offer
parole or to defer action on undocumented aliens in the United States,'' the
senators wrote. ''We do not believe that such actions should be used for a large
population of illegal aliens or used to bypass Congress and the legislative
process.''

Mr. Grassley and a group of Republicans had written a similar letter on June 21.

Administration officials sought to play down the memo. They said the proposals
were largely ''notional'' and most had not been approved as policy by Alejandro
Mayorkas, the director of Citizenship and Immigration Services. However, the
memo is signed by some of the highest officials in the agency, including Roxana
Bacon, the general counsel, and Denise Vanison, the chief of the office of
policy and strategy.

The memo finds that it is ''theoretically possible to grant deferred action to
an unrestricted number of unlawfully present individuals,'' but rejects that
option as politically ''controversial'' and too expensive. The memo suggests the
agency could instead ''tailor the use of this discretionary option for
particular groups.''

Christopher Bentley, the spokesman for the immigration agency, said, ''To be
clear, D.H.S. will not grant deferred action or humanitarian parole to the
nation's entire illegal immigrant population.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representatives Sam Johnson of Texas, left, and Mike Pence of
Indiana, both Republicans, signed a letter in support of the policy.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE FUENTES/BLOOMBERG NEWS
 SEAN GARDNER/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Democrats Reach Out to Hispanics on Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 847 words


Democrats' decision to put forward legislation that would grant legal status to
some students who are illegal immigrants is meant to bolster support among an
important voter group going into the midterms and beyond: Hispanics, the largest
minority in the country.

On Tuesday, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, announced that he
would attach an amendment to a military spending bill with a proposal to open a
path to legal status for students who were brought to the United States
illegally by their parents when they were children.

On Wednesday, Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat from New Jersey who is also
the Senate's only Latino member, said he planned to offer his own version of
broader legislation to repair the immigration system and grant legal status to
an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants.

For months, the White House and the Democrats have been parrying accusations
from immigrant advocates that they were dragging their feet on immigration
reform. But on Wednesday evening, President Obama went on the offensive against
the Republicans, speaking at the awards dinner of the Congressional Hispanic
Caucus Institute.

''Don't forget who is standing with you and who is standing against you,'' Mr.
Obama said, addressing his comments to ''the Latino community across this
country.''

He acknowledged that he had broken repeated pledges to pass the immigration
overhaul.

''I know that many of you campaigned hard for me, and understandably you're
frustrated that we have not been able to move this over the finish line yet,''
Mr. Obama said. But he blamed Republicans for the stall, and issued a plea for
Latino voters to turn out in November.

''Don't ever believe that this election coming up doesn't matter,'' Mr. Obama
said.

Senator Reid's announcement fell like a lightning bolt on immigrant student
groups across the country, which have been in high gear all year demanding that
the Democrats move separately on the bill tailored to benefit them, known by its
supporters as the Dream Act. In the first major test of their ability to
mobilize, on Thursday they began a campaign of protests across the country and
telephone calls to lawmakers.

As of today, the bill's chances of passage are considered slim, with Republicans
saying they object to appending an immigration measure to the military spending
bill. But Congressional aides said Democrats are betting that even if the
legislation fails, they can still reap credit for trying from Latino voters in
November.

There is general agreement in Washington that any bigger immigration overhaul is
dead for this year, if not longer.

Nowhere is Latino turnout more vital to the Democrats' prospects than in the
race that Senator Reid is facing in Nevada against Sharron Angle, a Republican
who rode to the nomination with Tea Party support. Mr. Reid's popularity has
been sinking, with his state hit by the collapse of construction employment and
one of the highest housing foreclosure rates in the country. Despite a
lackluster early campaign by Ms. Angle, polls show the race is tight.

Latinos are now one-quarter of Nevada's population and nearly 12 percent of
voters, according to the Immigration Policy Center, a research group in
Washington. Their strong turnout in 2008 swung the state for Mr. Obama. While
Ms. Angle has not focused on Latinos, Senator Reid has been running
Spanish-language ads and attending rallies, declaring his commitment to the
immigration overhaul.

With the student bill, Democrats are confronting Republicans on an immigration
measure that has long enjoyed wider support than a broader overhaul. Many
illegal immigrant students who would benefit have outstanding academic records
and want to become legal so they can go to college or enlist in the military.
The bill would legalize illegal immigrants after they attend college or do
military service for at least two years.

Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois and a sponsor of the bill, said
Thursday on the floor that it made sense to attach it to the military measure
because the Pentagon had long supported it.

Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, argued against including it in the
military , though he has voted for the student bill in the past. Senator Jeff
Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said he would not consider any legalization
measures until the Southwest border was more secure.

The first showdown on the student bill will come in a procedural vote on
Tuesday. Whatever the outcome, the Democrats have seen some political gain. The
effort brought new unity for the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, the immigrants'
rights movement and leaders of the immigrant students, who have not always
agreed on whether to push for the student bill as a separate measure.

The vote gives the student movement a chance to show its muscle. Unlike other
illegal immigrants, the students have become increasingly willing to protest
publicly despite the risks.

''Our people will remember in November,'' said Carlos Saavedra, a Latino leader
of the immigrant student movement. ''They will be ready to reward or to
punish.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid will push an immigration measure. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Five Public Colleges in Georgia Ban Illegal-Immigrant Students

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 372 words


ATLANTA -- Education officials in Georgia voted Wednesday to bar illegal
immigrants from attending the state's five most selective public colleges, a
decision that immigrant rights groups threatened to challenge in court.

Georgia is the second state, after South Carolina, to enact such a ban. The
policy requires colleges to check the legal residency of all applicants and
prohibits illegal immigrants from enrolling at any college with a selective
admissions process. The ban takes effect next fall and applies to the University
of Georgia, the Georgia Institute of Technology and three other colleges.

The ban comes as lawmakers across the country grapple with whether illegal
immigrants who attend high school in the United States should be permitted to
continue to public colleges -- and whether they should be granted discounted
in-state tuition. The California Supreme Court heard arguments last week in a
case over whether giving in-state tuition to illegal immigrants violated federal
immigration law.

''The higher-education issue is hot everywhere,'' said Benjamin Johnson,
executive director of the American Immigration Council, a policy group in
Washington. ''It's a backdoor way of making immigration policy.''

Georgia's policy was approved in a 14-to-2 vote by the state's top educational
policy makers, the Board of Regents. It follows a high-profile case in which a
21-year-old college student in suburban Atlanta, Jessica Colotl, faced
deportation after confessing to the police that she was an illegal immigrant.
She has been allowed to finish her degree, but her case caused controversy after
the college, Kennesaw State University, acknowledged that she received in-state
tuition. (Kennesaw State is not one of the colleges affected by the ban.)

On Wednesday, immigrant-rights groups protested the board's decision.

''Let's not go back to an era when we deny education to a certain group of
people,'' said Eva Cardeles, 23, a sociology student.

But D. A. King, a Georgia-based anti-immigration activist, said the ban was only
the first step. Republican state lawmakers are expected to introduce bills next
session to extend the ban to all state colleges and to institute an
anti-immigration policy similar to one in Arizona.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 15, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Hardball

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 623 words


Republicans will have the next two years to set the immigration agenda in the
House of Representatives. If their legislation looks anything like their
campaign ads, there will be no way for illegal immigrants to get right with the
law and no real solution to the problem of illegal immigration. Just a national
doubling-down on enforcement, with still more border fencing and immigration
agents, workplaces locked down, and states and localities setting police
dragnets on what always was -- and still ought to be -- federal turf.

That hard-line approach mocks American values. It is irresponsibly expensive. It
is ineffective.

Two of its architects will be leaders in the House Judiciary Committee, where
immigration legislation is drafted: the next chairman, Lamar Smith of Texas; and
Steve King of Iowa, who is in line to run the immigration subcommittee. Mr.
Smith was the author of a 1996 law that bulked up enforcement and drastically
increased deportations by limiting legal immigrants' access to the justice
system. It greatly expanded deportable offenses, and left many immigrants unable
even to have their cases reviewed by a judge.

The 1996 law and the billions subsequently thrown at border barriers and mass
deportations have failed to deter illegal immigration. But this has not deterred
Mr. Smith and Mr. King, who want to go further.

They support Arizona's noxious efforts to give its law enforcement officers
freer rein to demand people's papers. Mr. King has gone so far as to defend
racial profiling (which is illegal) as ''legitimate law enforcement.'' Both
support the rapid imposition of E-Verify, an error-plagued electronic
immigration database that every citizen would have to clear before being allowed
to work.

Both want Congress to reinterpret the 14th Amendment to deprive children of
illegal immigrants who are born on American soil of their citizenship.
Hard-liners on the right derisively refer to these children as ''anchor
babies,'' part of a plot to sponsor their parents for green cards.

Mr. King once stood in the House chamber assembling a mock-up of a border fence,
with concrete wall panels and coiled wire on top, to show how simple immigration
reform could be. We could electrify the wire, he said: ''We do that with
livestock all the time.''

It is not just Republicans like Mr. King and Mr. Smith who are set on doing far
too much after years of accusing the government of doing too little on
immigration. All the Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee signed a
letter last month to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano, accusing
Immigration and Customs Enforcement of ''a lax approach'' for focusing more on
dangerous criminals than on those with minor or no criminal records. They
wondered why she hadn't asked for more money so ICE could detain and deport
every last illegal immigrant it finds, and demanded that she tell them exactly
how much that might cost. (The head of ICE under President George W. Bush once
gave the Senate a ballpark estimate: $94 billion. And that's not counting the
profound damage to the rule of law, democratic values and American's already
soiled reputation.)

Citizens who took this year's Republican candidates at their word when they said
they were concerned about deficits might logically ask where they plan to get
these billions for border fences, detention beds and a national rollout of
Arizona-style police enforcement. Or for armies of bureaucrats running a
national citizenship registry. Once the 14th Amendment is overturned, a birth
certificate won't be enough to prove your baby is American.

Americans want Congress and the president to fix what's broken and to spend
less. The G.O.P.'s restrictionist immigration doctrine fails on both counts.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Revising Our Immigration Rules for Foreign Workers

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 322 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Foreign Stimulus'' (Op-Ed, Sept. 14):

Pia Orrenius and Madeline Zavodny are completely on the money with their call
for a greater emphasis on work-based immigration to enhance our competitiveness
in the world economy. It should be the national policy of the United States to
forthrightly and unapologetically attract the best minds from all over the world
and turn them into assets of the United States.

How we do it -- through the proposed auction system, a reform of the existing
skills-based system or some other method -- is less important than that we do
it.

Matthew J. Maiona Chairman, New England Chapter American Immigration Lawyers
Assn. Boston, Sept. 15, 2010

To the Editor:

Pia Orrenius and Madeline Zavodny correctly note that today's immigration laws
are a crazy quilt of befuddling provisions that scarcely serve our national
economic interests. Their stimulative cure, however, would harm the nation in
the long term.

They propose to create what amounts to a latter-day slave auction that would
deprive talented foreign workers of a long-term privilege of remaining in the
United States or becoming citizens. Few worthy immigrants would be willing to
enter the country with their families on a promise of portable work permission
that could be yanked whenever the economy dipped.

Increasing the cost of entry through exorbitant user fees or auctions will
dissuade American employers and talented foreign workers. It will only cause
more jobs to be outsourced and more foreign workers to stay away.

We need to revamp our immigration system so that it encourages innovation,
prudent risk-taking and job creation. Ivory tower solutions that fail to
consider the motivations and alternative options of American employers and
foreign citizens will not achieve these ends.

Angelo A. Paparelli Los Angeles, Sept. 15, 2010

The writer is the founder and past president of the Alliance of Business
Immigration Lawyers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

A New Approach to Immigration Raids

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 807 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Illegal Workers Swept From Jobs in 'Silent Raids' '' (front page, July 10):

You report that the Obama administration's use of audits to force employers to
fire and not rehire illegal immigrants is leading some employers to complain
that it's creating a shortage of cheap labor. These employers claim that they
cannot attract legal American workers to perform work, like farming, for low
wages.

These employers need to understand that in a free-market capitalist system, as
we have here in the United States, any shortage of labor can be overcome by
raising wages until a balance between demand and supply is achieved. Raise the
wages offered and legal American workers will gladly take the jobs. If it turns
out that these companies cannot make a profit without paying a below-free-market
wage, then they are not viable businesses and should be abandoned.

Denis A. Grabowski Philadelphia, July 10, 2010

To the Editor:

Not all recent Immigration and Customs Enforcement raids have been ''silent.''
On June 29, I.C.E. agents raided Terra Universal in Fullerton, Calif. Dozens of
agents stormed the factory, locked all entry and exit doors, backed the
approximately 150 workers up against a wall, and handcuffed and arrested more
than 40 workers, who were promptly put in deportation proceedings.

I.C.E. is performing an audit of the factory's hiring practices and
investigating exploitative labor conditions. But by traumatically rounding up
workers and initiating deportation proceedings, these workers (already victims
of exploitation) and their families will pay the greatest price, while their
employer may walk away only paying a fine it can surely afford.

For these jobless workers now facing separation from dependent children who are
American citizens, I.C.E.'s pledge to make enforcement against unscrupulous
employers its priority rings hypocritically hollow.

Jennie Pasquarella Los Angeles, July 10, 2010

The writer is a staff attorney for the A.C.L.U. of Southern California, which is
helping coordinate legal representation for the workers in their deportation
proceedings.

To the Editor:

Your article should warn us to look beyond immigration reform. The country has
been here before.

In the late 1950s, after hundreds of thousands of Mexicans here illegally were
forced back across the border in Operation Wetback, American growers turned to
Mexican workers imported for agricultural work under the Bracero Program. Wages
for the braceros were set by law, around $1 an hour in California, and in effect
established an artificial ceiling on the wages of American farm workers, keeping
them in poverty.

The Catholic Church, labor unions and major Hispanic groups, fighting for the
domestic farm workers, brought the Bracero Program to an end in 1964.
Subsequently, organizing campaigns led by Cesar Chavez resulted in wages and
benefits that for the first time provided a decent living for American farm
workers. But because we failed to enforce our borders, the golden age of farm
employment was short-lived, ending in the 1980s as the growers found illegal
immigrants to be a cheaper and readily available source of labor.

With legalization, the United States will recreate a work force in agriculture
that has not existed aboveground in three decades. We need to be better prepared
to protect the chances of this new generation to achieve and maintain the
American dream than we were the last time. That includes being willing to
enforce our borders and to place restrictions on the importation of foreign
workers.

Michael G. Harpold Ketchikan, Alaska, July 12, 2010

The writer is retired after a 35-year career in the Immigration and
Naturalization Service.

To the Editor:

Should illegal workers be legalized and find a way to climb the ladder of
employment, businesses will continue to import and hire new illegal workers.
There will be no end to it. It will become the cycle we are already familiar
with.

The country becomes flooded with illegal immigrants. The government offers
amnesty, then business brings in more illegal immigrants to replace the ones who
can now apply for better jobs.

The only way to stop illegal immigration is to stop the incentives for it. No
jobs, no health care, no education or citizenship for their kids.

Michael Melcher Highland Park, Ill., July 10, 2010

To the Editor:

Every few weeks I see a couple of news articles that illustrate the quiet and
intelligent way the Obama administration moves behind the scenes making changes
to benefit the country. Two front-page articles on July 10 are perfect examples:
''Illegal Workers Swept From Jobs in 'Silent Raids' '' and ''Swap Idea Emerged
Early in Case of Russian Agents.''

Thank you, Mr. President, for clever and pragmatic solutions to these problems.

Coale Johnson Lone Pine, Calif., July 10, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 10, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

ILLEGAL WORKERS SWEPT FROM JOBS IN 'SILENT RAIDS'

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words


BREWSTER, Wash. -- The Obama administration has replaced immigration raids at
factories and farms with a quieter enforcement strategy: sending federal agents
to scour companies' records for illegal immigrant workers.

While the sweeps of the past commonly led to the deportation of such workers,
the ''silent raids,'' as employers call the audits, usually result in the
workers being fired, but in many cases they are not deported.

Over the past year, Immigration and Customs Enforcement has conducted audits of
employee files at more than 2,900 companies. The agency has levied a record $3
million in civil fines so far this year on businesses that hired unauthorized
immigrants, according to official figures. Thousands of those workers have been
fired, immigrant groups estimate.

Employers say the audits reach more companies than the work-site roundups of the
administration of President George W. Bush. The audits force businesses to fire
every suspected illegal immigrant on the payroll-- not just those who happened
to be on duty at the time of a raid -- and make it much harder to hire other
unauthorized workers as replacements. Auditing is ''a far more effective
enforcement tool,'' said Mike Gempler, executive director of the Washington
Growers League, which includes many worried fruit growers.

Immigration inspectors who pored over the records of one of those growers,
Gebbers Farms, found evidence that more than 500 of its workers, mostly
immigrants from Mexico, were in the country illegally. In December, Gebbers
Farms, based in this Washington orchard town, fired the workers.

''Instead of hundreds of agents going after one company, now one agent can go
after hundreds of companies,'' said Mark K. Reed, president of Border Management
Strategies, a consulting firm in Tucson that advises companies across the
country on immigration law. ''And there is no drama, no trauma, no families
being torn apart, no handcuffs.''

President Obama, in a speech last week, explained a two-step immigration policy.
He promised tough enforcement against illegal immigration, in workplaces and at
the border, saying it would prepare the way for a legislative overhaul to give
legal status to millions of illegal immigrants already in the country. White
House officials say the enforcement is under way, but they acknowledge the
overhaul is unlikely to happen this year.

In another shift, the immigration agency has moved away from bringing criminal
charges against immigrant workers who lack legal status but have otherwise clean
records.

Republican lawmakers say Mr. Obama is talking tough, but in practice is
lightening up.

''Even if discovered, illegal aliens are allowed to walk free and seek
employment elsewhere'' said Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the senior
Republican on the Judiciary Committee. ''This lax approach is particularly
troubling,'' he said, ''at a time when so many American citizens are struggling
to find jobs.''

Employers say the Obama administration is leaving them short of labor for some
low-wage work, conducting silent raids but offering no new legal immigrant
laborers in occupations, like farm work, that Americans continue to shun despite
the recession. Federal labor officials estimate that more than 60 percent of
farm workers in the United States are illegal immigrants.

John Morton, the head of the immigration agency, known as ICE, said the goal of
the audits is to create ''a culture of compliance'' among employers, so that
verifying new hires would be as routine as paying taxes. ICE leaves it up to
employers to fire workers whose documents cannot be validated. But an employer
who fails to do so risks prosecution.

ICE is looking primarily for ''egregious employers'' who commit both labor
abuses and immigration violations, Mr. Morton said, and the agency is ramping up
penalties against them.

In April, Michel Malecot, the chef of a popular bakery in San Diego, was
indicted on 12 criminal counts of harboring illegal immigrants. The government
is seeking to seize his bakery. He has pleaded not guilty. In Maryland, the
owner of two restaurants, George Anagnostou, pleaded guilty last month to
criminal charges of harboring at least 24 illegal immigrants. He agreed to
forfeit more than $734,000.

But the firings at Gebbers Farms shocked this village of orchard laborers
(population 2,100) by the Columbia River among sere brown foothills in eastern
Washington. Six months after the firings, the silence still prevails, with both
the company and the illegal immigrants reluctant to discuss them.

Farm worker advocates said the family-owned company, one of the biggest apple
growers in the country, did not fit Mr. Morton's description of an exploiter.

''The general reputation for Gebbers Farms was that they were doing right by
their employees,'' said Matt Adams, legal director of the Northwest Immigrant
Rights Project.

The Gebbers packing house is the center of this company town, amid more than
5,000 acres of well-tended orchards, where the lingua franca is Spanish.
Officials said public school enrollment is more than 90 percent Hispanic.

Throughout last year, ICE auditors examined forms known as I-9's, which all new
hires in the country must fill out. ICE then advised Gebbers Farms of Social
Security and immigration numbers that did not check out with federal databases.

Just before Christmas, managers summoned the workers in groups.  In often
emotional exchanges, managers immediately fired those without valid documents.

''No comment,'' said Jay Johnson, a lawyer for Gebbers Farms, expressing the
company's only statement.

Many workers lived in houses they rented from the company; they were given three
months to move out. In Brewster, truck payments stopped, televisions were
returned, mobile homes were sold, mortgages defaulted.

Many immigrants purchased new false documents and went looking for jobs in more
distant orchards, former Gebbers Farms workers said. But the word is out among
growers in the region to avoid hiring immigrants from the company because ICE
knows they are unauthorized.

''Many people are still crying because this is really hard,'' said M. Garcia,
41, a former Gebbers packing house worker who has been out of a job since
January.

There was no wave of deportations and few families left on their own for Mexico.
''They are saying, what's going to happen to their kids?'' said Mario Camacho,
an administrator in the Brewster school district. ''To those kids, this is their
country.''

After the firings, Gebbers Farms advertised hundreds of jobs for orchard
workers. But there were few takers in the state.

''Show me one American --just one -- climbing a picker's ladder,'' said Maria
Cervantes, 33, a former Gebbers Farms worker from Mexico who gave her name
because she was recently approved as a legal immigrant.

After completing a federally mandated local labor search, Gebbers Farms applied
to the federal guest worker program to import about 1,200 legal temporary
workers -- most from Mexico. The guest workers, who can stay for up to six
months, also included about 300 from Jamaica.

''They are bringing people from outside,'' Ms. Cervantes said, perplexed. ''What
will happen to those of us who are already here?''

Immigrant advocates said they are surprised and frustrated with Mr. Obama, after
seeing an increase in enforcement activity since he took office. ''It would be
easier to fight if it was a big raid,'' said Pramila Jayapal, executive director
of OneAmerica, a group in Seattle. ''But this is happening everywhere and
often.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maria Cervantes is a former Gebbers Farms employee.
 Guest workers have replaced more than 500 undocumented workers fired in
December from Gebbers Farms in Brewster, Wash. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW RYAN
WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Sick Detained Immigrant To Appeal to U.N. for Help

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 942 words


A 61-year-old Jamaican man who spent three decades working in New York is likely
to die of medical neglect in a Louisiana immigration detention center unless the
United Nations intervenes, says an urgent petition that his advocates plan to
submit to the international organization on Friday.

The unusual petition is a last-ditch effort to win the release of the ailing
man, Carlyle Leslie Owen Dale, a legal permanent resident who has been held for
deportation for more than five years as his court appeals languished and his
health sharply declined from diabetes, chronic asthma, liver disease, severe
arthritis and high blood pressure.

On Thursday afternoon, his advocates at the National Immigrant Justice Center in
Chicago learned of a new development that added weight to their argument that
his detention was arbitrary and unjustified: The United States Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit had overruled Mr. Dale's deportation order, finding that
the Board of Immigration Appeals had wrongly concluded that his 2000 conviction
for attempted assault made him deportable as an ''aggravated felon.'' The court
sent the case back to the board for a new decision.

But it is unclear when, or even whether, that decision will lead to Mr. Dale's
release to his family, which includes a son, a daughter and two grandchildren in
Orlando, Fla., and a son in Biloxi, Miss., all American citizens.

In a telephone interview from the Federal Detention Center at Oakdale, La.,
minutes after  learning of the court ruling, he  wept.

''I cannot understand why I should have been detained for five years and suffer
as much as I did in a country like this, just because I exercised my rights to
challenge my deportation,'' he said.

According to his advocates' petition to the United Nations Working Group on
Arbitrary Detention in Geneva, Mr. Dale has been hospitalized five times in the
past 20 months for problems including asthmatic bronchitis, acute diabetes,
pancreatitis, chronic congestive heart failure, flesh-eating bacterial
infection, obstructive pulmonary disease and a hernia.

Though doctors reported that he had suffered ''near respiratory arrest,'' the
petition says, Mr. Dale recently endured days of gasping for breath at the
Oakdale detention center; he had a nebulizer mask pulled from his face by an
infirmary assistant who accused him of ''faking it'' and told him to do push-ups
in his cell.

Mr. Dale filed a  complaint about the assistant's behavior, but it was declared
''without merit'' by the same detention official who had denied all his requests
for release while his appeal was pending, the petition says.

An outline of Mr. Dale's case, which did not identify him, was presented by
National Immigrant Justice Center advocates at a White House meeting in May
under the heading ''The Next Death in Immigration Detention.'' His advocates
said they decided to turn to the United Nations group only after fruitless
appeals to officials at Immigration and Customs Enforcement, including Phyllis
Coven, the acting director of detention policy and planning, who visited Oakdale
this month.

Brian P. Hale, a spokesman for the agency, said that despite the Fifth Circuit
decision, Mr. Dale was an ''aggravated felon,'' subject to mandatory detention.
Mr. Hale said senior officials had reviewed Mr. Dale's care and were satisfied
that he had ''unfettered access to medical treatment.''

Mr. Dale's case, and the petition to an international body more accustomed to
appeals from places like Myanmar and China than the United States, underscores
the current frustration of immigrant advocates who were enthusiastic when the
Obama administration first vowed to overhaul immigration detention. Their
petition contends that medical neglect and human rights abuses remain rife in a
system that continues to detain some 400,000 people a year.

Tara Tidwell Cullen, a spokeswoman for the center, said advocates hoped that
bringing international attention to the Dale case would ''increase pressure on
ICE to improve oversight of detention facilities, and save the lives of our
client and others.''

The government has been trying to deport him  since 2005, based on his guilty
plea to attempted aggravated assault in a 1998 shooting at a halfway house  he
operated in Uniondale, N.Y. Mr. Dale, who had never been in trouble with the
law, served three and a half years in prison and paid more than $9,000 in
restitution to the resident he shot with an unregistered gun during an argument
in which he said he was threatened with a knife.

Until the shooting, Mr. Dale's life had followed a path like that of many
immigrants to New York. He worked his way through community college as a gas
station attendant and a taxi driver, married and had three children, eventually
rising through better jobs at Kennedy International Airport and an advertising
agency in Oceanside, N.Y., and then establishing a business of his own, the Safe
Housing Project

The Safe Housing Project operated several halfway houses for recovering
alcoholics and drug addicts. Mr. Dale worked closely with social services
officials and detoxification programs in New York City  and Nassau County.

The ruling in his favor by the Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans, turned on complex
legal questions, including whether Mr. Dale had exhausted his administrative
appeals. (He had.)

But in oral arguments, the chief judge, Edith H. Jones, showed a broader kind of
sympathy for Mr. Dale when she learned about the circumstances of the shooting.
''That makes it sound more like a caricature of what Texans believe New York
justice to be -- that self-defense is a crime,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlyle Leslie Owen Dale in Uniondale, N.Y., in the 1990s.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

For Sports Wager, Mayors Have Fun With Immigration Law

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 752 words


LOS ANGELES -- It is not uncommon for mayors of cities represented in major
sporting events to make friendly wagers that might cost the loser some pride.

With the Los Angeles Lakers and Phoenix Suns beginning the Western Conference
finals Monday night in the National Basketball Association playoffs, the mayors
of Los Angeles and Phoenix turned the tradition into a political statement over
Arizona's controversial new immigration enforcement law.

The law, which makes it a state crime not to carry immigration papers and gives
police broad authority to check the papers of people they stop, already had
moved from the political arena to the sports arena. The Suns wore ''Los Suns''
jerseys in a conference semifinal game to protest the law, and Lakers Coach Phil
Jackson angered some Latino groups, who believe the law will lead to racial
profiling, by making approving comments about it to ESPN.com this month.

Now, Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles has sent a letter to Mayor
Phil Gordon of Phoenix, cracking wise over the law with a suggestion that
Phoenix Suns star Steve Nash, originally from Canada, may end up in Los Angeles
if ''he forgets to carry his passport.''

He then proposed that if the Lakers lose, Los Angeles will accept Sheriff Joe
Arpaio of Maricopa County, who has faced litigation over allegations of racial
profiling in a series of crime sweeps in metropolitan Phoenix.

''Perhaps a stint in Los Angeles would teach him that you cannot deduce
immigration status simply by looking at a person,'' Mr. Villaraigosa said.

And if the Lakers win? Mr. Villaraigosa promised to send the Republican
candidates for California governor Steve Poizner and Meg Whitman, ''currently
battling for supremacy on the issue of illegal immigration. Perhaps some time in
Arizona would show them both that being governor isn't always all it's cracked
up to be.''

On a more serious note, he proposed the winning city treat a group of their
local students to a Major League Baseball home game.

Mayor Phil Gordon said he accepted the bet.

He said he and Mr. Villaraigosa discussed the wager Sunday night and decided to
use humor to draw attention to the Arizona law.

''We though with humor we could show how ludicrous the law is,'' Mr. Gordon
said.

In a statement on Monday night, a Poizner spokesman, Jarrod Agen, said, ''The
best thing for California would be a Lakers win followed by a Steve Poizner
victory because as governor Steve will have the courage to address illegal
immigration.''

No word yet from Mr. Arpaio or Ms. Whitman.

The letter:

Mayor Gordon:

Our cities have more in common than the pursuit of a championship. We both
recognize the contributions our immigrant communities have made: Los Angeles is
internationally recognized for its multicultural history, and Phoenix is
internationally recognized for its two-time Most Valuable Player, Steve Nash,
who happens to hail from Canada.

The Suns have managed to best our Lakers in their last two meetings, but since
your new immigration policy is set to kick in soon, we look forward to welcoming
Steve to our team the next time he forgets to carry his passport with him. I'm
sure he will fit in quite nicely as we pursue our 31st Conference Title.

In all seriousness, I do want to applaud ''Los Suns'' for standing up for the
American values we all cherish, no matter where our families came from, no
matter when they came to this great country. Nothing brings a city together like
an NBA championship, although in this case, I guess you'll just have to take our
word for it.

Our wager:

Should the Suns prevail, we will humbly accept ownership of ''American's
Toughest Sheriff,'' Joe Arpaio, Sheriff of Maricopa County. Perhaps a stint in
Los Angeles would teach him that you cannot deduce immigration status simply by
looking at a person.

Should the Lakers be victorious, we will deliver to you both Steve Poizner and
Meg Whitman, Republican candidates for Governor of California, currently
battling for supremacy on the issue of illegal immigration. Perhaps some time in
Arizona would show them both that being governor isn't always all it's cracked
up to be.

Additionally, should the Lakers ultimately win, we will send a group of students
to Dodger Stadium to behold the other great sports franchise in Los Angeles.
Similarly, should the Suns best the Lakers, we call on Phoenix to treat a group
of students to cheer on the Diamondbacks.

Good luck and go Lakers!

Very truly yours,

ANTONIO R. VILLARAIGOSA

Mayor

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Birthright of a Nation

BYLINE: By PETER H. SCHUCK.

Peter H. Schuck, a professor of law at Yale, is a co-editor of ''Understanding
America: The Anatomy of an Exceptional Nation.''

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 908 words


DESPITE persistent calls for comprehensive immigration reform, the hot debate
today is about an old issue: birthright citizenship.

The citizenship clause of the 14th Amendment, adopted in 1868, provides that
''all persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States...'' This language has
traditionally been interpreted to give automatic citizenship to anyone born on
American soil, even to the children of illegal immigrants.

Congress plans to hold hearings this fall on a constitutional amendment to
change that language, something even moderate Republican senators like South
Carolina's Lindsey Graham support. With a new study showing that undocumented
mothers account for a disproportionate number of births, even some Democrats
might find it hard to stand opposed to altering the citizenship clause.

Fortunately, the history of the clause suggests an effective, pragmatic solution
that should appeal to both parties.

The clause's purpose was to guarantee citizenship for former slaves -- a right
Congress had enacted in 1866 -- and to overrule the infamous Dred Scott
decision, which had denied blacks citizenship and helped precipitate the Civil
War.

But the clause also excluded from birthright citizenship people who were not
''subject to the jurisdiction thereof.'' This exclusion was primarily aimed at
the American-born children of American Indians and foreign diplomats and
soldiers, categories governed by other sovereign entities.

The citizenship clause reflected a new American approach to political
membership. Under common law dating back to the early 17th century, national
allegiance had been perpetual, not consensual. Our country contested this
assumption during the War of 1812 after the British impressed Americans into the
Royal Navy, insisting that they remained the king's subjects.

By 1868, Congress had come to view citizenship as a mutual relationship to which
both the nation and the individual must consent. This explains why it passed --
one day before the citizenship clause was ratified -- the Expatriation Act,
allowing Americans to shed their American or foreign citizenship.

Particularly relevant to today's controversy was the floor debate on the
citizenship clause. It suggested that the American-born children of resident
aliens would indeed be citizens, a suggestion confirmed in an 1898 Supreme Court
decision involving the son of a resident Chinese couple.

Congress did not, however, discuss the status of children of illegal immigrants
-- at the time, federal law didn't limit immigration, so no parents were here
illegally.

Nevertheless, it is hard to believe that Congress would have surrendered the
power to regulate citizenship for such a group, much less grant it automatically
to people whom it might someday bar from the country. The Supreme Court has
never squarely held otherwise, although it did assume, without explanation, in a
brief 1982 footnote that the American-born children of illegal immigrants were
constitutional citizens. This history suggests that Congress can act on
birthright citizenship without a constitutional amendment.

Fast-forward to today to an America with 11 million illegal immigrants. If the
Constitution permits Congress to regulate their children's citizenship by
statute, what should that statute provide?

This question is much harder than the zealots on both sides suggest. The
argument against any birthright citizenship is that these children are here as a
result of an illegal act and thus have no claim to membership in a country built
on the ideal of mutual consent.

In the extreme case of ''anchor babies'' -- children born after a mother briefly
crosses the border to give birth -- the notion of automatic citizenship for the
child strikes most people as not only anomalous but also offensive. No other
developed country except Canada, which has relatively few illegal immigrants,
has rules that would allow it.

At the same time, we rightly resist punishing children for their parents'
crimes. Without birthright citizenship, they could be legally stranded, perhaps
even stateless, in a country where they were born and may spend their lives. And
because more than a third of undocumented parents have a least one American
child, ending birthright citizenship would greatly increase the number of
undocumented people in the country.

Fortunately, these strongly competing values, combined with the notion of
mutual-consent citizenship, suggest a solution: condition the citizenship of
such children on having what international law terms a ''genuine connection'' to
American society.

This is already a practice in some European countries, where laws requiring
blood ties to existing citizens have been relaxed to give birthright citizenship
to children of illegal immigrants who have lived in the country for some time --
Britain, for example, requires 10 years and no long absences from the country.

Congress should do likewise, perhaps conditioning birthright citizenship on a
certain number of years of education in American schools; such children could
apply for citizenship at, say, age 10. The children would become citizens
retroactively, regardless of their parents' status.

Other aspects of the larger immigration debate would continue, of course. But
such a principled yet pragmatic solution to the birthright citizenship question
could point the way toward common ground on immigration reform.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 2, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Federal Appeals Court Weighs Arizona Law on Immigrants

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 811 words


SAN FRANCISCO -- Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona and her team of lawyers defended the
state's strict new immigration law in a federal appeals court on Monday, facing
a panel of three judges who sharply questioned the way the law would be carried
out. Lawyers from the Justice Department argued that central parts of the state
law were unconstitutional and would interfere with federal law enforcement.

In July, just one day before the law was to take effect, a lower court suspended
parts of it, ruling that the state could not require local law enforcement
officials to check on the immigration status of people they stop and detain them
if they were suspected of entering the country illegally.

Ms. Brewer is appealing that decision. Whatever the outcome from the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit here, it, too, is expected to be
appealed, and Ms. Brewer has said she will take it to the Supreme Court if
necessary.

During Monday's hearing, the appellate judges abruptly ended a discussion of a
provision of the state law that would forbid illegal immigrants to work in the
state, saying that a decision in another case had already blocked the state from
making it a crime for such immigrants to seek employment.

The judges focused on the central question of whether a state could take it upon
itself to enforce federal laws.

''If I don't pay my income tax to the federal government, can California come
along and sue me?'' asked Judge Carlos T. Bea.

John J. Bouma, the lawyer for Arizona, responded, ''I don't think California
would be particularly interested.''

The panel also grappled with whether police officers were free to question the
people they stop about crimes beyond the grounds for the stop. The judges
pointedly asked lawyers for the Justice Department whether the practice should
never be allowed. The Obama administration has said that requiring police
officers to question immigration status is unconstitutional and could damage
relationships with other countries, making American citizens abroad more
vulnerable to unfair treatment.

At one point in the hearing, Judge Richard A. Paez and Mr. Bouma sparred over
parsing of the law.

''The statute says 'shall' check the immigration status,'' Judge Paez said.

''We encourage them to do it,'' Mr. Bouma replied.

''That's a generous interpretation of the word 'shall,' '' Judge Paez responded,
one of several times the judges drew laughs from the packed courtroom.

Judge John T. Noonan Jr. pressed Edwin S. Kneedler, the deputy solicitor general
representing the Justice Department, on why such a requirement was
unconstitutional.

''I don't understand your argument,'' Judge Noonan said, adding that such a
requirement did not necessarily usurp federal law. ''I would think the proper
thing to do is to concede that this is a point where you don't have an
argument.''

The judges suggested they might agree that requiring immigrants to carry
citizenship papers would conflict with federal policy, telling the lawyers not
to spend time discussing that part of the law during the one-hour hearing.

The judges appeared more vexed by a provision that would allow local officers to
hold suspects until their immigration status could be determined.

''How long would that be?'' Judge Paez asked. ''Twenty-four hours? Forty-eight
hours? A week?''

Mr. Bouma said federal immigration officials typically got back to local
officers within 11 minutes.

The law, which passed the Arizona Legislature in April, has ignited controversy
across the country and forced politicians running in the midterm elections to
take a stand on it. Emotions also ran high Monday outside the courthouse, where
dozens of protesters from both sides stood for hours. A few opponents of the law
wore T-shirts that read ''Don't militarize the state'' while those supporting
the law held signs proclaiming ''Stop the invasion.''

Governor Brewer, a Republican who is comfortably ahead in her bid for
re-election according to polls, said Monday that she had appeared in court ''on
behalf of the people of Arizona,'' and that officials in other states were
moving to enact similar laws.

''We would not be here today if the federal government had done their job,'' she
told reporters after the hearing. ''We are not their enemy -- we are part of the
United States of America.''

Mr. Kneedler said such a ''patchwork of laws'' was precisely what the government
wanted to avoid and argued that immigration was solely under federal
jurisdiction.

''This has to be considered in the light of what would happen if every state in
the nation did this,'' Mr. Kneedler said.

In September, the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit ruled
that an ordinance in Hazleton, Pa., undermined the federal government's control
over immigration. That measure would have fined landlords who rented to illegal
immigrants and penalized businesses that hired them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona, with John J. Bouma, spoke to
reporters Monday after attending a hearing on her state's immigration law.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Britain: Citizenship Restored To Cleric Wanted On Terrorism Charges In U.S.

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 200 words


A British government ruling stripping the Egyptian-born Muslim cleric known as
Abu Hamza al-Masri of his British citizenship was struck down Friday by a
special immigration court. But government officials said the court's action
would not affect the government's plan to extradite the cleric to the United
States, where he is wanted on terrorism charges. Officials in the office of Home
Secretary Theresa May said no decision had been made on whether to appeal the
immigration court's ruling to a higher British court. The immigration panel
upheld the claim by lawyers for Mr. Hamza, 53, whose real name is Mostafa Kamel
Mostafa, that losing the British citizenship he gained through marriage in 1986
would leave him stateless, because Egypt's government has revoked his Egyptian
citizenship. He has carried his fight to avoid extradition to the European Court
of Human Rights. He is wanted in the United States, where he is accused in
connection with a plot to establish a terrorism training camp in Oregon, and is
alleged to have had a role in planning a terrorist ambush in Yemen in 1998 in
which 16 foreign tourists, some of them Americans, were taken hostage. Four
hostages were subsequently killed.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Some Setbacks Aside, Latinos Reached Milestones in Midterm Races

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY and JULIA PRESTON; Marc Lacey reported from Phoenix, and
Julia Preston from New York. Ana Facio Contreras contributed reporting from Las
Vegas.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1359 words


PHOENIX -- There was plenty of grim news for Latinos in Tuesday's election
results: three Latino congressmen were voted out, the odds of an immigration
overhaul appeared to diminish and -- here in the state that gave rise to the
strictest immigration measure of all -- hardliners were re-elected amid vows to
continue cracking down on illegal immigrants.

But 2010 also signifies a milestone of sorts for Latinos, the country's largest
minority: their overwhelming support for Democrats in the midterm elections is
credited with helping to keep the Senate Democratic. And Latinos won an
unprecedented voice in the Republican Party with the election of more Latino
Republicans than ever before -- sometimes without the support of Latino voters,
who tend to put issues before ethnicity.

''The vote showed that Latinos are a force to be reckoned with in both
parties,'' said Clarissa Martinez de Castro, director of immigration and
national campaigns at the National Council of La Raza.

Latino advocates are hoping that this growing electoral clout will spur action
by President Obama and Congress to address Latino concerns. Republicans,
meanwhile, are sifting the midterm results to find a strategy to attract more
Latino voters to go along with their new Latino candidates.

The results were history-making on many fronts: Susana Martinez of New Mexico
will be the nation's first Latina governor, Raul Labrador will be the first
Latino to represent Idaho in the House, and Jaime Herrera will be the first
Latina congresswoman from Washington State. In Nevada, Brian Sandoval will
become that state's first Hispanic governor. All are Republicans.

With the election of Marco Rubio to the Senate from Florida and the upset
victory of Bill Flores over Representative Chet Edwards, a 10-term incumbent in
Texas, there will now be eight Latino Republicans in the House and Senate, more
than ever before. They will join 18 Latino Democrats, three fewer than before
with the losses of Representatives Ciro D. Rodriguez and Solomon P. Ortiz in
Texas and Representative John Salazar in Colorado.

Still, Latinos over all showed a clear preference for Democrats and were
credited in Nevada with saving Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, in his
race against the Republican Sharron Angle. Likewise, Senator Barbara Boxer of
California and Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado owe their victories in no
small part to the aggressive get-out-the-vote campaigns by Latinos in their
states, according to analysts and exit polls.

Across the West, Latino volunteers knocked on doors, dialed up neighbors,
stopped people on the streets.

''Sometimes one thinks that one vote doesn't matter, and this is truer among
Hispanics,'' said Elena Duarte, 39, a Mexican immigrant and casino employee who
rounded up supporters for Mr. Reid. ''But I would tell them, 'If you vote, and
your neighbors vote, and the whole street votes, that's hundreds of votes.' ''

In Nevada, Latinos make up 13 percent of the electorate, and 68 percent of the
ones who voted sided with Mr. Reid, according to exit polls. The support helps
explain the unexpectedly comfortable five-point margin of Mr. Reid's victory.

''Latinos may well have saved the Senate for the Democrats, and they certainly
saved Harry Reid,'' said Gary Segura, a political scientist at Stanford
University.

A poll by the Pew Hispanic Center showed Latinos demoralized in the weeks before
the election, and turnout numbers are still being compiled to gauge how many
cast ballots nationwide. But it is clear that Latinos in some Western states
provided decisive votes.

Latinos in California strongly backed Jerry Brown for governor over the
Republican Meg Whitman. Senator Boxer, who won re-election over her Republican
opponent, Carly Fiorina, also earned the vast majority of the Latino vote. ''The
Republican wave did not reach the Pacific Ocean in California,'' said Arturo
Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials, a bipartisan group.

Ms. Whitman's campaign stumbled when it emerged that she had fired a longtime
housekeeper after learning she was an illegal immigrant. Latinos were dismayed
that Ms. Whitman would seek the deportation of her housekeeper after saying that
she had been like a family member.

Latinos saw ''a huge character flaw'' in Ms. Whitman as a result of the
incident, said Mike Garcia, president of the Service Employees International
Union West, based in California. They also were critical of her for taking a
harder line on immigration in advertisements using English than in those using
Spanish.

In Colorado, the races were full of polarized talk about immigration, as Tom
Tancredo, a former Republican congressman known for his especially tough stance
on the issue, joined the governor's race against the Democrat John Hickenlooper,
who was Denver's mayor. Both Mr. Hickenlooper and Mr. Bennet won the Latino vote
by very wide margins, Mr. Segura said.

Latinos ''rejected the anti-Latino message that poisoned the airwaves throughout
much of the campaign,'' said Jessie Ulibarri, Colorado director for Mi Familia
Vota Civic Participation Campaign. ''When candidates use those messages it
backfires on them pretty fiercely,'' he said.

In Florida, Mr. Rubio split the Latino vote, but his big majority among
Cuban-Americans, who are generally Republicans, helped to cement his victory,
Mr. Segura said.

In Arizona, the election results were grim for Latinos as Republican candidates
up and down the ballot won on platforms that emphasized their support for the
state's crackdown on illegal immigration, which a Univision-Associated Press
poll conducted in May showed that 67 percent of Latinos opposed. State Senator
Russell Pearce, who wrote the immigration law, was named president of the State
Senate this week, and he vowed to promote state legislation to cancel automatic
United States citizenship for the children born here of illegal immigrants.

Terry Goddard, the Democrat who lost to Gov. Jan Brewer, who signed the
immigration legislation into law, got 71 percent of the Latino vote, exit polls
showed.

''Clearly, what happened in Arizona was very disappointing,'' said Daniel
Ortega, a Phoenix lawyer.

On the national level, Latino advocates acknowledged that the climate for
legislation to give legal status to illegal immigrants had grown more difficult
with a new Republican-led House. ''The fight for immigration reform has always
been an uphill battle,'' said Angelica Salas of the Coalition for Humane
Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles. ''The slope has increased somewhat.''

The victory of numerous Latino Republicans showed the crossover appeal of Latino
candidates. In some cases, they won in white-majority districts without
significant support from Latino voters. In the governor's race in Nevada, only
33 percent of Latinos supported Mr. Sandoval, while 64 percent chose Rory Reid,
the majority leader's son, according to exit polls. Mr. Sandoval still won
handily.

In California, one Latino Republican, Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado, son of a migrant
farmworker, was defeated in his re-election bid after labor unions organized a
major effort against him because of his support for a crackdown on illegal
immigrants.

''Latinos don't vote by surname only,'' Mr. Vargas said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 5, 2010; November 13, 2010



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An earlier version of this article misstated the Democratic opponent of a Latino
Republican who won election in Texas. The Republican, Francisco R. Canseco,
defeated Representative Ciro D. Rodriguez, not Representative Solomon P. Ortiz.

An article last Saturday about the role of Latinos in the midterm elections
referred incorrectly to the margin of defeat for Carly Fiorina, the Republican
Senate candidate in California, in her race against Senator Barbara Boxer. Ms.
Fiorina lost by fewer percentage points -- not more -- than Meg Whitman lost to
Jerry Brown in the California governor's race. (Ms. Fiorina lost by 10
percentage points, 52 percent to 42 percent; Ms. Whitman lost by 11 percentage
points, 53 to 42.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barbara Boxer of California owes her re-election
victory in no small part to aggressive get-out-the-vote campaigns by Latinos,
according to analysts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Susana Martinez of New Mexico was among a number of Republican winners. She will
be the nation's first Latina governor (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HOLM FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)
 Jaime Herrera with her husband, Dan Beutler. Ms. Herrera, a Republican, was
elected to Congress from Washington State. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZACHARY KAUFMAN/THE
COLUMBIAN, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nebraska: State Court Demurs On Immigration Restrictions

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING PLAINS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 159 words


The State Supreme Court said Friday that it would not weigh in on whether
municipalities can enact immigration-related restrictions on where people can
live or work. Judge Laurie Smith Camp of Federal District Court had asked the
court to consider the legality of local restrictions as she hears a lawsuit
challenging a Fremont city ordinance barring illegal immigrants from renting or
working there. The high court said the request did not allege a violation of
state law, so it would not take up the question. The ordinance was approved in
June, but has not gone into effect. The American Civil Liberties Union of
Nebraska and the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund challenged
the ordinance, saying it was discriminatory and violated state law. Cynthia
Dixon, a fund lawyer, said the high court's consideration of the restrictions
could have brought the case to a ''quicker conclusion,'' but now the case will
play out in federal court.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Report Questions the System Used to Flag Rikers Island Inmates for Deportation

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK; Kirk Semple contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 959 words


As the Obama administration steps up efforts to deport immigrants held on
criminal charges, federal officials in New York City have long been on the job.
At the city's main jail on Rikers Island, immigration officers comb through
lists of foreign-born inmates, then question, detain and deport about 3,200 of
them a year.

Immigration authorities say they decide whom to flag by considering the severity
of the crime and the inmate's criminal history and immigration record. Their top
priority, they say, is removing the most dangerous offenders.

But a new analysis of Rikers Island statistics by Justice Strategies, a prisoner
advocacy group based in New York, shows that among inmates held on drug charges,
those accused of misdemeanors were chosen for deportation proceedings more often
than those charged with felonies. Suspects charged with lower-level felonies
were selected more often than those charged with more serious crimes. And, the
report says, inmates were flagged for possible deportation in patterns that
mirrored simple jailhouse demographics.

The study, which was released on Wednesday, comes as debate swirls around Secure
Communities, a new federal program that will require local law enforcement
officers to send fingerprints of everyone booked into jail to the Department of
Homeland Security, which will compare them with prints in its databases. If
officials find that the suspect is in the country illegally, or is a noncitizen
with a criminal record, they may pursue deportation.

Federal officials say the program will protect the public and streamline
enforcement efforts. But critics protest that it will sweep up immigrants who
have not been convicted of or even charged with serious crimes, and will
discourage immigrants from going to the police as victims or witnesses, for fear
of deportation.

The city's relationship with Immigration and Customs Enforcement came under
scrutiny on Wednesday at a joint hearing of two City Council committees. Several
members voiced concern about the Rikers Island program, which has been in place
for more than a decade.

Advocates for immigrants point to the new study as evidence that federal
authorities sometimes show little discretion in whom they choose to deport.
''These numbers suggest that there's not a system in place to identify people
based on risk, and ICE is simply tagging people who show up,'' said Aarti
Shahani, the study's author.

Ivan L. Ortiz-Delgado, a spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
disputed that, saying the agency's priority at the jail was to ''remove from the
country first those criminal, convicted aliens who pose a threat to the safety
of our communities and national security.''

At Rikers Island, federal immigration officers stationed there place holds, or
''detainers,'' on noncitizen inmates they want to send into deportation
proceedings. The detainers allow jail officials to hold inmates for 48 hours
after their scheduled release, so they can be transferred to immigration
custody.

The Justice Strategies report studied the records of 1,215 noncitizen Rikers
inmates in 2008 whose top charge was a drug-related offense. Of those, 552, or
45 percent, were issued detainers.

The report shows that only 34 percent of inmates facing the most serious charges
received detainers, compared with 48 percent of those facing misdemeanor
charges. About 44 percent of inmates charged with lower-level felonies received
detainers.

City and federal officials said that the pool of inmates was too narrow to offer
insight into enforcement strategy, and that the study did not consider key
factors, like an inmate's criminal history, that influence the issuing of
detainers.

Bloomberg administration officials did their own analysis on those inmates and
found that 72 percent of those with detainers had prior criminal records.

''We've learned how critically important it is to both public safety and
national security to ensure that government agencies work together to connect
the dots,'' said John Feinblatt, the mayor's chief policy adviser. ''Yet some
apparently believe that immigrants suspected of being here illegally should get
a special get-out-of-jail-free card even when there are legitimate concerns
about the risks they may pose.''

While the Justice Strategies report is far from conclusive, advocates for
immigrants say it identifies troubling patterns. It shows that the distribution
of charges across the inmate pool nearly matched the distribution of detainers,
suggesting that detainers were not handed down on the individual merits of each
case.

For example, roughly 26 percent of the inmates studied were charged with
low-level misdemeanors; that group represented roughly 28 percent of those who
received detainers. About 7 percent of the inmates were charged with serious
felonies; that group represented 6 percent of those with detainers.

The study also concluded that detainers slowed down the already overburdened
jail system. Suspects with detainers spent an average of 134 days in custody,
more than twice as long in jail as the average inmate. Those without detainers
stayed 59 days.

Sharman Stein, a Department of Correction spokeswoman, said that the extended
stays could not be explained solely by the detainers, and that it would be
impossible to fully explain the longer stays without more information about each
case, like an inmate's prior criminal history.

But immigration lawyers said the long delays cited in the report should come as
no surprise to anyone who works with inmates and immigrants. Inmates with
detainers, they said, have no incentive to raise bail because once they raise
the money, correction officials hand them over to immigration authorities. Only
1 percent of inmates in the study with detainers paid bail.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A man testified on Wednesday during a Council hearing on city
cooperation with Immigration and Customs Enforcement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 250 words


International

BELGIAN CATHOLICS FORM

Alternative Churches

About a dozen alternative Catholic churches have sprouted and grown in the last
two years in Dutch-speaking regions of Belgium and the Netherlands. They are an
uneasy reaction to a combination of forces: a shortage of priests, the closing
of churches, dissatisfaction with Vatican appointments of conservative bishops
and, most recently, dismay over cover-ups of priestly sexual abuse. PAGE A5

COMPENSATING DETAINEES

The British government said it had agreed to pay compensation running into
millions of dollars to 15 former detainees at Guantanamo Bay and one man still
held there who have accused Britain's intelligence agencies of colluding in
their torture in the American-run detention system. PAGE A14

National

BIPARTISAN GROUP OFFERS

Plan to Cut Deficit

A bipartisan group will present a deficit-reduction plan that goes beyond the
spending cuts and tax proposals from the chairmen of President Obama's fiscal
commission. It calls for a one-year holiday from Social Security payroll taxes
to encourage hiring and for a national sales tax to reduce deficits. PAGE A20

STUDY ON IMMIGRATION POLICY

A study of an Arizona-style immigration policy in Prince William County, Va.,
has found that it reduced the number of illegal immigrants in the county, but
that its effect on violent crime was inconclusive. The law required police
officers to check the immigration status of anyone they had probable cause to
believe was in the country illegally. PAGE A17

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                     (Lens)

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday

Pictures of the Day: Arizona and Elsewhere

BYLINE: MERRILL D. OLIVER

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 44 words



HIGHLIGHT: Protests greeted the dawn of a new law in Arizona.


Although a federal judge on Wednesday had blocked the most controversial parts
of Arizona's new immigration enforcement legislation  - at least temporarily
quashing a state policy that had inflamed the national debate over immigration -
the law took effect on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2017

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              51 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama's Aunt Is Granted Asylum on Second Try

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 526 words


BOSTON -- An immigration judge has granted asylum to President Obama's aunt,
allowing her to stay in the United States and possibly become a citizen in about
six years, her lawyers said Monday.

Zeituni Onyango, 57, who lives in public housing in South Boston, is the
half-sister of Mr. Obama's late father and is from Kenya. She moved to the
United States in 2000 on a valid visa and had been seeking asylum since 2002.

Judge Leonard Shapiro, an immigration judge in Boston, reached his determination
on Friday. Her lawyers announced it on Monday at their offices in Cleveland.
While people seeking asylum must show that they would face persecution if they
returned to their homeland, the exact basis of Ms. Onyango's claim, and the
judge's decision, remained private.

''The asylum process is confidential, and she wants to keep it that way, so we
can't get into details on why the judge granted asylum or the exact basis for
her claim,'' Scott Bratton, one of her lawyers, told reporters in Cleveland on
Monday, according to The Associated Press. ''She doesn't want people to feel
sorry for her.''

White House officials said Mr. Obama had played no role in the case.

Mr. Obama wrote about his aunt in his 1995 memoir, ''Dreams From My Father.''
When he visited Kenya in 1988, she served as his guide and told him that his
father, who died in a car crash in 1982, took her in when her husband became
abusive and she had no money.

Ms. Onyango applied for asylum in 2002. She was rejected in 2004 and ordered to
leave the country, but she continued to fight the order and stayed in the
country illegally. She was living here in relative anonymity until just before
the 2008 presidential election, when The Times of London found her in what it
described as ''rundown public housing.''

Mr. Obama's aides said at the time that he had not known his aunt was in the
United States illegally and that ''any and all appropriate laws'' covering her
situation should be followed. The aides said that he would not intervene in her
case and that the two had had no contact.

It turned out that Ms. Onyango had made small contributions to Mr. Obama's
campaign, amounting to $265, but the campaign had returned them. She attended
Mr. Obama's inauguration in January in Washington, but the two did not see each
other.

At one point, Ms. Onyango left Boston for Cleveland, where she had relatives, to
escape the media attention. She later returned to Boston while another one of
her lawyers, Margaret Wong of Cleveland, pressed her case.

In December 2008, Judge Shapiro reopened the case. This February, he held closed
hearings, where she appeared in a wheelchair. Ms. Onyango has Guillain-Barre
syndrome, an autoimmune disorder.

Ms. Wong has said that if Ms. Onyango were forced to return to Kenya, she would
face undue attention and perhaps danger because her nephew was so famous.

Ms. Wong said in a statement that after the granting of asylum, Ms. Onyango
could apply for a work permit, a Social Security number and a driver's license
or state identification card. After one year, she could apply for a permanent
green card, and then in five years for citizenship.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Zeituni Onyango, after a closed court hearing in February. The
president did not intervene in her case, officials said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN
WIGGS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Advocates of an Immigration Overhaul Question a Border Deployment

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from
Los Angeles.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1112 words


WASHINGTON -- In deciding to deploy up to 1,200 National Guard troops to bolster
security at the Mexican border, President Obama has stepped into one of the
thorniest issues facing American presidents -- illegal immigration -- and has
confounded allies who say he is squandering his chance to address it in a
comprehensive way.

The White House says it is sending the troops solely to combat drug smuggling, a
problem highlighted by the recent killing of an Arizona rancher. But any move
toward border security invariably raises passions in the immigration debate, and
on Wednesday advocates for overhauling the system were questioning the
president's intentions.

They said that in focusing first on border security, Mr. Obama might be giving
up his best leverage for winning approval of broader but more politically
contentious steps to address the status of the millions of immigrants already in
the United States illegally, and the needs of employers who rely on their labor.

''I'm trying to reconcile the stated belief of this president when he was a
candidate, what he has said publicly -- as recently as a naturalization ceremony
last month -- and what his actions are,'' said Angela Kelley, vice president for
immigration policy at the Center for American Progress, a left-leaning
organization that is a close ally of the Obama administration. ''I think there's
a big gap there.''

Mr. Obama's decision to send the National Guard focused attention on the intense
political pressures facing him as he wades into the issue during this midterm
election year. Republicans are demanding that he improve border security before
they cooperate on an immigration bill. Some moderate Democrats facing difficult
re-election races are also demanding tougher action at the border.

But Democrats also see an opportunity to win the political allegiance of the
fast-growing Hispanic population for years or decades to come if they can handle
the issue adeptly. In particular, Democrats are eager to balance support for
enhanced border security with an approach that they can contrast to the policies
championed by many Republicans, starting with Arizona's new law that gives
police a greater role in immigration enforcement.

Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who is trying to generate
support for comprehensive immigration legislation in the Senate, said toughening
border security would help the broader effort.

''Given the fact the problems at the border have turned to become seriously drug
related, I think it's necessary and helps comprehensive reform,'' Mr. Schumer
said, ''because it shows that Democrats will fight for both parts of the
issue.''

In the Senate, Mr. Obama's 2008 Republican presidential rival, John McCain of
Arizona, was driving colleagues toward a vote, originally scheduled for
Wednesday but then postponed, on a plan to send 6,000 troops to the border. The
White House, which has been quietly working on its own plan to send troops,
hurriedly released that plan on Tuesday so that Democrats could have an
alternative, according to one senior administration official, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity.

Representative Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona Democrat who, like Senator McCain,
faces a tough re-election race, has been leaning hard on the administration. Two
weeks ago, she showed up for a meeting with Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano carrying a newspaper article about the Arizona rancher, who was her
constituent, and asked that Ms. Napolitano show it to the president.

''She tucked it under her arm, and as she left she said she had a meeting with
him that afternoon,'' Ms. Giffords said, adding, ''I've been a thorn in the side
of the administration, repeatedly calling for the redeployment of the Guard to
the area, and I have not backed down.''

Since the beginning of his presidency, Mr. Obama has been dogged by questions
about his commitment to immigration legislation that would provide a path to
citizenship for the estimated 12 million people who are living in this country
without legal documentation. Other priorities, notably the economy and health
care legislation, put the issue on the back burner for the first year of his
administration.

That changed last month, when Arizona enacted its new law, aimed at identifying,
prosecuting and deporting illegal immigrants. The measure unleashed immediate
protests, and Mr. Obama, speaking at a naturalization ceremony for active-duty
service members, condemned it on the day it was signed into law. He called on
Congress to take up an immigration overhaul.

On Wednesday, Mr. Obama's attorney general, Eric H. Holder Jr., heard from
police chiefs who oppose the Arizona law. The chiefs, representing cities
including Phoenix, Tucson, Los Angeles, Houston, Philadelphia and Minneapolis,
told Mr. Holder that the law would increase crime, not decrease it, as backers
claim.

The Arizona bill put immigration squarely back on the Congressional agenda, but
Mr. Obama has been having trouble persuading Republicans to sign on. During a
Cinco de Mayo celebration in the Rose Garden last month, Mr. Obama told an
audience of Hispanic leaders that he was determined to pass legislation, but
that he could not do so without Republican support.

The decision to send troops could be an attempt to get that support. At a testy
meeting with Senate Republicans on Tuesday, before the White House disclosed its
decision about the National Guard deployment, Mr. McCain pressed Mr. Obama on
what he was doing to improve border security. Mr. Obama did not reveal his
border security plan, but did ask for Republicans' help in passing immigration
legislation.

''The president told the Republican caucus yesterday that he wants to move
forward; he feels that this problem has festered too long and needs a
solution,'' said David Axelrod, Mr. Obama's senior adviser, adding that the
decision to send troops was ''not related to the meeting.''

Advocates for immigration reform say the two issues cannot be divorced. Clarissa
Martinez, director of immigration and national campaigns for the National
Council of La Raza, questioned why Mr. Obama would satisfy Republicans' demands
for increasing border security without extracting a commitment for comprehensive
reform in return.

''Republicans keep saying they need to do these things first before they give
immigration reform its due,'' she said. ''One could argue that perhaps the White
House was trying to say: 'O.K., you're saying this is the impediment to
negotiations. Fine, let's remove the impediment and get to the negotiations.'
The problem here is, that was not stated. I can't see the strategy in it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: National Guard troops are being sent to the U.S.-Mexico border
as a response to drug smuggling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT YORK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Potential Obama Ally Becomes an Outspoken Foe on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1372 words


WASHINGTON -- Representative Luis V. Gutierrez was all set to be a friend of the
Obama administration, a point man for the White House among Latinos. A nine-term
Democrat, he had cut his political teeth in the wards of Chicago, just as Barack
Obama did, and the two knew each other from their parallel early careers in
Illinois.

But instead of a favorite ally, Mr. Gutierrez has become a noisy, needling
outsider -- and not just in the halls of Congress. Saying he was fed up with the
president not leading an overhaul of immigration laws, Mr. Gutierrez was
arrested along with more than 30 other protesters on May 1 after a sit-in in
front of the White House.

Mr. Gutierrez's frustration was only deepened by the president's announcement
this week that he would send up to 1,200 more National Guard troops to the
border with Mexico, a move Mr. Gutierrez called ''sound-bite driven politics.''

''There is 25 years of hard evidence that the president is wrong,'' said Mr.
Gutierrez, who is chairman of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus's immigration
task force. ''Border security and immigration are not one-dimensional problems
that can be solved by more boots on the border.''

Demonstrators plan to take to the streets again in several cities this weekend
-- to protest Arizona's tough new immigration law, the president's planned troop
increase at the border, and the failure of Congress to move an immigration
overhaul bill including measures to give legal status to millions of illegal
immigrants.

In recent months Mr. Gutierrez has emerged as a national leader of Latinos and
immigrants favoring the overhaul, who up to now have largely been organized into
local community groups with no iconic faces.

''What began as a legislative campaign is transforming into a social movement,''
said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, a group here that
lobbies for an overhaul bill that includes legalization. ''Luis is the closest
thing we have to an Al Sharpton figure who has instant credibility with the
community he speaks for.''

Allies say Mr. Gutierrez's tenacity and his following among Latinos have helped
keep the immigration overhaul alive in Washington at a time when many
administration officials wish it would go away, at least for now. But even some
of Mr. Gutierrez's friends say that his sometimes intemperate broadsides and
showy tactics have irritated the White House and won him no friends among
Republicans, some of whom would have to sign on to any overhaul bill for it to
pass.

Mr. Gutierrez, 56, said he believes he has a responsibility to point out that
Mr. Obama has not fulfilled a campaign pledge to pass overhaul legislation,
which is known to supporters as comprehensive immigration reform.

''I'm not demeaning him,'' said Mr. Gutierrez, ''I'm talking to him about
something he made a promise about. You shouldn't think you challenge somebody
simply because you wish them ill. What if you challenge them so they can do
better?''

In that spirit, Mr. Gutierrez points out that it is only because of Mr. Obama
that he is still in Congress.

In late 2006, after the House approved a bill he abhorred cracking down on
illegal immigrants, and with his wife, Soraida, struggling with cancer, Mr.
Gutierrez said he would not seek re-election in 2008.

He changed his mind the next year, when Mr. Obama declared his presidential run
and his wife's  illness went into remission. He  was thrilled when Mr. Obama
said he would take up immigration in his first year as president. Now midterm
elections are looming, and in the Senate -- where leaders in both houses agree
the legislative effort has to begin -- there is not a bill, only a Democratic
blueprint. (Mr. Gutierrez presented a bill in the House in December.)

''Maybe next time you should put in a caveat,'' Mr. Gutierrez said in his
Capitol Hill office recently, imagining a debate with Mr. Obama. '' 'Vote for
me, and I'm going to do immigration -- unless A, B and C happen.'

''That's not what you said!'' he said ''You're sophisticated. You went to
Harvard. You knew the implications of what you were saying.''

As an unusually talkative lawmaker, Mr. Gutierrez does not do pith or
detachment, Congressional aides and immigrant advocates said. Those who have
participated in closed-door immigration negotiations with him recall Mr.
Gutierrez weeping over stories of families sundered by deportation, leaping to
his feet in rage at setbacks and being elated by small victories.

But for years, on immigration Mr. Gutierrez had been a more typical dealmaker.
In 2007, he crafted a bipartisan bill with Representative Jeff Flake, Republican
of Arizona, which included enforcement provisions and a guest worker program
that brought him criticism from Latino and immigrant groups.

The proposal died that year along with an overhaul bill supported by President
George W. Bush that failed in the Senate.

Then, one month after Mr. Obama's inauguration, Mr. Gutierrez embarked on a
town-hall-meeting tour, called Familias Unidas (United Families), that took him
to 16 cities to raise support for an immigration overhaul. Citizens and legal
immigrants were invited to recount hardships they faced because loved ones
lacked legal status. Most meetings were held in churches.

Mr. Gutierrez played to packed pews across the country. By the end of the tour,
he began to sound more like a preacher than a politician.

''He took immigration from a specialty policy issue to a Latino identity litmus
test: are you for or against us as Latinos?,'' said Tamar Jacoby, a Republican
who heads ImmigrationWorks USA, a business lobbying group.

It was an identity hard won. Born in Chicago to Puerto Rican parents, Mr.
Gutierrez has maintained his ties to the island. His civil disobedience arrest
this month was not his first; he was arrested in 2001 on the Puerto Rican island
of Vieques, in a protest over bombing exercises by the United States Navy.

Latinos comprise 75 percent of his Chicago district. Most are of Mexican origin.
His support there has given him confidence to take on people in high places. He
has a history of friction with Rahm Emanuel, another Chicagoan and Mr. Obama's
chief of staff, which dates back to when Mr. Emanuel was a Democratic leader in
the House.

''I think he sees comprehensive immigration reform as something the president
does not need to prioritize,'' Mr. Gutierrez fumed.

Mr. Gutierrez said his turning point was the State of the Union address in
January, when the president made only passing mention of immigration. At a rally
before his May Day sit-in, Mr. Gutierrez ridiculed statements by Mr. Obama that
Congress might have too much on its plate to handle immigration.

''Don't worry about us, Mr. President,'' he said. ''We'll get up a little
earlier if necessary.''

Even as his stature as a Latino leader is growing, he faces trouble at home. In
a series of articles, The Chicago Tribune has reported that Mr. Gutierrez
received a loan from a Chicago real estate developer, Calvin Boender, who was
convicted in March on bribery charges, in a case that did not involve Mr.
Gutierrez. Citing court records, The Tribune reported that Mr. Gutierrez wrote a
letter and met with city officials on Mr. Boender's behalf over zoning issues.

While acknowledging the loan, Mr. Gutierrez adamantly denied any wrongdoing. He
produced financial records he said showed he had taken a bridge loan that was
repaid after six weeks, part of a routine payment plan on a property he bought
from Mr. Boender.

Other Hispanic lawmakers laud Mr. Gutierrez's commitment, though notalways his
strategies. ''I know the discomfort it causes the White House and the party
leadership,'' said Representative Raul M. Grijalva of Arizona, another Democrat
on the Hispanic caucus. ''What he's doing is necessary.''

But Representative Nydia M. Velazquez, Democrat of New York, the Congressional
Hispanic Caucus leader, said the focus should be on behind-the-scenes efforts to
win over Republican legislators. But Mr. Gutierrez remains focused on the
president.

''This is the moment for him to act,'' Mr. Gutierrez said. ''And if we stumble,
if somehow we fail, let's fail together. Let's fail fighting!''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Luis V. Gutierrez, facing camera, and other House
members denounced an Arizona law at a news conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG
MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation For a Suspect In Bomb Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 312 words


BOSTON (AP) -- A man arrested in Massachusetts during the investigation into the
failed Times Square car bombing has been ordered by an immigration judge to be
deported to his native Pakistan.

Judge Robin E. Feder made the ruling on Thursday in the case of Aftab Khan, said
Kathryn Mattingly of the Executive Office for Immigration Review.

Mr. Khan was one of three men arrested on immigration charges on May 13 and
suspected of supplying money to the primary suspect, Faisal Shahzad, through an
informal transfer network. Authorities said the men might not have known how the
money would be used.

Mr. Khan has 30 days to appeal the decision and will not be deported before
then, said Gillian Brigham, an Immigration and Customs Enforcement spokeswoman.

A copy of the decision, which can  be obtained only through  a Freedom of
Information Act request, was not immediately available on Friday. A lawyer in
the office of Mr. Khan's attorney, Saher J. Macarius, said the office had not
received the decision.

At a hearing on May 20, Mr. Macarius asked Judge Feder to allow Mr. Khan to
voluntarily leave the country, while the federal authorities asked the judge to
keep Mr. Khan in the United States.

Mr. Shahzad, 30, of Bridgeport, Conn., is accused of leaving a sport utility
vehicle rigged with a car bomb in Times Square on May 1. The bomb never
exploded, and no one was hurt. Mr. Shahzad was arrested on May 3 on a plane that
was preparing to take off for Dubai from John F. Kennedy International Airport.

Mr. Khan, a gas station attendant who lived in Watertown, Mass., said he had
never heard of Mr. Shahzad before his arrest. But federal officials said Mr.
Khan had Mr. Shahzad's first name and number in his cellphone and written on an
envelope in his apartment. After the hearing, Mr. Macarius questioned whether
the confiscated cellphone belonged to Mr. Khan.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

San Diego Police Investigate the Death of a Mexican Man Resisting Deportation

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 488 words


LOS ANGELES -- The San Diego police are investigating the death of a Mexican man
who was struck with a baton and shocked with a stun gun by federal officers as
he resisted being deported. The Mexican government and a human rights group
condemned the death, which comes after Mexico has condemned Arizona's tough new
immigration enforcement law.

The police said Anastacio Hernandez-Rojas, 32, was struck and stunned by several
officers from the Border Patrol and Customs and Border Protection on Saturday as
they were trying to subdue him.

He had been detained by the Border Patrol on Friday east of San Diego after he
crossed into the United States from Mexico with his brother. He was taken to a
Border Patrol station and, as is customary with Mexican nationals without a
criminal record, signed papers agreeing to be quickly deported without a
hearing.

He was taken in a van to the San Ysidro border crossing, 15 miles south of
downtown San Diego, where officers planned to walk him to a gate and release him
to Mexican immigration authorities.

But as they removed his handcuffs about 25 feet from the gate, Mr.
Hernandez-Rojas began fighting with officers, said Capt. Jim Collins of the San
Diego Police Department, which is investigating the case under an agreement it
has with Customs and Border Protection for deaths involving officers.

One officer struck him with a baton, and another fired a Taser, Captain Collins
said.

Shortly afterward, the officers discovered that Mr. Hernandez-Rojas was not
breathing, administered cardiopulmonary resuscitation and called for an
ambulance. He was taken to a local hospital and died after a short time on life
support, Captain Collins said.

Customs and Border Protection released a statement saying the man ''became
combative,'' leading officers to use the Taser to ''subdue the individual and
maintain officer safety.'' The agency, which is also investigating the death,
declined to comment further.

The San Diego medical examiner is investigating the cause of death. It was not
known if Mr. Hernandez-Rojas had underlying medical problems, but an autopsy
will determine that, Captain Collins said.

Mexican  officials said they were troubled by reports in the Mexican press,
which said witnesses on the Mexican side of the border saw officers kick and
beat Mr. Hernandez-Rojas.

''The government of Mexico condemns the physical abuse'' used against Mr.
Hernandez-Rojas, said Ricardo Alday, a spokesman for the Mexican Embassy in
Washington.

Family members told the American Friends Services Committee, a human rights
group, that Mr. Hernandez-Rojas had lived in San Diego since he was 14 and had
five American-born children.

He had been deported two months ago.

Christian Ramirez, a national coordinator for the committee, said, ''It is hard
for us to believe that any sort of scuffle or resistance from Anastacio would
justify such a use of force to claim his life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 3, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

3-Day Fast Supports Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 717 words


With the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island as a backdrop, more than 40 people,
including several New York politicians and clergy members, gathered in Battery
Park on Wednesday to start a three-day fast to press for a comprehensive
immigration overhaul.

The protest is the latest in a wave of demonstrations by immigrants and their
advocates in the New York region and around the country that have included
rallies, vigils, marches and acts of civil disobedience. Most of them have been
meant to express impatience with the Obama administration and Congress for
postponing long-discussed change to the nation's immigration system.

In three separate protests over the past three weeks, a total of 109 activists
have been arrested for blocking traffic in front of Federal Plaza in Lower
Manhattan, where the government's immigration agencies have their New York
offices.

''What you're seeing is definitely a pivot in the way that immigrants are
expressing their anger,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive director of the New
York Immigration Coalition, an umbrella advocacy group. ''Immigrants feel they
have to express their anger and their demand for justice in more dramatic ways
than in the past.''

After a morning news conference in Battery Park, many of the fasters took a
ferry to the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island. Most intend to spend the
remainder of the fast at Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village. Among them
was Adela Valdez, 39, an illegal immigrant from Mexico and a community activist,
who said that fasting was just one of many tools that demonstrators have to
employ to compel lawmakers to take action.

''We have to use all our resources,'' she said.

On May 10, Oswaldo Cabrera, an Ecuadorean immigrant, began a hunger strike at a
Lutheran church in East Harlem to push for changes to the immigration system and
to protest a new law in Arizona that gives police departments broad power to
make immigration checks. Mr. Cabrera has since shifted his fast to a church in
Fairview, N.J., and he plans to travel to Washington at the end of the month to
continue his campaign.

On Tuesday, a group of 10 young illegal immigrants, several of them students,
began a hunger strike on the sidewalk outside the offices of Senator Charles E.
Schumer in Midtown Manhattan. They are pressing Congress to pass the Dream Act,
a bill that would offer legal status to illegal immigrant students who were
brought to the United States as children. And they are focusing their effort on
Mr. Schumer, who as chairman of a Senate subcommittee on immigration wields
large influence over the passage of such legislation.

On Wednesday afternoon, the protesters were sitting on blankets near the
intersection of 47th Street and Third Avenue. Asked how long they intended to
continue their strike, Gabriel Martinez, 27, who recently graduated from John
Jay College of Criminal Justice and was serving as the group's spokesman, said,
''As long as we can hold.''

Division among lawmakers in Washington has stymied the Dream Act, with some
arguing that it should be handled as part of more comprehensive legislation and
others saying that it can be dealt with separately.

While the calls for an immigration overhaul have been building for several
years, they have accelerated since the passage of the Arizona law in April.
Related demonstrations have included an increasing number of illegal immigrants
who have shown the willingness to risk arrest and deportation by presenting
themselves publicly.

On May 17, five immigrants held a sit-in at the Tucson offices of Senator John
McCain, calling on him to support the Dream Act. Four were arrested on
misdemeanor trespassing charges; three of them were in the country illegally and
were expected to face deportation proceedings. Other civil disobedience has
taken place in Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle and
Washington.

On Tuesday, in the third protest in a weekly series, 56 people were arrested in
front of Federal Plaza after they linked arms, stepped into the middle of
Broadway and brought traffic to a halt.

Though none of those arrested were illegal immigrants, organizers said, some
demonstrators who were on the sidewalk supporting the action wore red-and-white
buttons that read, ''I'm an illegal immigrant.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rally participants at Battery Park on Wednesday at the start of
a three-day fast to press lawmakers to take action on immigration. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 4, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

White House Talk Lightens Tone Of Dispute on Immigration Law

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 345 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama and Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona have not been shy
in taking jabs at each other over immigration policy.

But their  meeting Thursday in the Oval Office appeared to change the tone -- if
not the substance -- of their dispute.

After the two met at the White House, at Ms. Brewer's request, she emerged to
announce that she and the president would ''work together to try to find a
solution'' on the immigration issue, including the dispute over Arizona's new
statute.

As a first step, officials said, the White House will send staff members to
Arizona.

The Arizona law requires the police to determine the immigration status of those
suspected of being in the country without proper documentation. Some critics
have likened it to racial profiling. Mr. Obama has called the measure misguided,
and he has asked the Justice Department to monitor enforcement of the law for
possible violations of civil rights.

Ms. Brewer said she felt more optimistic after the meeting, adding that Mr.
Obama had promised her that most of the 1,200 National Guard troops he is
sending to the border with Mexico would be deployed to Arizona.

''I'm encouraged that there's going to be much better dialogue between the
government and Arizona,'' Ms. Brewer  said after the meeting. ''I hope that's
not wishful thinking.''

She said that the president did not elaborate on his threat to file a lawsuit
against the Arizona law, instead telling her that the matter was in the hands of
the Justice Department.

Ms. Brewer said she would not make any commitment to support an overhaul of
immigration law until the border was secured.

Mr. Obama and Ms. Brewer, a Republican, have publicly disagreed over the state's
law. She sharply criticized him for joking about it at the White House
Correspondents Dinner, when he said that everyone knows that what happens in
Arizona when you don't have identification: ''Adios, amigos!''

Ms. Brewer was not amused. ''No one in Arizona is laughing,'' she said later in
a videotaped message. ''Do your job and secure the border.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Jan Brewer after her meeting with President Obama.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES DHARAPAK/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Cuomo Says 3 Companies Deceived Haitians in New York Seeking Help After Disaster

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 895 words


In his latest salvo against immigration fraud, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo
announced on Tuesday that he had filed lawsuits accusing several companies of
preying on the Haitian population in New York by fraudulently offering
immigration services following the earthquake that devastated Port-au-Prince.

The lawsuits accuse three companies, all based in Brooklyn, of unlawfully
providing legal advice and services to Haitian immigrants even though their
owners and employees were not lawyers and were therefore forbidden from
representing anyone before immigration authorities, Mr. Cuomo said in a news
release (see also Creole version).

In addition, the lawsuits accuse the companies of charging  thousands of dollars
to process immigration forms that could have been filed free or for a nominal
sum.

''In light of the recent devastating earthquake in Port-au-Prince, New York's
Haitian residents have sadly been a target for immigration scams, bringing
further pain to a community that has already suffered so much,'' Mr. Cuomo said,
according to the written statement.

One of the companies sued is Rincher's Multi-Service (see complaint), which is
owned by Deslande Rincher, a fixture in the Haitian community in Brooklyn.

A message left at the office of Mr. Rincher was not returned, though the
receptionist, who did not identify herself, said, ''You'll write that he has
been helping the community and hasn't done anything wrong, won't you?''

The other two companies named in the lawsuits, filed in State Supreme Court in
Manhattan, are Chay Pa Lou Community Center Inc. (see complaint) and Delegue Tax
Consultant Inc., both operated by Jean Michel from an address in Flatbush. A
woman who answered the phone said Mr. Michel was not available for comment and
added that Chay Pa Lou  no longer existed.

Mr. Cuomo is seeking to shut down the companies and to get restitution for the
victims. His office has already obtained a court order against Chay Pa Lou
Community Center to  freeze its assets and stop it from destroying documents.

Mr. Michel and his companies are accused of illegally processing 114 immigration
applications, while Mr. Rincher and his companies are accused of illegally
processing 22, a spokesman in the attorney general's office said.

Mr. Cuomo said his investigation into these companies began after the Obama
administration  began offering special immigration status to Haitians living
illegally in the United States. The new designation, called temporary protected
status and announced on Jan. 15, three days after the earthquake, protects such
immigrants from deportation for 18 months and allows them to work. The status is
offered from time to time to immigrants who are unable to return safely to their
home countries because of armed conflict or natural disasters.

The attorney general's office received complaints that Haitian immigrants were
being offered legal help ''at exorbitant prices'' by companies not qualified or
authorized to do so, Mr. Cuomo said in the statement.

The investigation revealed that these companies were charging immigrants, some
of whom were not even eligible to stay in the country, a processing fee for
submitting the temporary protected status applications even though the
individuals could have applied themselves for a nominal fee or free through a
special waiver. In addition, Mr. Cuomo said, some  immigrants never received the
services they paid for.

In an interview on Tuesday, one victim, who requested anonymity  but is
cooperating with Mr. Cuomo's office, said she had sought help from Chay Pa Lou
to file for temporary protected status. She was charged $1,300, she said, though
she never received anything in return.

When she demanded her money back, she was rebuffed, she said, so a friend of
hers filed a complaint with the attorney general's office.

Immigration fraud, often orchestrated by immigrants, has proliferated across the
country and in New York, victimizing people desperate to gain legal residency or
citizenship. Law enforcement officials say such schemes are particularly
difficult to uncover and prosecute because many victims are in the country
illegally and are hesitant to seek help from the authorities for fear of
deportation.

Under state and federal law, only lawyers or representatives accredited by the
Justice Department can represent people before the immigration authorities, Mr.
Cuomo's office said. Anyone providing immigration services must also comply with
strict rules governing contracts and advertising.

In addition, it is illegal for nonprofit immigrant service providers to charge
excessive fees for services, Mr. Cuomo said; the services must be provided free
or at a nominal rate. Chay Pa Lou Community Center was a nonprofit agency, the
attorney general's office said.

''We welcome our growing Haitian community to New York, many of whom have been
displaced by a horrible and unspeakable tragedy,'' said Chung-Wha Hong,
executive director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an advocacy group.
''For any individual or group to try to scam these families who are trying to
rebuild their lives is akin to another atrocity.''

An earlier version of this article included outdated figures on the number of
offenses alleged by the attorney general's office.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justice Dept. Will Fight Arizona on Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and MARK LANDLER; Jennifer Steinhauer contributed
reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1352 words


The Obama administration has decided to file a lawsuit to strike down a new
Arizona law aimed at deporting illegal immigrants, thrusting itself into the
fierce national debate over how the United States should enforce immigration
policies.

The federal government only occasionally intervenes forcefully in a state's
affairs, and it carries significant political risks. With immigration continuing
to be a hot issue in political campaigns across the country, the Arizona law,
which grants the local police greater authority to check the legal status of
people they stop, has become a rallying cry for the Tea Party and other
conservative groups.

The lawsuit, though widely anticipated, was confirmed by an unexpected source:
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who answered a question about it from
an Ecuadorean TV journalist in an interview on June 8 that went all but
unnoticed until this week.

Noting that President Obama had publicly objected to the law, Mrs. Clinton said,
''The Justice Department, under his direction, will be bringing a lawsuit
against the act.''

A spokesman for the Justice Department said the matter was still under review,
but other senior administration officials, speaking on the condition of
anonymity, said a decision had indeed been made and only the details of the
legal filing were still being worked out.

These officials said several government agencies were being consulted over the
best approach to block the statute, which, barring any successful legal
challenges, takes effect July 29. At least five lawsuits have already been filed
in federal court, and civil rights groups have asked a federal judge to issue an
injunction while the cases are heard.

A State Department spokesman, Philip J. Crowley, said Mrs. Clinton's comments,
made during a visit to Ecuador's capital, Quito, were meant to answer deep
qualms about the law in Mexico and other Latin American countries. ''It is
important to recognize that this has resonated significantly beyond our
borders,'' Mr. Crowley said.

Still, in focusing on Arizona, the Obama administration is making a politically
risky calculation: the move could help repair America's image south of the
border but open the administration to charges that it is trampling state's
rights. And a legal battle could energize the right during an election year.

At home, polls show that a majority of Americans support the law, or at least
the idea of states more rigorously enforcing immigration laws. But Latino groups
and elected officials have denounced it as an affront to Hispanics. Several
large demonstrations, for and against the law, have been held in Phoenix and
other cities.

Legal action has been widely expected, given Mr. Obama's repeated statements
against it, as well as the concerns that Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. has
voiced in interviews and news conferences.

In late May, Justice Department lawyers traveled to Phoenix to speak with
lawyers from the offices of the state attorney general, Terry Goddard, and Gov.
Jan Brewer about the possibility of litigation. Mr. Goddard, who is seeking the
Democratic nomination for governor, and Ms. Brewer, a Republican who is running
for the office for the first time (Ms. Brewer succeeded former Gov. Janet
Napolitano when Ms. Napolitano joined the Obama administration), both say a
federal lawsuit is unwarranted.

In a side drama, Mr. Goddard on Friday took his office off the case, bowing to
the wishes of Ms. Brewer, who had said his opposition to the law would make it
difficult for him to defend it. Mr. Goddard said his decision had nothing to do
with the Justice Department's plans.

Mrs. Clinton's disclosure -- which came to light after her interview was posted
by a political blog, therightscoop.com -- quickly became fodder for political
campaigns in Arizona. Republicans, led by Ms. Brewer, seized on the notion of a
domestic policy decision's being disclosed on foreign soil.

''This is no way to treat the people of Arizona,'' the governor said in a
statement. ''To learn of this lawsuit through an Ecuadorean interview with the
secretary of state is just outrageous. If our own government intends to sue our
state to prevent illegal immigration enforcement, the least it can do is inform
us before it informs the citizens of another nation.''

The federal government from time to time has successfully brought claims against
laws it deemed discriminatory or infringing on voter rights. It also has a
history of suing states on issues related to prison conditions and school
desegregation, said Erwin Chemerinsky, a constitutional scholar at the law
school at the University of California, Irvine.

While Arizona's law has drawn opposition from those who worry that
Hispanic-Americans and legal residents will be mistaken for illegal immigrants,
legal scholars say the case will more likely to turn on whether it intrudes on
federal immigration authority.

In 2007, the Bush administration successfully sued Illinois after it passed a
law barring employers from using a federal electronic system to verify the
immigration status of would-be employees.

Racial profiling claims may be difficult to prove. The United States Supreme
Court, in a 1975 case, ruled that immigration officers can include racial or
ethnic identity among factors in deciding whether to check someone's right to be
in the country.

Still, the federal government could argue that the law, in effect, gives one
state more regulatory power in immigration than another and raises thorny
diplomatic problems abroad, said Jack Chin, a University of Arizona law
professor.

The theory of this law, he said, is that Arizona is ''borrowing federal
regulatory authority to help carry out federal policy.'' But he said, ''If the
federal government comes in and says you are interfering, I think that is going
to be a problem for the state.''

Though not a legal issue, administration officials said the law, passed in
April, has tarnished America's image in Latin America. They point to a new poll
conducted by the Pew Research Center, which found that only 44 percent of
Mexicans viewed the United States favorably after Arizona enacted the law,
compared with 62 percent before that.

On a four-day trip last week to Colombia, Ecuador and Peru, Mrs. Clinton was
asked about the law at every stop. When she sat down with reporters from two
local TV channels in Quito last week, it was the subject of the first question
from both. One reporter suggested that the law might encourage violence against
those suspected of being illegal immigrants.

Mrs. Clinton said that the administration was committed to changing immigration
policy and that Mr. Obama had spoken out because he felt the law infringed on
federal authority. Speaking to the NTN channel, she said flatly that he would
challenge it.

Administration officials traveling with Mrs. Clinton did not immediately
recognize she had made news. The process was slowed further because the State
Department did not publish a transcript of her remarks until June 11, two days
later, because of technical glitches.

While the crossed wires left people at the Justice Department shaking their
heads, Mrs. Clinton's aides were unapologetic. The State Department had urged
the Justice Department to announce the suit earlier this week, so Mrs. Clinton
would not steal her colleagues' thunder, one official said.

And, as Mr. Crowley, the spokesman, pointed out, ''There is clearly an
international aspect to this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 25, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Reform Team

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 360 words


Mayor Michael Bloomberg, making good on an inaugural pledge, has stepped up to
help lead the national battle for immigration reform. On Thursday, he announced
a partnership of mayors and business leaders to make the economic case for
reform, including mayors of Los Angeles, Philadelphia, San Antonio, Phoenix, and
top executives of companies like Walt Disney, Hewlett-Packard, Boeing and the
New York Mets.

Rupert Murdoch --  chairman of the News Corporation, naturalized citizen and
member of the coalition --  stated its views succinctly: ''This country can and
must enact new immigration policies that fulfill our employment needs, provide a
careful pathway to legal status for undocumented residents, and end illegal
immigration.''

Mr. Bloomberg was even blunter in making the case for reforming immigration
policy, in which restrictive laws, stifling bureaucracy and aggressive
enforcement have closed the path to green cards or citizenship for millions of
hopeful entrepreneurs, workers and other would-be Americans. He called it
''national suicide.''

Theirs is the capsule version of the argument for comprehensive legislation that
the country has needed for years but that has failed in Congress for years.

Hopes for passage this year are quite dim, but the argument still needs to be
made. If anyone can make it, it's the mayor of New York City, which is at the
heart of America's immigrant story.

Mr. Bloomberg and his partners recognize that people who are dynamic,
hard-working, entrepreneurial, innovative and creative are the kinds of people
any city, or country, should want. More green cards mean more start-up companies
and jobs.

(The mayor's strong case would be even stronger if he weren't trying to
eliminate some legal services and English classes for immigrants. A tiny city
program, Immigrant Opportunities Initiative, saw its budget halved to $5 million
in fiscal 2010, and then zeroed out in the mayor's 2011 budget. He should find
the money.)

The unfortunate side of Mr. Bloomberg's welcome entry into the immigration
debate is that it is necessary at all. The White House and Congress should be
stepping up to the issue.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                         The New York Times on the Web

Asylum Law Offers Little Refuge for Those Who Flee Gangs

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg.

LENGTH: 1292 words


One man is dead, shot in the mouth by a gunman in El Salvador, presumably for
speaking ill of a gang. Another man lives in hiding in the Salvadoran
countryside, hoping his former gang will not mete out a similar punishment to
him.

Both men had once fled to the United States, where they sought asylum, saying
they faced mortal threats from street gangs in El Salvador. In recent years the
immigration courts have seen a surge of thousands of such gang-related claims
from Central Americans. They have rarely been granted.

But the cases of the two Salvadorans, Benito Zaldivar, who was killed, and
Nelson Benitez Ramos, have added new credibility to those claims. They have
increased the pressure on the courts and the Obama administration to clarify the
terms of asylum law so that foreigners facing life-threatening dangers from
gangs would have a chance at refuge in this country.

Immigration judges have rejected asylum for people running from Central American
gangs on the grounds that the threats were vague and that the petitioners' lives
did not appear to be truly at risk.

In Mr. Zaldivar's case, the Board of Immigration Appeals found that he had
failed to show that the gang he feared, Mara-18, was specifically coming after
him. Mr. Zaldivar ''indicated that the gang members threatened to hurt his
family if he did not join,'' the judges wrote, ''but neither the respondent nor
anyone in his family has ever been harmed.''

Mr. Zaldivar was deported to El Salvador in December after his asylum petition
failed. His murder just two months later was  the proof he foretold that his
fears of the gang were not exaggerated.

''I've done about a hundred cases of Salvadoran males who refused to join
gangs,'' said Roy Petty, an immigration lawyer in Missouri who represented Mr.
Zaldivar. ''I have to tell them you are probably going to lose. The immigration
system did not believe these people were really in danger.''

As a boy, Mr. Zaldivar said in an immigration court statement, he was left with
grandparents in La Libertad, a town on the coast of El Salvador, when his
parents came in 1994 to work in the United States. Mr. Zaldivar said the Mara-18
gang had started trying to recruit him when he was not yet a teenager.

The gang was more aggressive with him than with his friends, Mr. Zaldivar
declared in the statement. ''I think it was because the gang members knew I
didn't have a big family to take care of me,'' he said.

Then his grandmother died. In 2003, when he was 15, Mr. Zaldivar decided he
could no longer safely resist the gang, and he fled El Salvador to join his
parents, legal immigrants living in Carthage, Mo. Their temporary immigration
status did not allow them to bring their son through legal channels, and Mr.
Zaldivar was caught by border agents when he crossed into the United States
illegally. He applied for asylum, saying that if he returned to El Salvador, the
Mara-18 would exact revenge for his refusal to join.

As the case proceeded, he was permitted to rejoin his parents. ''I'm going to
high school in Carthage,'' he informed the court at one point, ''and I feel safe
for the first time in my life.''

On Feb. 28, eight weeks after he was deported, a white van pulled alongside Mr.
Zaldivar as he rode his bicycle through La Libertad. According to sworn
statements in court documents, several witnesses saw a Mara-18 gunman shoot him
in the face, which they understood as revenge for speaking against the gang.

Mr. Zaldivar's father, Carlos, said in an interview that entreaties from a
daughter still living in El Salvador had persuaded him not to return for his
son's funeral. ''It left me with an empty place,'' Carlos Zaldivar said in
anguish. ''But she said the gangs could blow me away, too.''

In general, legal standards for asylum in the United States are not easy to
meet. Asylum seekers must show they have a ''well-founded fear of persecution''
because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or ''membership
in a particular social group.'' Congress keeps a tight lid on the number of
refugees admitted, with the limit currently set at 80,000 a year. As the
immigration debate becomes increasingly polarized, there is little interest
among politicians or the public in raising that limit.

While the civil wars of Central America subsided by the 1990s, the number of
people seeking refuge from criminal gangs there has soared in the last decade as
the maras, as they are known in Spanish, have extended their violent networks
across the region. In many cities the gangs have become more powerful than the
police.

''To put it bluntly, Central America is the most violent region of the world,
with the exception of those regions where some countries are at war or are
experiencing severe political violence,'' the United Nations Development Program
concluded in a report in October that studied homicide rates across the globe.
The bloodshed in Central American came primarily from criminal gangs.

At the same time, American immigration judges, always careful not to open the
asylum door to any flood, have made it more difficult for Central Americans
running from gangs. In a landmark ruling in 2008, the Board of Immigration
Appeals denied a petition by three Salvadoran teenagers who fled recruitment by
a gang called the MS-13, saying they had not shown that they were in more peril
than Salvadorans in general.

''Gang violence and crime in El Salvador appear to be widespread, and the risk
of harm is not limited to young males who have resisted recruitment,'' the board
found. The judges created several legal hurdles for asylum seekers fleeing
gangs, requiring them to prove that they are part of a ''particular social
group'' that is widely recognized in their home society as being under attack,
something like a persecuted ethnic minority.

''The law has been kind of ripped apart,'' said Deborah Anker, a law professor
and director of the Immigration and Refugee Clinical Program at Harvard.
''Requirements have been imposed that make no sense in terms of prior
jurisprudence and are impossible to interpret.''

Some federal appeals courts have taken the same view. Judge Richard A. Posner of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in Chicago has
repeatedly rejected the new standards as ''illogical'' and ''perverse.''

In March, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. formally declined to step in to
clarify the administration's position. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, offered a refugee bill in
March that would erase the recent court decisions and return to a less
complicated standard that some people escaping gangs could hope to meet. But the
bill is not advancing, with Congress focused on other issues.

So Mr. Benitez waits in El Salvador, after being deported last year. Recruited
by the MS-18 gang when he was 14, Mr. Benitez quit after nine years when he
became an evangelical Christian, and he fled to join other Christian relatives
in the United States.

In December, the Seventh Circuit Court, in a decision written by Judge Posner,
rejected the immigration court's finding that Mr. Benitez's fears did not meet
the asylum test and granted his request.

But he remains in El Salvador, while his lawyer, Mr. Petty, negotiates with
immigration authorities to allow him to come back to the United States. With an
indigo MS-13 tattoo still etched on his forehead, he is literally a marked man.
In a telephone interview last week, he said he was staying with relatives,
skipping from house to house, rarely venturing outside.

''There are gangs everywhere here,'' Mr. Benitez said. ''When you leave the
gangs, even your best friend will murder you.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 30, 2010 Wednesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

On Gangs, Asylum Law Offers Little

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1381 words


One man is dead, shot in the mouth  in El Salvador, presumably for speaking ill
of a gang. Another man lives in hiding in the Salvadoran countryside, hoping his
former gang will not mete out a similar punishment to him.

Both men had once fled to the United States, where they sought asylum, saying
they faced mortal threats from street gangs in El Salvador. In recent years the
immigration courts have seen a surge of thousands of such gang-related claims
from Central Americans. They have rarely been granted.

But the cases of these two Salvadorans, Benito Zaldivar, who was killed, and
Nelson Benitez Ramos, have added new credibility to those claims. They have
increased the pressure on the courts and the Obama administration to clarify
asylum law so foreigners facing life-threatening dangers from gangs would have a
chance at refuge in this country.

Immigration judges have rejected asylum for people running from Central American
gangs on the grounds that the threats were vague and that the petitioners' lives
did not appear to be truly at risk.

In Mr. Zaldivar's case, the Board of Immigration Appeals found that he had
failed to show that the gang he feared, Mara-18, was specifically coming after
him. Mr. Zaldivar ''indicated that the gang members threatened to hurt his
family if he did not join,'' the judges wrote, ''but neither the respondent nor
anyone in his family has ever been harmed.''

Mr. Zaldivar was deported to El Salvador in December after his asylum petition
failed. His murder just two months later was  the proof he foretold that his
fears of the gang were not exaggerated.

''I've done about a hundred cases of Salvadoran males who refused to join
gangs,'' said Roy Petty, an immigration lawyer in Missouri who represented Mr.
Zaldivar. ''I have to tell them you are probably going to lose. The immigration
system did not believe these people were really in danger.''

As a boy, Mr. Zaldivar said in an immigration court statement, he was left with
grandparents in La Libertad, a town on the coast of El Salvador, when his
parents came in 1994 to work in the United States. Mr. Zaldivar said the Mara-18
gang had started trying to recruit him when he was not yet a teenager.

The gang was more forceful with him than with his friends, Mr. Zaldivar declared
in the statement. ''I think it was because the gang members knew I didn't have a
big family to take care of me,'' he said.

Then his grandmother died. In 2003, when he was 15, Mr. Zaldivar decided he
could no longer safely resist the gang, and he fled El Salvador to join his
parents, legal immigrants living in Carthage, Mo.

Their temporary immigration status did not allow them to bring their son through
legal channels, and Mr. Zaldivar was caught by border agents when he crossed
into the United States illegally. He applied for asylum, saying that if he
returned to El Salvador, the Mara-18 would exact revenge for his refusal to
join.

As the case proceeded, he was permitted to rejoin his parents. ''I'm going to
high school in Carthage,'' he informed the court at one point, ''and I feel safe
for the first time in my life.''

On Feb. 28, eight weeks after he was deported, a white van pulled alongside Mr.
Zaldivar as he rode his bicycle through La Libertad. According to sworn
statements in court documents, several witnesses saw a Mara-18 gunman shoot him
in the face, which they understood as revenge for speaking against the gang.

Mr. Zaldivar's father, Carlos, said in an interview that entreaties from a
daughter still living in El Salvador had persuaded him not to return for his
son's funeral. ''It left me with an empty place,'' Carlos Zaldivar said in
anguish. ''But she said the gangs could blow me away, too.''

In general, legal standards for asylum in the United States are not easy to
meet. Asylum seekers must show they have a ''well-founded fear of persecution''
because of their race, religion, nationality, political opinion or ''membership
in a particular social group.'' In 2009, a total of 9,614 foreigners were
granted asylum, according to official figures. Guatemala, the Central American
country with the highest number of successful petitions, had 265 grants. As the
immigration debate becomes increasingly polarized, there is little interest
among politicians or the public in seeing the asylum numbers increase.

While the civil wars of Central America subsided by the 1990s, the number of
people seeking refuge from criminal gangs there has soared in the last decade as
the maras, as they are known in Spanish, have extended their violent networks
across the region. In many cities the gangs have become more powerful than the
police.

''To put it bluntly, Central America is the most violent region of the world,
with the exception of those regions where some countries are at war or are
experiencing severe political violence,'' the United Nations Development Program
concluded in a report in October that studied homicide rates across the globe.
The bloodshed in Central American came primarily from criminal gangs.

At the same time, American immigration judges, always careful not to open the
asylum door to any flood, have made it more difficult for Central Americans
running from gangs. In a landmark ruling in 2008, the Board of Immigration
Appeals denied a petition by three Salvadoran teenagers who fled recruitment by
a gang called the MS-13, saying they had not shown that they were in more peril
than Salvadorans in general.

''Gang violence and crime in El Salvador appear to be widespread, and the risk
of harm is not limited to young males who have resisted recruitment,'' the board
found.

The judges created several legal hurdles for asylum seekers fleeing gangs,
requiring them to prove that they are part of a ''particular social group'' that
is widely recognized in their home society as being under attack, something like
a persecuted ethnic minority.

''The law has been kind of ripped apart,'' said Deborah Anker, a law professor
and director of the Immigration and Refugee Clinical Program at Harvard.
''Requirements have been imposed that make no sense in terms of prior
jurisprudence and are impossible to interpret.''

Some federal appeals courts have taken the same view. Judge Richard A. Posner of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, has
repeatedly rejected the new standards as ''illogical'' and ''perverse.''

In March, Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. formally declined to step in to
clarify the administration's position. Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont
Democrat who is chairman of the Judiciary Committee, offered a refugee bill in
March that would erase the recent court decisions and return to a less
complicated standard that some people escaping gangs could hope to meet. But the
bill is not advancing, with Congress focused on other issues.

So Mr. Benitez waits in El Salvador, after being deported last year. Recruited
by the MS-18 gang when he was 14, Mr. Benitez quit after nine years when he
became an evangelical Christian, and he fled to join other Christian relatives
in the United States.

In December, the Seventh Circuit, in a decision written by Judge Posner,
rejected the immigration court's finding that Mr. Benitez's fears did not meet
the asylum test and granted his request.

But he remains in El Salvador, while his lawyer, Mr. Petty, negotiates with
immigration authorities to allow him to come back to the United States.

With an indigo MS-13 tattoo  etched on his forehead, he is literally a marked
man. In a telephone interview last week, he said he was staying with relatives,
skipping from house to house, rarely venturing outside.

''There are gangs everywhere here,'' Mr. Benitez said. ''When you leave the
gangs, even your best friend will murder you.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.


URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE:  June 29, 2010, Tuesday



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
An earlier version of this article included a reference to the annual limit of
80,000 on the number of refugees admitted from abroad to the United States.
Foreigners seeking asylum, which is granted to people who are already in this
country, are not included in the refugee limit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Carlos Zaldivar at home in Carthage, Mo., with a picture of his
son Benito, who was killed by gang members after being deported to El Salvador.
Carlos Zaldivar was able to witness his son's burial only by a video mailed to
him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Exhorts Congress to Back Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 945 words


WASHINGTON -- President Obama pressed Congress on Thursday to adopt a sweeping
plan to fix a ''fundamentally broken'' immigration system, taking on a volatile
issue that has inflamed passions in a weak economy heading into the fall midterm
campaign.

In his first speech devoted entirely to immigration policy since taking office,
Mr. Obama tried to navigate between what he called the two extremes of the
debate, defending his efforts to strengthen border security while promoting a
path to citizenship for many of the 11 million people in the United States
illegally.

The president's decision to elevate the issue reflected more of a political
strategy than a legislative one since the White House has no plan to actually
push a bill this year through a Congress already consumed by other issues.
Instead, Mr. Obama's focus appeared intended to frame the debate for the
approaching election to appeal to Hispanic voters who could be critical in
several states as well as other middle-class voters turned off by anti-immigrant
discourse  while blaming Republicans for opposing a comprehensive overhaul.

''I'm ready to move forward, the majority of Democrats are ready to move
forward, and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward,'' he
told an audience of lawmakers, advocates, business executives and labor leaders
at American University here. ''But the fact is, without bipartisan support, as
we had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this problem.''

Republicans fired back, casting Mr. Obama's speech as cynical demagoguery and
arguing that the real problem is an administration that does not do enough to
enforce laws already on the books. Moreover, they said, with 15 million
Americans now unemployed, this is the wrong time to loosen the rules on the
estimated 8 million illegal immigrants currently in the workforce.

''We could cut unemployment in half simply by reclaiming the jobs taken by
illegal workers,'' said Representative Lamar Smith of Texas, co-chairman of the
Reclaim American Jobs Caucus. ''President Obama is on the wrong side of the
American people on immigration. The president should support policies that help
citizens and legal immigrants find the jobs they need and deserve, rather than
fail to enforce immigration laws.''

The immigration debate has flared in recent weeks with the passage of a new law
in Arizona requiring police to question the immigration status of anyone they
stop for other reasons if they suspect they are in the country illegally. About
20 other states are considering similar laws while the Justice Department is
preparing a lawsuit to challenge the Arizona measure.

The White House has been under pressure to tackle an overhaul of immigration
policy this year on the assumption that it could face a more hostile Congress
after the November election. The president met separately this week with
immigration advocates and with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

His attention to the issue was also a favor to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the
Democratic leader, who promised to pursue legislation as he battles for
re-election in a state with a rising Hispanic population. Mr. Obama invited Mr.
Reid to meet at the White House after Thursday's speech.

The president drew praise from Mr. Reid and groups like the American Civil
Liberties Union and the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. ''But a
speech alone is not enough,'' said Janet Murguia, president of the National
Council of La Raza, a Latino civil rights group, ''and it will not make a
difference if the president does not follow through and push both parties in
Congress to move a bill forward.''

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, questioned Mr. Obama's commitment. ''I
haven't seen anything to demonstrate that he's used any political capital or
made this a priority,'' he told reporters. A midday speech ''without any
specific proposals but just an exhortation that things are not good and need to
be fixed I don't think is showing leadership.''

In his address, Mr. Obama repeated his support for an approach like that
proposed by Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey
Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

Under their plan, illegal immigrants who wish to remain in the country would be
required to admit they broke the law and pay fines and back taxes, pass
background checks and prove that they can speak English before going to the back
of the line of those seeking permanent legal residency. It would also strengthen
border security and interior enforcement, create a process for temporary workers
and require Social Security cards with biometric data like fingerprints or
retinal patterns to help ensure that illegal workers cannot get jobs.

The president rejected the most dramatic solutions to illegal migration. Mass
deportations would be ''logistically impossible and wildly expensive,'' he said,
but blanket amnesty was ''unwise and unfair'' to those who played by the rules.

''In sum, the system is broken and everybody knows it,'' Mr. Obama said.
''Unfortunately, reform has been held hostage to political posturing,
special-interest wrangling and to the pervasive sentiment in Washington that
tackling such a thorny and emotional issue is inherently bad politics.''

He also used the opportunity to repeat his opposition to Arizona's new law.
Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona, the Republican minority whip, said the state's law
was a response to Washington's failure to deal with the problem. ''All Americans
would be better served,'' he said, ''if this administration focused on
implementing proven border security solutions rather than engaging in
demagoguery.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama spoke about immigration on Thursday in
Washington. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Militia With Neo-Nazi Ties Patrols the Arizona Desert

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 440 words


PHOENIX (AP) -- Minutemen groups, a surge in Border Patrol agents and a tough
new immigration law are not enough for a reputed neo-Nazi who is now leading a
militia in the Arizona desert.

Jason Ready is taking matters into his own hands, declaring war on what he calls
''narco-terrorists'' and keeping an eye out for illegal immigrants. So far, he
said, his patrols have found only a few border crossers, who were given water
and handed over to the Border Patrol. Once, they found a decaying body in a
wash, and alerted the authorities.

But local law enforcement officials are worried, given that Mr. Ready's group is
heavily armed and identifies with the National Socialist Movement, an
organization that believes that only non-Jewish, white heterosexual people
should be American citizens and that everyone who is not white should leave the
country -- ''peacefully or by force.''

''We're not going to sit around and wait for the government anymore,'' Mr. Ready
said. ''This is what our founding fathers did.''

An escalation of civilian border watches has taken root in Arizona in recent
years. Various groups patrol the desert and report suspicious activity to the
Border Patrol, and generally they have not caused problems.

But Mr. Ready, a 37-year-old ex-Marine, is different. He and his friends are
outfitted with military fatigues, body armor and assault rifles. Mr. Ready takes
offense at the term ''neo-Nazi,'' but admits he identifies with the National
Socialist Movement.

''These are explicit Nazis,'' said Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law
Center's Intelligence Project. ''These are people who wear swastikas on their
sleeves.''

Mr. Ready is a reflection of the anger over illegal immigration in Arizona. Gov.
Jan Brewer signed a new immigration law in April that requires police officers,
while enforcing other laws, to question a person's immigration status if
officers have a reasonable suspicion that the person is in the country
illegally.

Sheriff Paul Babeu of Pinal County said there had not been any episodes with the
group in his jurisdiction. But he said he was concerned because an untrained
group acting without the authority of the law could cause ''extreme problems''
and put itself and others in danger.

''I'm not inviting them. And in fact, I'd rather they not come,'' Sheriff Babeu
said. ''Especially those who espouse hatred or bigotry such as his,'' he said of
Mr. Ready.

Mr. Ready said he is planning patrols throughout the summer.

''If they don't want my people out there, then there's an easy way to send us
home: secure the border,'' he said. ''We'll put our guns back on the shelf, and
that'll be the end of that.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Wins Unlikely Allies In Immigration

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words


At a time when the prospects for immigration overhaul seem most dim, supporters
have unleashed a secret weapon: a group of influential evangelical Christian
leaders.

Normally on the opposite side of political issues backed by the Obama White
House, these leaders are aligning with the president to support an overhaul that
would include some path to legalization for illegal immigrants already here.
They are preaching from pulpits, conducting conference calls with pastors and
testifying in Washington -- as they did last Wednesday.

''I am a Christian and I am a conservative and I am a Republican, in that
order,'' said Matthew D. Staver, founder and chairman of Liberty Counsel, a
conservative religious law firm. ''There is very little I agree with regarding
President Barack Obama. On the other hand, I'm not going to let politicized
rhetoric or party affiliation trump my values, and if he's right on this issue,
I will support him on this issue.''

When President Obama gave a major address pushing immigration overhaul this
month, he was introduced by a prominent evangelical, the Rev. Bill Hybels of
Willow Creek Community Church in Illinois. Three other evangelical pastors were
in the audience, front and center.

Their presence was a testament, in part, to the work of politically active
Hispanic evangelical pastors, who have forged friendships with non-Hispanic
pastors in recent years while working in coalitions to oppose abortion and
same-sex marriage. The Hispanics made a concerted effort to convince their
brethren that immigration reform should be a moral and practical priority.

Hispanic storefront churches are popping up in strip malls, and Spanish-speaking
congregations are renting space in other churches. Some pastors, like Mr.
Hybels, lead churches that include growing numbers of Hispanics. Several
evangelical leaders said they were convinced that Hispanics are the key to
growth not only for the evangelical movement, but also for the social
conservative movement.

''Hispanics are religious, family-oriented, pro-life, entrepreneurial,'' said
the Rev. Richard D. Land, president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty
Commission, the Southern Baptist Convention's public policy arm. ''They are
hard-wired social conservatives, unless they're driven away.

''I've had some older conservative leaders say: 'Richard, stop this. You're
going to split the conservative coalition,' '' Dr. Land continued. ''I say it
might split the old conservative coalition, but it won't split the new one. And
if the new one is going to be a governing coalition, it's going to have to have
a lot of Hispanics in it. And you don't get a lot of Hispanics in your coalition
by engaging in anti-Hispanic anti-immigration rhetoric.''

Congress is unlikely to pass an immigration law this year. Republicans and
Democrats who face re-election in November are skittish about the issue, given
the broad public support for Arizona's new law aiming to crack down on illegal
immigration.

The support of evangelical leaders is not yet enough to change the equation. But
they could mobilize a potentially large constituency of religious conservatives,
an important part of the Republican base better known for lobbying against
abortion and same-sex marriage. They already threaten the party's near unity on
immigration.

''These cross-cutting clusters are just splinter groups, so far,'' said Larry J.
Sabato, director of the Center for Politics at the University of Virginia.
''Support for the Arizona law is so strong within the G.O.P. that it will be
difficult for the comprehensive-immigration-reform evangelicals to have much
short-term impact.''

But some evangelical leaders said their latest strategy was to push a handful of
lame-duck Republicans to join Democrats -- probably after the midterms -- to
pass an immigration bill on the ground that it is morally right.

Although other religious leaders have long favored immigration overhaul --
including Roman Catholics, mainline Protestants, Jews and Muslims -- the
evangelicals are crucial because they have the relationships and the pull with
Republicans.

''My message to Republican leaders,'' said the Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, the
president of the evangelical National Hispanic Christian Leadership Conference
and one of the leaders who engaged his non-Hispanic peers, ''is if you're
anti-immigration reform, you're anti-Latino, and if you're anti-Latino, you are
anti-Christian church in America, and you are anti-evangelical.''

About 70 percent of Hispanics in the United States are Catholic, but some 15
percent are evangelicals, and they are far more likely than the Catholics to
identify themselves as conservative and Republican.

Evangelicals at the grass-roots level are divided on immigration, just as the
nation is. But among the leaders, recent interviews suggest that those in favor
of an immigration overhaul are far more vocal and more organized than those who
oppose it.

Each side draws on Scripture for support. Those who oppose comprehensive
immigration overhaul cite Romans 13, which says to submit to the government's
laws. Supporters cite Leviticus 19: treat the stranger as you would yourself.

Both sides agree that security at the nation's borders needs to be strengthened.
The biggest point of contention is what to do about the estimated 12 million
illegal immigrants in the country.

Advocates of a comprehensive new immigration law want to establish a path to
citizenship that would allow illegal immigrants to register with the government,
pay a fine, undergo a background check, prove they can speak English and only
then get in line to apply for permanent legal residency. Those not interested in
permanent residency could become legal temporary workers.

Opponents call this approach amnesty. ''I think there's a need to reform the
system, but I don't support amnesty,'' said Jay Sekulow, chief counsel for the
American Center for Law and Justice, a conservative public interest law firm
that plans to file an amicus brief in support of Arizona's immigration law.

Bryan Fischer, director of issue analysis for the American Family Association, a
national conservative Christian organization in Tupelo, Miss., said, ''What my
evangelical friends are arguing is that illegal aliens should essentially be
rewarded for breaking the law.

''I think it's extremely problematic from a Judeo-Christian standpoint to grant
citizenship to people whose first act on American soil was to break an American
law,'' said Mr. Fischer, who hosts a daily radio show on which immigration is a
frequent topic.

Taking the lead for immigration overhaul is the National Association of
Evangelicals, an umbrella group that represents more than 40 denominations. Last
year the association passed a resolution calling for comprehensive immigration
overhaul, and this year reform is one of its top three policy priorities, along
with reducing abortions and studying the impact of climate change on the poor.
The association's president, the Rev. Leith Anderson, was in the front row for
Mr. Obama's address, along with Dr. Land and Mr. Rodriguez.

One of the more recent converts to overhaul is Mr. Staver. He said that
deporting illegal immigrants violated the biblical imperative to welcome the
stranger. ''We're going to break up families,'' Mr. Staver said, ''and I don't
see how you could claim to be pro-family and condone the separation of
families.''

(To which Mr. Fischer responded, ''We don't want to break up families, so let's
help them all return to their country of origin.'')

Mr. Staver was one of six evangelical leaders, including two prominent black
evangelicals, who issued a statement last month advocating a comprehensive new
law. One, J. Kenneth Blackwell, a Republican candidate for Ohio governor in 2006
and now a senior fellow at the Family Research Council, a conservative Christian
group, said he expected more evangelical leaders to come on board.

But Mr. Blackwell said the whole effort could implode if the final legislation
extended family reunification provisions to same-sex couples where one spouse
did not have legal status. For evangelicals, he said, ''That would be a
deal-breaker.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bryan Fischer of the American Family Association often discusses
immigration on his talk show. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES) (A13)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Those Already Deported, Court Rulings Come Too Late

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1472 words


Vincenzo Donnoli was 9 when his family immigrated legally to Brooklyn. He
attended Erasmus Hall High School, married and divorced in Flatbush, ran a
landscaping business and had five children. But at 51 he is back -- alone and
jobless -- in Pomarico, the hill town in southern Italy where his father was a
shepherd, as a deportee banned for life from returning to the United States.

His offense: two misdemeanor convictions for possessing small amounts of
cocaine, in 1988 and 2006, both guilty pleas resolved without jail time.
Retroactively, immigration authorities added them up to equal an ''aggravated
felony'' that required Mr. Donnoli's automatic deportation last year.

That kind of arithmetic, an aggressive government interpretation of 1996
immigration laws that has been increasingly invoked in recent years, was
rejected by the Supreme Court in a unanimous decision in June. But the ruling
came too late for Mr. Donnoli and thousands of deportees like him, all former
lawful residents who have no way to turn that legal vindication into a chance to
come home.

''The Supreme Court has said in a series of cases that the government's theories
of deportation have been wrong for years,'' said Daniel Kanstroom, a professor
at Boston College Law School, citing earlier decisions that rejected the
government's classification of other minor crimes as deportable offenses. ''And
yet the legal system has not developed a mechanism to right that wrong for the
thousands of people who have been wrongly deported.''

Under the ruling last month, which echoed decisions by four federal circuit
courts, including the one covering New York, legal residents with minor drug
convictions are eligible to have an immigration judge weigh their offenses
against other factors in their lives and decide whether to let them stay.

But deportees who were denied such a hearing have no means to get one now. The
Board of Immigration Appeals says it has no jurisdiction over any case after
deportation. Government regulations prohibit any motion to reopen the case of
someone who has left the country; judicial circuits are divided over that
interpretation of immigration law, and a request that the Supreme Court consider
the matter is pending.

The Obama administration, which is on track to deport a record 400,000 people
this fiscal year, according to government statistics, has shown no eagerness to
open the door. Now two dozen legal rights groups are calling for a process that
would let immigrants reopen their cases under the ruling last month.

''American principles of justice -- fairness, due process and discretion --
require that these immigrants now receive their day in court,'' the groups wrote
in a June 18 letter to Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. and Janet Napolitano,
the secretary of homeland security.

The Justice Department referred questions about the letter to the Department of
Homeland Security, where a spokesman, Matthew Chandler, declined to comment on
the issues it raised.

But Jan Ting, a Temple University Law School professor and a former assistant
immigration commissioner, called the idea of letting deportees return for
hearings ''far-fetched,'' adding, ''The federal government has already incurred
significant costs in executing the removals of these individuals in a procedure
that was certainly legal at the time.''

No one knows just how many cases could be affected, but analyses by state and
federal public defenders' associations suggest they could number several
thousand. More than 34,000 noncitizens were deported for drug-related offenses
in 2008; in New York alone, from 1995 to 2004 more than 258,000 citizens and
noncitizens served little or no jail time for misdemeanor possession
convictions.

Among the most compelling cases for redress, the advocates say, are those of New
Yorkers who were transferred by immigration officials to detention centers in
Louisiana and Texas. There, the detainees came under the jurisdiction of the
United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, which approved the
automatic deportations long after the Second Circuit, which includes New York,
had rejected them.

Simply identifying such deportees is a challenge. In a sample of a dozen
deportations involving New York misdemeanor drug convictions, culled by The New
York Times from a database of Board of Immigration Appeals decisions since 2007,
a reporter was able to reach only Mr. Donnoli and two others.

One, Seweryn P. Smieciuch, a 27-year-old bricklayer, is back in rural Poland,
which his family left for Greenpoint, Brooklyn, when he was 10. The other, Damon
Franklin Spence, 35, is homeless in Jamaica, which he left at 11.

''I have four kids in America,'' said Mr. Spence, who ran a sneaker store in
Hempstead, N.Y., before two convictions for possession of marijuana led to his
deportation last summer.

From a Texas detention center, Mr. Spence had petitioned the Supreme Court
himself before his deportation. He argued that if he was expelled while his
appeal was pending, he would be denied legal redress. Not true, replied the
government in a brief by Elena Kagan, the solicitor general who is a nominee for
the Supreme Court, which asserted that if he prevailed in his appeal, he could
return.

But he missed the 90-day window to keep his appeal alive, even as the Supreme
Court took up the same issue, because he did not receive notice when the Fifth
Circuit denied his appeal on Nov. 17. ''They don't give you a chance,'' he said.
''They move you around to try to lose you.''

Mr. Donnoli echoed the sentiment. ''I think I got railroaded,'' he said by
telephone from Pomarico, about 150 miles southeast of Naples. ''I'm in hell
here.''

To some, deportation to Italy at government expense might sound appealing. But
Mr. Donnoli, who had not returned since his 1968 emigration, spent 27 months as
a detainee fighting deportation, transferred from a New Jersey jail through a
series of detention centers in New Mexico and Texas. He missed his father's
funeral and the birth of his grandchild.

Deported last September, he was stranded, penniless, at the Milan airport until
an older brother in New Jersey found some cousins who sent him on to Pomarico.

The town had changed during his absence. ''They used to have mules; now they
have cars,'' he said. ''The mentality is the same. Over here there's no work,
there's no assistance.''

Mr. Donnoli is no paragon, but his oldest daughter, 21, filed papers for his
re-immigration under a waiver -- even though waivers are banned for drug
offenders. His last lawyer has suggested he turn instead to the Immigrant
Defense Project in New York.

In her row house in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, his mother, Michelina Donnoli, 83,
said she prayed daily for his return.

''I want to see him before God takes me,'' she said, weeping. She recalled how
unnecessary it had seemed to seek citizenship for herself and her five children,
all sponsored by her own mother, a seamstress who immigrated in the 1950s.

Such deportees have been caught in a time warp of American drug policy. In the
1970s, New York's tough narcotics laws spurred a nationwide trend toward
mandatory minimum sentences. Now drug treatment and judicial discretion are the
preferred approach to low-level offenders.

For legal immigrants, however, zero-tolerance policies have been magnified
retroactively: an old conviction punishable by a year or more in jail is grounds
for deportation, even if no such sentence was imposed.

The Polish bricklayer, Mr. Smieciuch, is an example. He and his brother, Artur,
said they had a difficult adjustment when his parents won the green card lottery
and moved them to Brooklyn in 1993, especially after their grandfather died and
their mother, a hotel worker, returned to Poland for a year. Mr. Smieciuch
(pronounced SHMAY-chewkh) began using drugs as a teenager, ''to suppress the
feelings, not to feel so sad,'' his brother said.

The arrest that led to Mr. Smieciuch's deportation occurred in 2006, when he was
23. The police stopped and frisked him, he said, and found a crack pipe with
drug residue. A court-appointed lawyer advised him to plead guilty, since he
would serve only two days in jail. But he was handed over to immigration agents
who labeled him an ''aggravated felon,'' based on two similar convictions on his
rap sheet, then transferred him to detention in Texas. In 2008, in deference to
the Fifth Circuit, the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld his deportation.

Now he is living an immigrant's life in Poland. Clean of drugs since his arrest,
he said, he married a co-worker in a meat-packing plant, has a newborn and is
building a house. Still, he hopes the Supreme Court ruling will open a path back
to the United States.

''I was more American than Polish,'' he said by telephone from Leszczanka, a
farming village 130 miles east of Warsaw. ''It wasn't fair.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seweryn Smieciuch, deported from the United States, with his
wife and son in Poland at the house of his mother-in-law, far right. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY PIOTR MALECKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Damon Spence, left, with photos of his children, who live in the United States.
Mr. Spence is homeless in Jamaica after his deportation. Vincenzo Donnoli is
back in Pomarico, Italy, after decades in the United States. He was 9 when his
family immigrated. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRITTANY SOMERSET FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CHRIS WARDE-JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Showdown in Arizona

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 610 words


The federal judge who ruled on Arizona's tragic, noxious new immigration law on
Wednesday did not stop all of it from taking effect Thursday, but she
preliminarily halted the worst of it. And although appeals are certain, Judge
Susan Bolton offered clear and well-reasoned arguments affirming the federal
government's final authority over immigration enforcement. We hope this is the
beginning of the end of the misbegotten Arizona rules and what they represent.

Judge Bolton explained basic points that those who support the Arizona law have
ignored or forgotten:

A state cannot require its police officers to demand the papers of people they
stop and suspect are illegal immigrants. As the judge wrote, the law places an
''unacceptable burden on lawfully present aliens.''

Arizona cannot require that every arrested person have his or her immigration
status checked, or that people be detained until they prove they are here
lawfully.

Arizona cannot make it a state crime for immigrants not to carry papers at all
times, or for an undocumented immigrant to look for work.

It cannot give officers the power to make warrantless arrests of anyone they
believe has committed a crime that makes them deportable. Deportation is a
matter to be decided by a judge in court, Judge Bolton wrote, not a state
trooper or sheriff's deputy in a traffic stop.

Arizona's law is not a case of a state helping the federal government do a job
it neglected. It is a radical upending of immigration priorities, part of a
spiteful crusade to force a mass exodus of illegal immigrants. Arizona still has
a governor, legislators and law officers determined to pursue immigration
enforcement at any cost. It has the country's most prolific immigrant-hunting
machinery, mostly because of the Maricopa County sheriff, who indiscriminately
raids Latino neighborhoods. With demonstrators converging on the state this
week, Arizona threatens to become a national fracturing point on immigration.
The Obama administration can do more than just watch. It can reassert the
importance of sensible national immigration policies.

The administration can start by rethinking two troubling programs -- Secure
Communities, which requires immigration checks for everyone booked into a jail,
and 287(g), in which local law-enforcement officials are deputized as
immigration agents in task forces and in jails.

The Obama administration has resisted calls to abolish the programs, despite
warnings of racial profiling, arrests on pretexts and other abuses. But there is
no excuse for not pulling the plug on Arizona's 287(g) programs, the largest in
the nation.

It should also listen to George Gascon, the police chief of San Francisco, who
was at the center of the immigration-enforcement debate as the police chief in
Mesa, Ariz. He believes public safety is jeopardized when officers waste time
chasing low-priority targets, and people in immigrant areas fear law
enforcement. He has suggested a pilot program in which Secure Communities would
restrict its focus to serious offenders. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
should have no problem with that; it says its highest priority is removing
''aliens who pose a danger to national security or a risk to public safety.''

Judge Bolton's ruling reminded us all of the unacceptable price of the Arizona
way: an incoherent immigration system, squandered law enforcement resources,
diminished public safety, the awful sight of a nation of immigrants turning on
itself. Mr. Obama took a big risk when he filed suit against the Arizona law,
and deserves credit for that. We hope he goes on to make clear to all the states
that the Arizona way is not the American way.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

In Colorado, Debate Over Program to Check Immigration History of the Arrested

BYLINE: By DAN FROSCH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 957 words


DENVER -- In September 2008, a Guatemalan immigrant named Francis Hernandez sped
his S.U.V. through a busy Aurora intersection and plowed into a pickup truck,
knocking it into an ice cream parlor.

Three people were killed, including a 3-year-old boy.

Mr. Hernandez, as it turned out, was in the country illegally and been arrested
more than a dozen times over the years, but had managed to elude deportation.

A task force recommended that Colorado institute a federal background check
program called Secure Communities, which helps the authorities check an arrested
person's immigration history through a government database, for possible
deportation.

Now, as Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. weighs whether to use Secure Communities, already
in effect in 480 jurisdictions in 27 states, immigrant rights groups have been
privately pushing him to reject the program. Critics say it promotes racial
profiling by the local police and would undermine trust between immigrants and
law enforcement, in a state that has particularly strict immigration laws.

''Secure Communities is an overbroad dragnet that will end up destroying
communities and families while driving victims and witnesses underground,'' said
Hans Meyer, policy coordinator for the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition.

But officials with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, the federal
agency that runs Secure Communities, says the program is shoring up a system
that has allowed illegal immigrants with criminal records to escape notice.

''It allows ICE and local law enforcement agencies to know as much as possible
about people in local custody without any additional costs or procedural changes
by local officers,'' said Richard Rocha, deputy press secretary for the agency.

Under Secure Communities, created in 2008, people arrested have their
fingerprints run through an immigration database, a process that takes only a
few hours and is swifter and more efficient than the old method of local law
enforcement making referrals to ICE. If they have had prior contact with
immigration authorities -- like having been previously deported, having been
detained or having applied for a work visa -- their names will appear in the
database and the authorities can place an immigration hold on them.

Congress has allotted $550 million to pay for the program so far, and Janet
Napolitano, the homeland security secretary, said she wants it available to
every law enforcement agency by 2013.

Nearly three million people have been screened since the program's debut in
Harris County, Texas, in October 2008, through June of this year.

Of those, 39,054 were identified as having committed violent crimes like rape,
murder and assault, and 9,831 have been deported. Of an additional 223,752
people who had committed less serious offenses, ranging from property crimes to
misdemeanors, 24,805 were deported.

Mr. Rocha says the priority is finding violent criminal illegal immigrants. But
critics say that most illegal immigrants identified by Secure Communities have
committed low-level offenses and that the program is like an immigration sweep.

Bridget Kessler, a teaching fellow at Benjamin N. Cardozo law school at Yeshiva
University in New York said the Obama administration was acting hypocritically
by pushing for Secure Communities.

''It seems that the administration is speaking out of both sides of its mouth:
standing strong to condemn state-imposed ICE and local partnerships in the
context of Arizona, and quietly but forcefully, and on a much larger scale,
promoting similar state-imposed ICE and local partnerships nationwide,'' Ms.
Kessler said.

Cheryl Little, executive director for the Florida Immigrant Advocacy Center in
Miami, said: ''ICE claims, as it has done for years, that it is targeting
dangerous criminals. Yet the program screens the fingerprints of anyone arrested
by local police, not just those convicted of crimes.''

Florida is one of three states that have carried out the program statewide
(Virginia and Delaware are the others).

Lt. Michael Lindsay, with the Harris County Sheriff's Office, said the program
was effectively ferreting out illegal immigrants. ''You're being deported for
being in the country illegally,'' Lieutenant Lindsay said. ''The crimes bring
them to our attention. And the more heinous the crimes just gets them a front
seat.''

Opinion on Secure Communities is divided among law enforcement in Colorado.

Keith Ikeda, the police chief of Basalt, a small mountain town with a sizable
Hispanic population, said, ''If we start talking about misdemeanor arrests and
traffic infractions, then I believe it erodes the public trust.''

But Lance Clem, a spokesman for the Colorado Bureau of Investigation, which
supports the program, predicted it would discourage racial profiling because
everyone is subject to the same background check.

There is also the issue of the program accidentally ensnaring victims of crimes,
particularly domestic violence, where the perpetrator can be unclear.

Domestic violence and immigrant rights' advocates in Colorado have said that
those arrested for domestic violence should not be subject to a Secure
Communities screening until they are convicted, and that the program should
exempt victims of crimes.

Mr. Ritter, a Democrat who is not seeking a second term, has not indicated
whether he will sign on for the program.

Lost in the debate over the issue is the fact that Secure Communities would not
have identified Mr. Hernandez, who was sentenced to 60 years in prison for
vehicular homicide, had it been operating at the time, according to ICE.

Because Mr. Hernandez came into the country as a child and used multiple aliases
to avoid deportation, ICE said, he was never referred to immigration officials
despite his many arrests.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

As Arizona Went, So Goes Virginia

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 399 words


Virginia has long had localized tensions over immigration: places like Prince
William County and towns like Herndon where influxes of day laborers and other
immigrant Latinos have been followed by police crackdowns, anti-solicitation
ordinances and laws empowering the police to check people's immigration status.

But now that Arizona has gone to unconstitutional extremes in its
anti-immigration campaign, Virginia's highest officials are trying to take their
whole state farther down that dark road.

Gov. Robert McDonnell and the attorney general, Ken Cuccinelli, both
Republicans, are leading the charge. Mr. McDonnell is pushing to expand the
authority of the state police to enforce federal immigration laws. Mr.
Cuccinelli -- who signed on to an amicus brief supporting Arizona's immigration
law -- recently said that Virginia's law enforcement officers may check the
immigration status of anyone they stop for any reason.

The opinion does not say such checks are required, which the American Civil
Liberties Union pointed out in a letter urging local police departments to
ignore it. The A.C.L.U. said the opinion cited no Virginia statute or any other
state's law, and was an invitation to racial profiling and equal-protection
violations by officers who should be doing what they were trained to do -- like
catching criminals.

Leave aside the question of how a police officer is supposed to tell whether a
person being questioned has committed a crime (crossing the border without
papers) or a civil violation (overstaying a legal visa) or is just an American
citizen without ID. A bigger question is why police departments would want to be
roped into immigration enforcement with every stop they make. A police officer's
job is not foreign policy or border control. It's community safety.

Police chiefs and officers across the country, particularly those who work along
the border, recognize that you can't easily protect a community that fears and
shuns you. To fight crime, law enforcement needs help. It needs willing
witnesses, and victims who tell the truth. It needs time and resources, which it
shouldn't waste chasing peaceable immigration violators and detaining
brown-skinned citizens.

In Virginia -- and in other states like Florida, where officials and candidates
have been aping Arizona -- creating a local dragnet for illegal immigrants is a
popular slogan. It is not a solution.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Bait and Switch

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 509 words


Secure Communities, an immigration enforcement program created under President
George W. Bush and now being greatly expanded by President Obama, is billed as
an effort to catch and deport ''the worst of the worst,'' the violent criminals,
drug and gun smugglers, gang members and other dangerous aliens. That would be
excellent, if true. It doesn't seem to be.

The Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, the Center for Constitutional Rights, a
public-interest legal organization, and the National Day Laborer Organizing
Network analyzed arrest and deportation statistics and other data on Secure
Communities they obtained through the Freedom of Information Act. The records,
covering the program from its inception in October 2008 through June 2010, lend
disturbing credence to fears voiced by immigrant advocates and some
law-enforcement officials.

The program requires agencies to automatically run fingerprints through federal
immigration databases for anyone they arrest. Critics warned that it would be an
indiscriminate dragnet -- ensnaring illegal immigrants without criminal records,
and encouraging racial profiling. Sheriff Michael Hennessey of San Francisco
objected to Secure Communities, saying it targeted too many noncriminals and
would have a dangerous ''chilling effect'' on the willingness of communities to
work with local law enforcement.

It turns out the critics were right.

The Immigration and Customs Enforcement records show that a vast majority, 79
percent, of people deported under Secure Communities had no criminal records or
had been picked up for low-level offenses, like traffic violations and juvenile
mischief. Of the approximately 47,000 people deported in that period only about
20 percent had been charged with or convicted of serious ''Level 1'' crimes,
like assault and drug dealing.

The national average of Secure Communities deportees with no criminal records
was about 26 percent, but that figure also varied wildly around the country. It
was 54 percent in Maricopa County, Ariz., whose sheriff is notorious for staging
indiscriminate immigration raids. In Travis County, Tex., it was 82 percent.

The Obama administration has deployed Secure Communities in 544 jurisdictions in
27 states, including every county along the southern border. It plans to have
the entire country participating by 2013. Secure Communities ''focuses our
resources on identifying and removing the most serious criminal offenders first
and foremost,'' said John Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement.

The program now appears to be quite different from that: an effort to yoke local
police into a broad campaign of civil immigration enforcement, maximizing the
detention and deportation of the people whom Mr. Obama says he wants to give a
chance to pay their debt to society and earn their right to become Americans.

Secure Communities won't make the country more secure, not the way it is
working. Police departments that don't want to participate should be able to opt
out. The Obama administration needs to fix it or jettison it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency Ends Some Deportations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 951 words


Immigration enforcement officials have started to cancel the deportations of
thousands of immigrants they have detained, a policy they said would pare huge
case backlogs in the immigration courts.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said the new approach was part of
a broad shift in priorities at the agency, to focus its efforts on catching and
deporting immigrants who have been convicted of crimes or pose a national
security threat. The policy -- announced in an Aug. 20 memorandum from John
Morton, the head of the agency -- drew praise from immigrant advocates, who
called it a common-sense strategy, and was denounced by several Republicans as
evidence that the Obama administration was weakening enforcement and making it
easier for illegal immigrants to remain in the country.

The change in emphasis at the immigration agency, which represents a significant
break with longstanding practices, has awakened resistance among agents and
detention officers on the ground, according to officials of the agency, which is
known as ICE, and of the union representing those employees.

Mr. Morton's memorandum refers to a particular group of illegal immigrants:
those who have been detained in ICE operations because they did not have legal
status, but who have active applications in the system to become legal
residents. The memo encourages ICE officers and lawyers to use their authority
to dismiss those cases, canceling the deportation proceedings, if they determine
that the immigrants have no criminal records and stand a strong chance of having
their residence applications approved.

The policy is intended to address a ''major inefficiency'' that has led to an
unnecessary pileup of cases in the immigration courts, Mr. Morton said. The
courts have reported at least 17,000 cases that could be eliminated from their
docket if ICE dismissed deportations of immigrants, like those married to United
States citizens, who were very likely to win legal status, the memo says.

To resolve that number of deportation cases, officials will have to fix
persistent breakdowns in coordination between two federal agencies that oversee
the nation's overburdened and troubled immigration system, ICE officials
acknowledged. On one hand, ICE enforces immigration law. Another agency,
Citizenship and Immigration Services, is in charge of approving applications for
immigration documents. When ICE opens a deportation case against an immigrant,
it is heard in immigration court.

The courts are swamped under a backlog that reached a record in June of 247,922
cases, according to the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a research
group at Syracuse University that analyzes federal data. The average waiting
time for cases in those courts was 459 days.

But immigration lawyers said they are currently waiting as long as two years to
get a hearing date in some especially crowded immigration courts.

The new policy ''is a pretty basic, common-sense thing to do,'' said Helen
Harnett, policy director for the National Immigrant Justice Center, a legal
assistance group in Chicago. She said that if an immigrant's application for
legal residence was ultimately denied, ICE could reinstate the deportation.

''This is for people who do have a path to legalize their status,'' said Mary
Meg McCarthy, director of the justice center. ''This does not create a new path
to legalization for anyone.''

But Republican lawmakers said the Obama administration was moving toward a de
facto legalization program by allowing some illegal immigrants to remain here
despite their violations of the law.

''Actions like this demoralize ICE agents who are trying to do their job and
enforce the law,'' said Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.
''Unfortunately, it appears this is more evidence that the Obama administration
would rather circumvent Congress and give a free pass to illegal immigrants who
have already broken our law.''

Mr. Morton's memorandum was first reported this week in The Houston Chronicle,
which found that some immigrants in Texas had already seen their deportations
canceled.

ICE officials said they arrived at the policy after conferring with immigration
court officials. ''This is not a backdoor amnesty,'' said Beth Gibson, assistant
deputy director of ICE. ''It is really about efficient use of docket space and
smart use of everybody's scarce resources.''

The agency has deported a record number of 167,000 immigrants with criminal
convictions in the past year, ICE officials said, an increase of about 43
percent over the previous year.

However, dissension in the ranks at ICE surfaced on June 25, when a local of the
American Federation of Government Employees representing some enforcement and
detention officers announced that it had taken a vote of no confidence in Mr.
Morton.

The director and other senior ICE officials had ''abandoned the agency's core
mission of enforcing United States immigration laws,'' the local said in a news
release, undertaking ''reckless and misguided initiatives'' while failing to
alert Congress to the need for more manpower and funds for ICE.

Chris Crane, the president of the local, did not respond to an e-mail message on
Thursday.

The national president of the federation, John Gage, said the union had not yet
taken a position on the issues raised by the local. Mr. Gage said after several
ICE locals had complained, he called a meeting next week of representatives of
all of the federation's locals that represent ICE employees.

''I really would like to get some facts,'' Mr. Gage said Thursday. ''Our ICE
officers have real concerns, but there is conflicting information. If there is
any increased risk to our people, we will be all over it,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

State Urges Schools to Avoid Immigration Status of Pupils

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 567 words


The State Education Department has sent school districts a memorandum strongly
recommending that they not ask for information that might reveal the immigration
status of enrolling students, after a civil liberties group complained that
scores of districts were requesting such information in possible violation of
federal law.

The memo, which was sent on Monday, explained that a 1982 Supreme Court decision
had recognized the right of all children, regardless of immigration status, to
attend public school as long as they met the age and residency requirements
established by state law.

''Accordingly, at the time of registration,'' the memo said, ''schools should
avoid asking questions related to immigration status or that may reveal a
child's immigration status, such as asking for a Social Security number.''

The memo, titled ''Student Registration Guidance,'' followed months of pressure
from the New York Civil Liberties Union, which had discovered that some 139
districts -- about 20 percent of the total -- were requiring children's
immigration papers as a prerequisite to enrollment, or asking parents for
information that only lawful immigrants could provide. The group repeatedly
asked the Education Department to stop those practices.

While the group did not find any cases in which children had been turned away
for lack of immigration paperwork, it worried that the requirements could deter
illegal immigrant families from enrolling children for fear that their status
might be reported to federal authorities. The requested documents included
Social Security cards and resident alien cards.

The state's education law, which mandates a free public education for all
residents ages 5 to 21 who have no high school diploma, allows districts to
require documents that prove age and residency, like rental leases, birth
certificates, consular identification cards and utility bills. It does not
mention immigration-related documents.

The Education Department resisted taking any direct action to advise districts
on the law. But after The New York Times published an article on the issue in
July, some school districts asked state officials for guidance, and the
department decided to issue the memo, a spokesman said.

''Shortly after the story ran, we revisited the issue and felt that it would be
helpful to districts to give them more comprehensive guidance,'' the spokesman,
Jonathan Burman, said Tuesday. The Education Department developed the memo in
consultation with lawyers at the civil liberties union, he said.

Asked why the memo stopped short of forbidding districts to request
immigration-related documents, Mr. Burman said: ''This was developed by our team
of lawyers, and vetted and discussed and shared with the N.Y.C.L.U.'s counsel.
So we felt that this was the best, most legally accurate guidance that we could
share with the field.''

The civil liberties group applauded the memo. ''There's no question that a
strong mandate would've been better,'' said Udi Ofer, the group's advocacy
director. ''But the language included in this guidance makes it clear that
school districts must amend their policies to be in compliance with
constitutional law.''

Mr. Ofer also warned that the guidance was only as good as its enforcement.
''The state must aggressively monitor the enrollment practices of the school
districts,'' he said. If not, he warned, ''surely the problem will continue.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Agency's Tactic Spurs Alarm

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1048 words


In his short life, Ousmane Coulibaly, a 19-year-old high school senior in
Manhattan, has seen plenty of adversity. He grew up poor in Mali, was estranged
from his family at 13 and has lived on the street there and in New York. An
illegal immigrant, he is staying in a homeless shelter while he tries to
graduate and obtain a special immigration status reserved for young people who
have been abandoned or abused.

But now he is facing a different kind of challenge: an investigation by
immigration authorities who have subpoenaed his school records, without
explaining why.

The subpoena, which New York City school officials say is highly unusual here,
has raised alarm among some immigration lawyers and civil libertarians who say
they fear that the federal government is opening a new front in immigration
enforcement, in a city where officials have staunchly defended immigrant rights.

Mr. Coulibaly's lawyers, who have sued to quash the request, contend that the
City Department of Education was prepared to release the files without
resistance, even though the subpoena did not have the backing of a court order
and could have been challenged.

Education officials say that their policy is to comply with all legally issued
subpoenas and that they gave the student a chance to contest the one from
Immigration and Customs Enforcement. A spokesman for the immigration agency said
that it regularly asked schools around the country for student records, and that
most were ''completely cooperative.''

But the American Civil Liberties Union and the New York Civil Liberties Union
said they had not heard of similar subpoenas from the agency. ''New York City
must protect its immigrant students from having their education records turned
over to immigration authorities without cause,'' said Udi Ofer, advocacy
director of the New York group, though he added that he was not familiar with
the specifics of Mr. Coulibaly's case.

The immigration agency sent the subpoena to education officials on July 21,
seeking ''any and all records relating to Ousmane Coulibaly's contact
information, dates of attendance and class schedules,'' but gave no reason for
the inquiry.

Two days later, a lawyer for the Education Department sent a letter to Mr.
Coulibaly, saying that it would hand over the files unless a court stopped their
release. ''You may wish to consult with an attorney,'' the department's lawyer
wrote. The letter was also sent to Mr. Coulibaly's immigration lawyer.

Lauren Burke, a lawyer at a social services agency that has been helping Mr.
Coulibaly, hurriedly moved to block the subpoena, and Judge George B. Daniels of
United States District Court in Manhattan issued a temporary restraining order
blocking release of the records pending a hearing, now scheduled for Sept. 27.

Mr. Coulibaly's lawyers contend, among other arguments, that the subpoena
violates due process and equal protection rights that courts have accorded to
students, regardless of immigration status, under the 14th Amendment. The
immigration agency, the lawyers say, appears to be on ''a fishing expedition''
into their client's life.

Immigration officials would not discuss their investigation.

A spokeswoman for the Education Department, Natalie Ravitz, said in an e-mail
that although the department regularly received subpoenas for student records,
''no one can even remember the last time we received an ICE subpoena.''

The department must obey subpoenas, she wrote, pointing out that federal law
permits schools to release student records without consent from the student or
the student's parents to comply with a judicial order or a lawfully issued
subpoena. But under federal law, she added, the department must inform the
student -- or the parents or legal guardians of a minor -- ''before we comply
with a subpoena, precisely so they can decide whether to challenge the
legality.''

Ms. Ravitz would not say whether the department had intended to challenge the
subpoena if Mr. Coulibaly declined. ''Our job is to educate the students of
N.Y.C.,'' she wrote. ''We don't ask students their immigration status, and it
would not be appropriate for us to inject ourselves into this immigration
matter.''

Mr. Coulibaly admits he is not a legal immigrant. He traveled to the United
States on a tourist visa in 2007, when he was 16, and stayed beyond the visa's
expiration. But he, his lawyers and education officials said they had no idea
why immigration authorities had singled him out from perhaps thousands of
illegal immigrants in New York schools.

''I don't know what I did,'' Mr. Coulibaly said during an interview in the
offices of the social services agency, the Door, which works with disadvantaged
youths. ''If they want to see me, they can see me.''

A large, quiet man, he said he left home when he was 13 -- under circumstances
he would not discuss -- and moved to Bamako, Mali's capital, where he lived by
his wits. He found work as a live-in housekeeper for a Malian businessman, who
helped him secure the visa and put him on a plane to New York, he said.

Mr. Coulibaly arrived at Kennedy International Airport speaking little English
and knowing nobody. A West African cabdriver took pity on him, he said, and
drove him to an apartment in Harlem shared by several immigrants, where he was
given a bed. A neighbor helped him enroll in ninth grade at Liberty High School
Academy for Newcomers, a public school in Manhattan that caters to immigrants.

Mr. Coulibaly joined the varsity basketball team and became the starting center.
He ended his sophomore season as the third-highest rebounder and the
19th-highest scorer in the city's Public School Athletic League. He was benched
for much of the season his junior year while he improved his grades.

Meanwhile, he tried to support himself with work at a car wash and, later, as a
pizza deliveryman. He had to leave his $150-per-month bed in the Harlem
apartment early this year after he fell behind on the rent. Since then, he said,
he has moved from shelter to shelter.

Before the subpoena appeared, his lawyer, Ms. Burke, had been helping him
prepare an application for the special immigration status for young people who
are in the United States without their parents' support. She and Mr. Coulibaly
are pushing forward with that case as they battle the subpoena.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 22, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Passion and Politics on Immigration Act

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Julia Preston contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 429 words


WASHINGTON -- Cesar Vargas graduated from James Madison High School in Brooklyn,
just like Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Bernard
Sanders, independent of Vermont.

And like his fellow Madison alumni, Mr. Vargas wants to serve his country -- in
his case by becoming a military lawyer after he graduates from the City
University of New York law school, where he is in his third year.

But Mr. Vargas, who was brought by his parents to the United States from Mexico
when he was 5, cannot join the armed forces. He cannot vote. He cannot travel
outside the country or he will not be allowed to return because he is an illegal
immigrant.

On Tuesday, he was in Washington to help Democrats press for legislation that
would give immigrants like him a path to citizenship.

The legislation, known as the Dream Act, would give legal residency to
immigrants who arrived in the United States before age 16 and resided here for
at least five years, earned a high school degree and completed two years of
college or military service. They would be subject to background checks, could
not have a criminal record and, even if successful, would still not be eligible
for benefits like Pell grants.

At a news conference with Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who
is a leading champion of the legislation, Mr. Vargas made an impassioned pitch
for the bill.

''Without the Dream Act, I'm relegated to a mere shadow,'' he said, after
recounting his longtime hopes of joining the military. He said he had repeatedly
tried to enlist, especially after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, but was turned
away.

''I'm asking Congress to give us the opportunity to serve the only country we
know, the only country we call home,'' he said.

But this week, Senate Democrats seemed more intent on talking about the act than
on passing it. By declaring his desire to attach it to a major military bill,
the majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, sought to remind Hispanic voters that
most Democrats supported the immigration measure. The military bill was blocked
on Tuesday, and it is unclear that Mr. Reid has enough votes, even among
Democrats, to advance the Dream Act.

Some advocates said young immigrants were political pawns.

''The tragedy is that the kids believe it is an honest process and get played by
both sides,'' said Kevin Appleby, director of immigration policy for the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops. ''It can be very disheartening to them.
They deserve a simple majority vote based on the merits, not one caught up in
procedure and pre-election politics.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cesar Vargas told his story. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW ANGERER/ THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportations From U.S. Hit a Record High

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 662 words


Immigration authorities deported a record 392,862 immigrants over the last year,
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said Wednesday.

About half of those deported -- 195,772 -- were convicted criminals, also a
record, Ms. Napolitano said, and an increase of more than 81,000 deportations of
criminals over the final year of George W. Bush's presidency.

As midterm elections approach, Obama administration officials are facing intense
pressure to show they are tough on illegal immigration. States across the
country have enacted laws to crack down, citing a failure of the federal
government to do the job. An especially broad law adopted by Arizona drew a
lawsuit from the federal government and an outcry from Latinos in the state, who
said it could lead to harassment and racial profiling. A federal judge stayed
central provisions of the law.

In some races for Congress, particularly in the Southwest, a candidate's
position on the Arizona law has become a litmus test for many voters, especially
among Republicans.

Ms. Napolitano said the deportation figures, especially the criminals figure,
reflected the Obama administration's shift to focusing more closely on
''removing those who pose public safety threats to our communities.'' The
overall figures for deportations increased slightly from about 389,000 in the
2009 fiscal year, also a record at the time.

The surge in deportations of criminals came in part as a result of a program
called Secure Communities, officials say, which allows local law enforcement
officers to check the immigration status of every person, including American
citizens, booked into a county or local jail. The identity check is based on
comparing fingerprints of people arrested against prints in Department of
Homeland Security databases.

Initiated in 2008 in Harris County, Tex., which includes Houston, the program
has grown to include about 660 counties and cities nationwide. Sheriff Adrian
Garcia of Harris County said on Tuesday that since the start of the program
officers there had identified more than 20,000 immigrants in the county jail
system who were eligible for deportation.

Many immigrants in Houston who were identified for deportation ''didn't come
here to make a better life for themselves, they came to continue their criminal
careers,'' Sheriff Garcia said.

About one-third of the criminals who were deported had committed the most
serious crimes, including murder, rape and major drug offenses, according to the
Homeland Security figures.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement also conducted more than 2,200 audits of
hiring documents at businesses to check for unauthorized immigrant workers, the
officials said, bringing criminal charges against 180 employers and levying more
than $50 million in fines.

Officials said that many of the nearly 200,000 immigrants deported who had
committed no crimes were fugitives from immigration courts or had recently
crossed the border illegally.

Immigration lawyers questioned that portrayal. ''Were they immigrants who were
just caught in the web of a very dysfunctional system?'' asked David Leopold,
president of the American Immigration Lawyers Association. He said that
repairing the system would require a broader overhaul to provide channels for
illegal immigrants to gain legal status.

''Everybody is behind smart enforcement,'' Mr. Leopold said. ''But smart
enforcement without a comprehensive fix to the system is not smart.'' Despite
repeated pledges by President Obama, he has made no progress on persuading
Congress to take up an overhaul.

Researchers who study federal statistics said they could not dig into the
immigration figures to learn more about the deportees who were not criminals,
because immigration authorities had blocked them for the first time from
receiving detailed data.

''It is unprecedented what they are doing withholding data,'' said Susan B.
Long, a co-director of the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse, a group
that studies federal data.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                         The New York Times on the Web

The 'Dream Act' Proposal on Immigration

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg.

LENGTH: 304 words


To the Editor:

''Dream Time'' (editorial, Sept. 20) doesn't tell the whole story. The Dream
Act, which was blocked in the Senate on Tuesday -- it was attached to a Pentagon
spending bill that was filibustered -- would grant lawful permanent residence
and then citizenship to millions of individuals.

Just as in every other amnesty program, fraud in the Dream Act process will
drive the number much higher, as illegal immigrants discover how easy it is to
claim that they arrived in the United States before the age of 15.

The Dream Act makes it easy for almost any illegal immigrant -- even those who
do not qualify for the amnesty -- to evade the law. Once an alien files an
application, no matter how spurious, the federal government is prohibited from
deporting the illegal immigrant.

The Dream Act will encourage more illegal immigration since illegal-immigrant
parents will bring their children with them in the expectation that they will
benefit from another Dream Act. The bill is a dream for those who have broken
the law, but a nightmare for law-abiding and taxpaying Americans who foot the
bill for continued illegal immigration.

The American people have repeatedly demonstrated their strong opposition to
amnesty for millions of illegal immigrants. Unfortunately the administration and
the Democrats are choosing not to listen.

Lamar Smith San Antonio, Sept. 22, 2010

The writer is ranking member on the House Judiciary Committee.

To the Editor:

It's sad to see The Times endorsing an immigration plan that offers military
service as an incentive to acquiring citizenship. This idea reinforces the
policy of having our most disadvantaged young men and women give their time, and
sometimes their lives, to fight our wars while the rest of us stay home with
nothing to lose.

Jack Herschlag Upper Montclair, N.J., Sept. 20, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 29, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hispanics Cite Bias In Survey

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 325 words


More than 6 in 10 Latinos in the United States say discrimination is a ''major
problem'' for them, a significant increase in the last three years, according to
a survey of Latino attitudes by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research
group.

In 2007, the center reported, 54 percent of Latinos said discrimination was a
major problem. That year, nearly half of Latinos -- 46 percent -- cited language
as the primary cause for that discrimination. In the new survey, 36 percent --
the largest number -- said that immigration status was the leading cause.

The Pew Hispanic Center report comes as Latino voters could play a decisive role
in several close midterm races, including the Senate contests in California,
Colorado and Nevada, and the governor's race in California.

The nation's largest minority (at 47 million) feels beleaguered by backlash from
the polarized debate over immigration in the last year, the survey shows. While
29 percent said the impact of illegal immigration on Hispanics living here had
been positive, 31 percent said it had been negative, a sharp increase since
2007.

That year, before the recession started, fully half of Latinos said illegal
immigration had had a positive impact on those already in this country. Still,
86 percent of Latinos support legislation to open a path to citizenship for an
estimated 11.1 million illegal immigrants if they pay fines, pass background
checks and have jobs. About four in five illegal immigrants are Latino, the Pew
center has estimated.

According to the report, 51 percent of Latinos have more confidence in the
Democratic Party on immigration issues, while 19 percent trust the Republicans
more. But the top issue for Latinos these days is education, with immigration
their fourth priority.

The vast majority, 79 percent, oppose the law aimed at curbing illegal
immigration passed in Arizona, while 78 percent oppose repealing the birthright
citizenship clauses of the Constitution.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Coming Out Illegal

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 319 words


My husband and I both work to send our kids to college in California. We vote,
pay taxes, do volunteer work and obey the law. The story about the illegal
immigrants attending school with in-state tuition made us both livid. These
illegals have no right to be in our country, and yet California, with huge
financial problems, gives them in-state tuition! What's wrong with this picture?
Who gets to pick and choose which laws to enforce? Why should illegals get a
break on anything?

KATHERINE HOGAN Portland, Ore.

Maggie Jones demonstrates the risk that undocumented students will take to
further the cause of immigration reform. While admirable, it is also dangerous,
because deportation isn't the only threat facing these students who publicly
''come out'' in support of the Dream Act.

The act, which allows students who graduate from American high schools the
chance to earn conditional permanent residency by completing at least two years
in the military or two years at a four-year institution of higher learning,
sounds harmless. The peril, however, is that it will become a
military-recruiting tool for young people of color who can't afford college. Two
years in the military sounds simple; yet the military requires an eight-year
service commitment.

With ongoing wars, the military establishment is one of the act's staunchest
supporters. Recruitment is down, and educational standards have been lowered.
Young undocumented immigrants who enlist to meet the act's provisions are
hard-working and highly motivated and possess high-school degrees, or in other
words, they are high-quality recruits. While we are in need of sound immigration
reform, the act has the potential to become a military-recruitment pipeline,
which ultimately becomes a threat to communities and individuals who will go to
great lengths to pursue the American dream.

LILIANA C. YANEZ Clinical Instructor, CUNY School of Law Flushing, N.Y.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: MOST POPULAR LETTERS TOPIC: ''COMING OUT ILLEGAL,'' BY MAGGIE
JONES

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Program to Have Police Spot Illegal Immigrants Is Mired in Confusion

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1103 words


In 2008, the Bush administration announced an ambitious new program to help
federal officials detain and deport illegal immigrants held on criminal charges
by using fingerprints collected by local police departments.

But two years later, as the program is being put into effect state by state,
confusion abounds in New York and elsewhere, among officials and immigrant
advocates alike, about how it works and whether local participation is required.

Several counties around the nation have voted to opt out of the program, called
Secure Communities, because of concerns that it could ensnare immigrants who
have committed low-level offenses or chill crime-fighting cooperation between
immigrants and the police.

As recently as last week, the spokesman for New York State's criminal justice
agency maintained that the program was optional for local governments. But
federal officials now say that participation was never voluntary. The program,
they say, will be up and running nationwide by 2013.

The confusion appears to be largely the fault of federal immigration officials,
who in recent months have issued vaguely worded or seemingly contradictory
statements about the program.

''The Department of Homeland Security has done a horrible job of, one,
explaining the policy; two, explaining the implementation process; and three,
explaining the local jurisdictional role,'' said Chung-Wha Hong, executive
director of the New York Immigration Coalition, who has urged the state not to
join the program. ''It doesn't inspire confidence.''

Under Secure Communities, the fingerprints of everyone booked into a local or
county jail will automatically be sent to the Department of Homeland Security
and compared with prints in the agency's databases. If officials discover that a
suspect is in the country illegally, or is a noncitizen immigrant with a
criminal record, they might seek to deport him or her.

More than 750 jurisdictions in 34 states have already joined the program, which
has contributed to a surge in deportations over the last year. But resistance
has arisen among some elected officials and immigrant advocates who contend that
the program has caught up a disproportionate number of immigrants charged with
low-level offenses, rather than the dangerous criminals it was primarily
intended to snag.

Federal officials require states' permission to start the program, and states
can refuse. In New York, where opposition surfaced early in immigrant-friendly
cities, Gov. David A. Paterson signed an agreement in May to cooperate.

New York officials said that numerous written and spoken conversations with
Homeland Security in the past several months left them with the understanding
that participation at the local level was voluntary, as well.

On July 23, for instance, Dan Cadman, a regional coordinator for the Secure
Communities program, sent an e-mail to the State Division of Criminal Justice
Services. ''No jurisdiction will be activated if they oppose it,'' Mr. Cadman
wrote. ''There is no ambiguity on that point. We get it.''

He added, ''We will do everything we can to work with a N.Y. law enforcement
agency to satisfy its concerns but at the end of the day, if they are opposed,
we won't go forward.''

In recent weeks, Janet Napolitano, the Homeland Security secretary, has declared
repeatedly that the program will be mandatory for the entire country by 2013.

Yet last Wednesday, officials in Albany said they had been assured by federal
authorities that local jurisdictions could choose not to join the data-sharing
network. ''We have written and oral assurances that it is an opt-in, opt-out
situation,'' said John M. Caher, spokesman for the state's Division of Criminal
Justice Services. ''No local community would automatically be in.''

Two days later, however, after further discussion among state officials who
continued to wrestle with the federal government's seemingly conflicting
messages, Mr. Caher refined his message. ''Apparently,'' he said, ''it is the
position of the federal government that it can require participation.''

Homeland Security officials said that they never intended to imply that the
program was optional. Rather, the only wiggle room available to local
authorities is deciding when -- not if -- they will be added to the network.

''The deployment can be delayed and rescheduled, and we'll work to iron out
issues related to the deployment,'' a Homeland Security official said, asking
that he not be identified because he did not want to ''talk over'' Ms.
Napolitano's recent comments.

To participate in Secure Communities, police departments must install new
fingerprinting equipment or make minor changes to existing technology, to allow
fingerprint data to flow automatically to the Justice Department and Homeland
Security.

No locality in New York State has signed up yet, but the entire state is
scheduled to join in the next three years, according to Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, the arm of Homeland Security that is managing the program.

In New York City, where city leaders have energetically tried to keep local
police out of immigration enforcement, Councilman Ydanis Rodriguez said he
planned to introduce a resolution asking Governor Paterson to pull out of Secure
Communities, saying that the new system might discourage immigrants from
reporting crime or testifying in cases. The City Council plans a hearing
Wednesday to discuss the relationship between the immigration agency and the
city's Department of Correction.

A spokesman for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said the city would join the federal
program. ''Our reading of the laws are that we have to comply, and we are,''
said the spokesman, Jason Post. Elected leaders in several places -- including
Santa Clara County, Calif. and Arlington County, Va. -- have voted not to share
fingerprint information with immigration authorities, though they have since
been told by federal authorities that they must do so as long as their states
participate in Secure Communities.

Though states can refuse to cooperate, there is a cost: Any state that declines
to share fingerprints with the Justice Department will in turn lose access to
the criminal databases of other states and the federal government, seriously
hampering crime-fighting efforts.

The only latitude local authorities have under the program, officials said, is
to decide whether to look at the immigration information that Homeland Security
sends back in response to the fingerprint data. But regardless of the local
jurisdiction's posture, officials said, immigration authorities can still act on
the information -- and move to deport the suspects.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrant Students Protest at McCain Office

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 802 words


In an escalation of protest tactics, five immigrants dressed in caps and gowns
held a sit-in on Monday at the Tucson offices of Senator John McCain, calling on
him to sponsor legislation to open a path to legal status for young illegal
immigrants.

Four of the protesters, including three who are in the country illegally, were
arrested Monday evening on misdemeanor trespassing charges. The three were
expected to face deportation proceedings.

It was the first time students have directly risked deportation in an effort to
prompt Congress to take up a bill that would benefit illegal immigrant youths.

Separately on Monday, a lawsuit was filed in federal court in Phoenix by a
coalition of civil rights, labor and religious groups challenging the new
Arizona law that allows the police to detain suspected illegal immigrants as
unconstitutional, saying it would lead to racial profiling.

Though it was the fifth suit challenging the law, it was widely believed to have
the best chance of being heard by the courts given the groups' experience and
the nature of the complaint.

Brooke Buchanan, a spokeswoman for Mr. McCain, said of the protesters, ''The
individuals have a right to peacefully protest in the senator's office,'' and
added that Mr. McCain ''understands the students' frustrations.''

But she said: ''Elections have consequences, and they should focus their efforts
on the president and the Democrats that control the agenda in Congress.''

Mr. McCain, a Republican, has in years past repeatedly sponsored a bill that
would offer legalization for illegal immigrant students who were brought to the
United States as children by their parents, known to its supporters as the Dream
Act. But this year he has not. Mr. McCain is facing a primary challenge from J.D
Hayworth, a talk show host who has taken a tough stand on illegal immigrants.

The students protesting in Mr. McCain's office said they wanted to increase
pressure on Congress to pass the Dream Act this year, even if lawmakers do not
take up a broader overhaul of the immigration system. The student bill is
currently part of a Democratic proposal for an overhaul, largely written by
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York.

''I've been organizing for years, and a lot of my friends have become frustrated
and lost hope,'' said one of the students, Lizbeth Mateo, 25. ''We don't have
any more time to be waiting. I really believe this year we can make it happen.''

Ms. Mateo, who came to the United States when she was 14, said she paid full
tuition to earn a degree from California State University, Northridge, the first
member of her family to graduate from college. She said her plans to attend law
school had failed because she lacked legal status.

Ms. Mateo was arrested, along with Mohammad Abdollahi, 24, of Ann Arbor, Mich.;
and Yahaira Carrillo, 25, of Kansas City, Mo. All three are illegal immigrants.

Also arrested was Raul Alcaraz, 27, an immigrant from Mexico who is a legal
resident and a counselor at a Tucson high school.

The protesters walked into Mr. McCain's office just before noon and sat in the
lobby.

Tania Unzueta, 26, who is from Los Angeles, joined the sit-in, but she said the
group decided she should leave the protest in order to avoid  arrest.

Mr. Abdollahi said he could not return to Iran, where he was born, because he is
gay and feared persecution there.

Margo Cowan, a lawyer representing the students, said that the Tucson police
said they would advise federal immigration authorities of the arrests, and that
she expected the students would be put in immigration detention.

Illegal immigrant students have become increasingly public in their protests in
recent months, as the prospects for an immigration overhaul faded in Washington.
Four immigrant students walked from Miami to Washington, arriving in late April.
So far, immigration authorities have not moved to detain student protesters.

Lawmakers are divided over whether to take up the Dream Act as separate
legislation. Andy Fisher, a spokesman for Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana, a
Republican who is a lead sponsor of the bill, said that the senator did not
support any effort to advance a comprehensive immigration overhaul this year,
but that he believed the Dream Act could be ''doable'' separately.

An aide to Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, a Democrat who is the act's
other lead sponsor, said he continued to see it as part of an overhaul.

Lawyers for the groups that filed the suit over the Arizona immigration law
Monday took aim at a chief argument of its supporters: that it largely parallels
existing federal statutes. The lawyers said the Arizona law went further because
federal agents are not required to check the immigration status of people they
stop or arrest, as the state law requires.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Four students held a sit-in Monday in the Tucson office of
Senator John McCain. They were, from left, Tania Unzueta, Lizbeth Mateo and
Yahaira Carrillo, of Mexico, and Mohammad Abdollahi of Iran. Raul Alcaraz, a
legal resident from Mexico, joined. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

One Border, Many Sides

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1820 words


President Obama, appearing on Wednesday with Felipe Calderon, the president of
Mexico, denounced Arizona's new law on illegal immigration as ''a misdirected
expression of frustration over our broken immigration system.'' Though the law
is new, the frustration is most certainly not.

Two years ago, before the last presidential election, I  interviewed  people
living and working in Phoenix and at the Arizona-Mexico border, and much of what
I heard then echoes strongly in the debate over the Arizona law. Even then, as I
sat at  office desks, or  in living rooms, or outside at picnic tables, the
words were dramatic. The impassioned, rhythmic cadences suggested a social
movement. I suspect the speakers were rehearsing the language that we are now
hearing nationally.

Here are excerpts from those conversations:

-- ANNA DEAVERE SMITH, an actress and playwright who is a professor at New York
University

Patricia Vroom, chief counsel for  the United States Immigration and Customs
Enforcement agency in  Arizona

Arizona doesn't hate brown people. I think really what you're talking about is
more of a tension of ''Well, wait a second here, I thought I knew that this was
my land, what are you doing coming on my property and presuming to take it
over?''

There's literally thousands and thousands of people -- I mean, at one point, the
Border Patrol, the Tucson section, would arrest 20,000 people a week. I've flown
over the border quite a few times in helicopters and the trash that is left by
people who are coming in illegally, you could not believe it. In a wash, an area
where people might have spent the night, they'll leave plastic bags, they'll
leave backpacks, they'll leave shoes and they've left their water bottles --
because they typically will carry these gallon jugs of water with them. There
will be plastic bags, there will be diapers.

There's a lot of cattle that roam freely in a lot of these areas, and these
animals will often be found who have died with huge distress because they will
have swallowed one of these plastic bags and then it gets caught in their
digestive tract and they die an agonizing death.

I mean, you're up in a helicopter and you just see swarms of people sometimes --
150 in one place, and then you'll see another group of 15 or 16 and then you'll
go a little bit longer and you'll see the Border Patrol rounding up another five
or six.

The drug cartels are also very much involved in human smuggling. It's just
terrible, terrible victimization of people who are being -- who have allowed
themselves to be smuggled because they don't know what they're buying into.

Miguel Calvillo,border crosser

My father had been living here since 1985. And one day he told us that he would
like us to come over so we could be all together.

Back in 1990 it was pretty easy to cross the border. We crossed right next to
where the immigration officer was checking passports. Right next to it was like
a big hole in the fence. It was so funny because he just stared at the side and
said, ''No, no, no, go back.'' And then people just waited until he would get
distracted so they could cross. But we were stopped within like 10 minutes. So
we had to go back home, and I was excited because I really didn't want  to come,
because I had a girlfriend. And then two weeks later we tried again and we made
it that time.

The second time we didn't cross through the hole; we had to jump over the fence.

And then when we got into the city, I was like, ''Oh, my God.'' I was in the
United States, you know, looking at all the buildings and everything. And then
we got into the apartment. I was expecting a big house with nice furniture, but
it was totally different. It was my dad, my mom, my older brother, a family
friend, my other older brother, myself and my little sister living  in this
studio. Because when I was a little kid and I used to read the letters my dad
used to send to my mom, I mean you dream and imagine things. I imagined like
they were living in this big house. We were little kids and we were dreaming
about having the family all together finally.

In fact, my dad abandoned us for another woman months after he brought us here.
Even though he left, he continued helping us with our documents. He submitted
the applications for  legal status and when he married that other woman that
sped up the process because she is a U.S. citizen.

Roxana Bacon,lawyer, Phoenix (now chief counsel for United States Citizenship
and Immigration Services, in Washington)

When you think about the sort of rhetoric of hate -- it assumes that everybody's
packing their bags and racing north. It's just not the case, and the kind of
people who choose to immigrate are really people who look a lot like the
American ideals. They're ambitious. They're fairly self-confident. They're
risk-takers. They're kind of strong, hearty people. They're usually driven
because they want to protect their families, which are on the borderline of
really falling apart because there's actually no way to make any money in the
country they're sitting in. That's the majority and then there's a new stratum
globally -- very successful, capable professionals who move around mostly in the
science and engineering fields.

Our housing industry, our service industry, our gardening, landscape industry,
you name it -- it's been dependent for decades on Mexican labor. None of those
people qualify for an employment-based visa. So when the hate mongers say, ''Why
can't they wait in line? Why can't they get a visa?''  -- there aren't any visas
to get! There's no line to wait in! And that's why everyone who knows this area
of law says without comprehensive immigration reform you really aren't going to
solve any of these pop-up issues.

Joe  Arpaio, sheriff of Maricopa County

I am the elected sheriff. I don't report to any governor, any legislature, any
mayor and city council. I report directly to the people. And, remember, I've
already retired -- 32 years as a law enforcement guy. I don't need this job. I'm
not building a resume to be the governor. I could have been the governor two
times over. Everybody knows that. I just have a special link with the people I
serve. The only reason I work 15 hours a day, seven days a week -- and I'm not a
young guy -- is because I'm motivated by the people.

And when I go after a certain policy, I go full force, I don't do it halfway.
It's controversial, but it doesn't bother me; if people don't like it, go vote
for somebody else this year.

Phil Gordon,mayor of Phoenix

We'll look back and we'll really regret the reputation that the sheriff's
actions and others had given this community that isn't deserved. It is the voice
of a few individuals. The sheriff can go into any city the sheriff wants with
both his sworn officers and with posses designated by him, under the guise of
crime suppression. Has done it in Phoenix a number of times, has done it in a
suburb called Guadalupe, all predominantly Hispanic immigrant communities, poor
social lower class. Sets up a press conference, brings in dogs, brings in
helicopters, brings in SWAT teams, brings in horse patrols, and says that we are
going after illegal immigrants in one sentence, and then the other sentence
saying, no, we're just going after criminals.

His crime suppression is really nothing more than crime sweeps targeting
brown-skinned individuals. Stopping and arresting individuals in the middle of a
block, for littering, for honking their horn too loud, for having broken tail
lights, for riding a bike at night without a light, one case for driving in a
car with the tread of a tire too low -- pretenses to stop individuals who then
have to prove that they're here legally.

Al Garza,member of the Minuteman Civil Defense Corps, near the Arizona-Mexico
border

We're all immigrants to some point. So my thing is rule of law. And I speak
right from the, you know, I am Hispanic, of Mexican descent. We're legal, and
we've been legal, what, five generations.

I'm called ''the Oreo.'' It means that I'm brown on the outside and white on the
inside. And ''coconut'' as well.

The Garza family especially have fought in wars. My grandfather in World War I,
and he lost a brother. His son, my father, World War II. He lost two brothers.
And I was in Vietnam, and I lost a cousin. So we've shed the blood for the
United States. I am very proud of this country. We cannot afford any longer to
not take the rule of law for what it's really worth.

What I see wrong with illegal immigration is the fact that now they are going
through the borders, completely unannounced, breaking the first law. Now [they
have] to establish themselves in the form of documents. They look for a job.
They look for a residence. They obtain fraudulent documents.

[When patrolling the border,] you bring a lounge chair in most cases, an
umbrella, mosquito repellant, suntan lotion, things of this nature, water,
plenty of water, a phone, a radio. Food, things of this sort.

If you've got a license to carry, you are welcome to bring a gun. Mexico has
guns. And they also have machine guns. All we carry is a pistol.

Danny Ortega,lawyer, Phoenix

In most cases, the way we've dealt with hate is not necessarily how I'd like to
see it dealt with now. It's taken somebody's death. Take those little girls in
that church in Alabama. It wasn't till you got to that tragic point that people
began to look within the rubble to try to come up with something that might
prevent that from happening.

You would think that 400 deaths in the desert in one year, or close to 4,000
over several years, might get people to think about what it is we need to do as
a country to support human rights. So what's it going to  take? I hope it's not
some tragic act of senseless violence that finally brings people to say: ''Wait
a minute, this isn't right. That child or that man or that woman never should
have died as a result of this.''

Jack Harris,chief of police, Phoenix

We've had 100,000 Latinos marching right out in front of the police station here
down to the capitol. It brings out a lot of the extremists on both sides. We
have undercover people mixed into the crowds observing what's going on. And the
level of the rhetoric and the hatred is continuing to escalate.

And we're very concerned that it may end up like the riots of the '60s, where
eventually somebody is going to step over the line. Many of these people who are
showing up at these events are armed, carrying multiple weapons, and very, very
hate-filled rhetoric.

The answers are never clear-cut. It's never black and white. Everybody out of
the country, everybody allowed in the country, those are not the answers. The
answer is in the middle somewhere. And I'm very hopeful that following the
election process that whoever the new president is will take on this topic and
force us to come to a reasonable solution before we repeat history.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDUARDO SARMIENTO)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Trenton Gets It Right

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 338 words


A coalition of community groups in Trenton is issuing photo identification cards
to illegal immigrants. The cards are not government IDs, though they are
accepted by many check-cashing companies, libraries, stores, and medical
clinics, and at public parks and pools.

Giving unofficial IDs to undocumented immigrants defies the prevailing winds in
other states and localities, where the public mood, and sometimes local statute,
defines all immigrants without papers as criminals. These places make no
distinction between dangerous law-breakers and peaceable workers and families,
between those who harm a community and those who build it up.

They see the difference in Trenton -- and in Princeton, New Haven, San Francisco
and other cities. The Trenton police and the Mercer County sheriff and
prosecutor's office have endorsed the cards. Trenton's coalition -- a project of
the Latin American Legal Defense and Education Fund -- includes churches, civic
associations, the Fire Department and public schools.

All these groups, most significantly the law enforcement agencies, know that
having ID is vital to fighting crime, treating the sick and injured, and making
business and society function. They know that a community of anonymous members
is no community at all.

In Arizona, a new law enshrines the opposite view. ''The intent of this act is
to make attrition through enforcement the public policy of all state and local
government agencies in Arizona,'' it says. ''Attrition through enforcement'' is
the fantasy that illegal immigrants will deport themselves by the millions if
the government can make them sufficiently miserable and frightened.

Arizona and Trenton are both grappling with a broken immigration system, where
millions live outside the law. Arizona's approach is: Stay anonymous and afraid
and then maybe you'll get out. Trenton's is: Tell us who you are, and help us
build a community. Neither solution will solve the big problem. But it is clear
which is the more effective, humane and responsible.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 11, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Surprising Immigration Crackdown Advances

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 947 words


BOSTON -- Lawmakers were tangled in budget talks inside the Massachusetts
Statehouse this week, but  a 19-year-old college student spent even more time at
the gold-domed building on Beacon Hill.

Andres Del Castillo, who just finished his freshman year at Suffolk University
in Boston, is holding a vigil on the Statehouse steps to protest what could be
the state's harshest crackdown on illegal immigrants in decades. The plan,
already approved by the Senate, must survive budget negotiations with the House
to become law.

And while Arizona's tough new immigration policy seemed largely irrelevant here
when it passed in April -- both legislative chambers are controlled by Democrats
who typically pay scant attention to the issue, and Bill O'Reilly of Fox News
has derided Massachusetts as a ''sanctuary state'' for illegal immigrants --
ripple effects hit almost immediately.

Five days after the Arizona measure became law, the Massachusetts House came
close to passing a Republican proposal to block public benefits for illegal
immigrants. A similar bill failed overwhelmingly just a year earlier. But
supporters said the Arizona law -- and pockets of anger here over the case of
President Obama's Kenyan aunt, who had been living in public housing in Boston
while fighting a deportation order -- turned the tide.

''It's all part of the same stew we're in,'' said Representative Denise Provost,
a Democrat from Somerville who said her office was inundated with hostile calls
after she voted against the crackdown in April. ''It's partly Arizona, partly
the economy, partly radio show hosts being obsessed with these issues.''

By the time the Senate moved to tighten restrictions on illegal immigrants last
month, a Suffolk University/7 News poll had bolstered the position of Republican
lawmakers like Representative Jeffrey Perry, who is running for Congress on a
platform of curbing illegal immigration. The poll of 500 registered
Massachusetts voters found that more than half supported the Arizona law.

The poll, which had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage
points, also found that 84 percent want the state to require proof of
citizenship before approving benefits like public assistance.

Mr.  Perry said news accounts about Mr. Obama's aunt, and about a person
suspected of being an illegal immigrant who rear-ended another state lawmaker
last month, helped ignite the issue here. He also pointed to last month's arrest
of two Pakistani men here on immigration charges in connection with the
attempted bombing in Times Square.

''How much more egregious can it be than the president of the United States'
relative, who happens to be illegal, getting a housing subsidy?'' Mr. Perry
said. ''All these stories go against the contention of folks on the other side
of the issue that we don't have a problem.''

The Senate measure passed 28 to 10, as an amendment to the chamber's budget
bill, a day after the poll was released. It would strengthen or expand existing
rules that block illegal immigrants from public health care, housing and higher
education benefits.

The measure would also require the state attorney general to set up a telephone
line for people to anonymously report people suspected of being illegal
immigrants and businesses that hire them, and to investigate any such reports.
And it would require companies doing business with the state to confirm that
their workers were here legally.

''We never expected to have to be on the lookout for something like this in
Massachusetts,'' said Mr. Del Castillo, who has barely left the Statehouse since
Sunday and said he would stay until the Senate withdrew its legislation. ''It's
creating anti-immigrant sentiment within our communities, our schools and our
work environments.''

Mr. Del Castillo and a small group of others conducting the vigil are especially
concerned with a provision that would codify into law an existing policy that
bars illegal immigrants from qualifying for resident tuition rates at state
colleges. Most of them are students themselves, and their group, the Student
Immigrant Movement, has also rallied for federal legislation that would allow
illegal immigrants who arrived here before they turned 15 to apply for legal
residency.

Most drivers sped past the group Wednesday as it huddled on the rain-slicked
Statehouse steps. A few honked in support, and one leaned out the window of his
pickup truck to shout ''Get 'em out of the country!''

''Someone walked by today and said they were going to call ICE,'' said Renata
Teodoro, 22, referring to Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The six lawmakers charged with budget negotiations are meeting privately, and
while the three senators involved all voted for the new restrictions last month,
no clues have emerged about their fate.

Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat seeking re-election, has refused to say whether
he would veto the measure. And but for the group on the steps with their signs,
candles and blankets, there appeared to be little focus on the issue this week;
a banner across the Statehouse facade cheered on the Boston Celtics, who are
facing the Los Angeles Lakers in the National Basketball Association finals and
are dominating public attention here.

Jose Palma, 22, said he felt obliged to camp out at the Statehouse and
buttonhole passers-by about the crackdown to dispel a perception that it would
only strengthen existing rules.

''It's not just reinforcing what already exists,'' said Mr. Palma, who left El
Salvador in 1998 and has temporary protected status. ''That's why some of us are
sacrificing to be here 24/7 -- because we want everybody to understand what it
is.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Student Immigrant Movement has been at the Massachusetts
Statehouse since Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Nebraska City Torn as Immigration Vote Nears

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY; Brent McDonald contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words


FREMONT, Neb. -- In this city of 25,000, far from any international border, the
fight over illegal immigration has boiled over.

This is ordinarily a serene place with polite politics and votes that sail
through City Hall 8 to 0. But in a special election Monday, residents will
decide whether to ban businesses  from hiring illegal immigrants and bar
landlords from renting to them. Residents demanded the vote, fighting off
challenges by some of their elected leaders all the way to the State Supreme
Court.

The election has opened a rare and raw divide. There are awkward silences for
some who fear offending their neighbors (whose position they cannot be certain
of), and, for others, volleys of suspicion.

Wanda Kotas,  who pushed for the special election, said her family's cat, Mr.
Sippi, was killed by a pellet gun not long after her efforts, an act she
suspects is related. Kristin Ostrom, who has spoken  against the referendum,
said a rock was heaved through her front window, an old barbecue grill was
dumped at her doorstep, and, this week, an e-mail message arrived promising in
red letters to ''shed blood'' to take back the country. And Alfredo Velez, who
once worked at one of Fremont's meatpacking plants and now owns a Mexican
grocery, received an anonymous letter accusing him of harboring illegal
immigrants, and said someone screamed at him on these neatly kept streets: ''Go
back to Mexico!''

The Hispanic population, while growing, still makes up less than 10 percent of
Fremont, yet some say they blame illegal immigrants for what they see as a rise
in crime here, the loss of good jobs for local residents and a shift in the
culture.

Some complain about shoppers speaking Spanish at the Wal-Mart, businesses with
phone messages saying ''Press 1 for English,'' and the need for two interpreters
last fall at the annual ''kindergarten round-up'' where children meet their
teachers.

Perhaps these are ordinary growing pains for Midwestern cities like Fremont,
anchored by meatpacking plants with many immigrant workers, some of whom
residents here suspect of being in this country illegally.

But the struggle has taken an unusual turn. After Fremont's political leaders
rejected an ordinance intended to keep illegal immigrants out, residents fought
back and insisted, finally getting approval in the Nebraska Supreme Court to
take the matter straight to voters.

This is a legally complicated realm given the federal role in handling
immigration; a lawsuit is all but certain if it passes. In other places where
such immigration laws have been pondered (and often contested later), state
lawmakers and local governing bodies have usually made the call, not citizens by
referendum.

''In this very quiet little town where this hasn't been an issue, it's
uncomfortable,'' said Michelle Knapp, who opposes the anti-illegal immigrant law
but acknowledges that she has at times only whispered her view. ''You don't know
what people are listening.''

The battle began two years ago when a  City Council member suggested that the
city should take on illegal immigration. As in other towns, leaders here said
they were frustrated by what they viewed as a failure by federal authorities to
manage the problem.

By July 2008, a second hearing on the City Council's proposal drew such a crowd
that the meeting was moved to the high school auditorium (for the first time in
memory) and the large crowd (under the  watch of the police) voiced pointed
views on all sides. The City Council waived plans for another hearing  and
instead voted, 4 to 4. Donald B. Edwards, the longtime mayor, gave an emotional
speech, then voted no, to cheers and hoots.

''Everyone including myself is strongly against illegals,'' Mr. Edwards told the
crowd. ''That's not the issue.'' Every legal mind he consulted led him to
believe that immigration was a federal matter and that city action would lead to
costly litigation. ''I can't change the law.''

This 1850s-era railroad and farming town, about 30 miles northwest of Omaha,
included 165 Hispanic residents in 1990 by some estimates. The number is closer
to 2,000 now. No one really knows how many illegal immigrants live here, but
peoples' claims about statistics vary wildly.

Dean Skokan, the city attorney, who spoke on behalf of city officials who he
said were barred by statute from voicing opinions on city time regarding ballot
questions, says crime has risen over time. But he says he knows of no data
compiled here on crimes by ethnicity or national origin.

But that is little comfort to residents like Jerry Hart, a retired Internal
Revenue Service worker who recalls a time when Fremont's doors did not need
locks.

The area's meatpacking plants -- including Hormel, the largest employer and a
presence  since 1947 -- look different, he said.

''How can you be against following the law,'' said Mr. Hart, who spent months
helping to collect more than 4,000 signatures to put the question on the ballot.

If the population changes have shifted the way Fremont feels, so has the coming
anti-illegal-immigration referendum. Hispanic residents say they once felt
welcomed here -- or, at least, not noticed -- but the increasingly loud
political fight, they say, seems to have changed the tone.

''I know what they're thinking when they look at me: Am I legal? Am I illegal?''
said Luis Canahui, who came here from Guatemala. ''I can feel it.''

A woman who asked not to be identified because her legal status has run out grew
tearful at what Fremont had once felt like to her. ''I like this town, but this
is the place for my kids, not for me anymore,'' she said.

Opponents of the immigration law here nearly always cite practical
considerations -- the likely cost of litigation, above all -- as the reason to
reject it. One television spot, playing up the costs, shows a blank check signed
by ''Citizens of Fremont''  and a narrator's booming voice: ''Say no to needless
spending! Say no to cuts in community services!''

City officials have said the cost of fighting court challenges -- presumably,
claims that the law would improperly infringe on federal authority -- would
probably run into the millions. Laws in towns like Hazleton, Pa., and Farmers
Branch, Tex., remain in court, and other cities have, faced with legal fights,
repealed laws or dropped plans for them.

Fremont's proposal, which was written with help from an author of Arizona's new
anti-immigration law, would require Fremont businesses to use a federal
database, E-Verify, to check new employees' information, and landlords to rent
only to those who get a new city occupancy license (for $5) after turning over
information to the police.

Skeptics, like Les Leech, the president of the Fremont Beef Company, said plants
here already use E-Verify, but that does not stop those using stolen Social
Security numbers. In March, immigration officials arrested 17 workers from
Fremont Beef. ''This ordinance will not change the complexion of this county one
bit,'' Mr. Leech said, ''because E-Verify doesn't work.''

Oddly enough, the meatpacking plants, including Hormel, are just outside city
limits, and would not be subject to the new law.

Supporters say it does not matter. ''We have to start somewhere,'' said John
Wiegert, a resident. ''Hiding under your desk in a city office isn't going to
help.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Patriot Mural in Fremont, Neb., honors military veterans.
The city faces a divisive special election over illegal immigration.
 Yuliana Magana, center, with her daughter Ashley, 3, at a rally in Fremont
against a crackdown on illegal immigration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In California, Facing Illegal Immigration

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 578 words


In the closing days of the Republican primary in California, Meg Whitman vowed
to get tough on illegal immigrants, and in a radio commercial even brought out a
big gun, a former governor, Pete Wilson. He is known for his advocacy of
Proposition 187, a 1994 initiative that sought to deny public services to
illegal immigrants. It was blocked by a federal court, but remains a sore point
with Latino voters. Now, after winning the primary,  Ms. Whitman reveals her
opposition to the proposal in new Spanish-language television commercials, and
embraces concerns  dear to Latinos.

THE SCRIPT The radio ad in the primary, ''Tough as Nails,'' has Ms. Whitman
speaking, before Mr. Wilson jumps in.

Whitman: Don't be fooled by misleading ads, my position on immigration is
crystal clear. Illegal immigrants are just that, illegal. I am 100 percent
against amnesty for illegal immigrants. Period. As governor, I will crack down
on so-called sanctuary cities like San Francisco who thumb their nose at our
laws. Illegal immigrants should not expect benefits from the State of
California. No driver's license and no admission to state-funded institutions of
higher education. And I'll create an economic fence to crack down on employers
who break the law by using illegal labor.

Wilson: This is former Gov. Pete Wilson. I know how important it is to stop
illegal immigration, and I know Meg Whitman. Meg will be tough as nails on
illegal immigration. She'll fight to secure our border and go after sanctuary
cities. Please join me in supporting Meg Whitman for governor.

The TV ad, a ''Different Kind,'' (as translated by the campaign) plays over a
montage of images of a smiling, cheerful Ms. Whitman interacting with Latinos.

Announcer: Meg Whitman is a different kind of candidate. She is a business
leader ready to fix Sacramento, ready to create more jobs and better schools in
California. She respects our community. She is the Republican who opposes the
Arizona law and opposed Proposition 187.

She means real change. She has a specific plan for a new California. With more
jobs, better schools and less bureaucracy.

She includes all of us. Meet Meg Whitman. A different kind of candidate, and the
governor California needs.

ON THE SCREEN A montage of video of Ms. Whitman chatting and smiling with
Latinos.

ACCURACY It is a matter of dispute whether Ms. Whitman's position on illegal
immigration is ''crystal clear.'' The only thing clear is the ads were aimed at
different audiences. California already bars driver's licenses for illegal
immigrants, and prohibiting illegal immigrants from attending state-funded
colleges is likely to be a tough sell to the Democrat-controlled Legislature. As
for the new ad, Ms. Whitman did speak out against the new Arizona law, which
gives local police authority to seek the deportation of illegal immigrants, but
she did not mention that position in any primary ads. When Proposition 187 was
passed, Ms. Whitman was not living in California but she  said last year that
she would have voted against it.

SHELF LIFE The campaign of Jerry Brown, her Democratic opponent, is already
crying hypocrisy, but Ms. Whitman's camp says she has long reached out to Latino
voters. Winning them over is key; they are about one-fifth of the electorate and
tend to vote Democratic, so Ms. Whitman needs to capture a large share of that
vote to prevail. It is safe to say Mr. Wilson will probably not be appearing in
any ads aimed at them.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            June 23, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Requests Money to Add Security at Mexican Border

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD and MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 377 words


LOS ANGELES -- The Obama administration is asking Congress for money to expand
the Border Patrol by 1,000 agents, add scores of other federal law enforcement
officers and deploy two more aerial drones as part of   heightened security at
the Mexican border.

The request came in a letter on Tuesday from President Obama to the House
speaker, Nancy Pelosi, asking for $500 million in additional border security
spending to go with 1,200 National Guard troops Mr. Obama plans to send.

''This request responds to urgent and essential needs,'' Mr. Obama wrote without
elaborating, though administration officials have previously said that their
plans fit an 18-month effort to increase border security.

Mr. Obama is  following in the footsteps of President George W. Bush, who
likewise, in the face of a stalled effort to revamp federal immigration law,
came under pressure to increase security.

Although Obama administration officials have said the border is more secure than
it has ever been, Mr. Obama bowed to concerns from members of his own party as
well as Republicans and agreed last month to send in the National Guard and
increase spending on border security.

Concerns about drug smuggling and illegal immigration have emerged as potent
issues in Congressional midterm campaigns, particularly in Arizona, where a
rancher was killed in March in a crime with suspected links to drug smuggling.
In April, lawmakers there enacted a state law intended to deport illegal
immigrants.

The Justice Department plans to challenge the law in court, and on Tuesday the
Mexican government filed a friend-of-the-court brief supporting one of five
suits pending against the law, warning about potential discrimination against
its citizens.

The additional Border Patrol agents would give the agency 21,000 agents. Mr.
Obama is also asking for 160 additional Immigration and Customs Enforcement
agents and several teams of antismuggling agents from various agencies.

Representative Ann Kirkpatrick, an Arizona Democrat and member of the House
Homeland Security Committee, praised the additional resources but said they were
not enough.

''If Washington is truly serious about permanently strengthening our security,
it must go beyond this request,'' Ms. Kirkpatrick said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A National Guard unit patrolled at the United States-Mexican
border at Sasabe, Ariz. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D. FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 17, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona: Immigrant Deathsare On Pace To Hit Record

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING SOUTHWEST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 144 words


The number of deaths among illegal immigrants crossing the Arizona desert from
Mexico could reach a new monthly high, a county medical examiner said Friday.
Since July 1, the bodies of 40 illegal immigrants have been taken to the office
of Dr. Bruce Parks, the Pima County medical examiner. At that rate, Dr. Parks
said, the deaths could top the single-month record of 68 in July 2005. His
office began tracking such deaths in 2000. Dr. Parks said his office, which
handles immigrants' bodies from three counties, was currently storing about 250
bodies and had to start using a refrigerated truck because of the recent
increase. The authorities believe that the high number of deaths are likely due
to above-average and unrelenting heat in southern Arizona this month and tighter
border security that pushes immigrants to more remote, rugged and dangerous
terrain.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Caught on a Yacht, in a Web of Maritime Laws

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1141 words


Gaea Rich and her family were in full holiday mode aboard their yacht on the
Fourth of July as they motored from Stamford, Conn., across Long Island Sound
and into Oyster Bay, off the North Shore of Long Island.

The trip, with more than 15 relatives and friends, was supposed to be the high
point of a weekend family reunion. But a few hours into the cruise, after what
began as an apparently routine stop by a marine patrol of local and federal law
enforcement officials, two passengers -- a Guatemalan caterer hired for the day
and Ms. Rich's boyfriend, David Quinn, an Irishman who had worked for years as a
horse-carriage driver in Central Park -- were taken away on a police boat by
federal immigration officials. Both men were illegal immigrants; they now face
deportation.

The yacht had been caught in a web of laws, little known outside the maritime
community, that are meant to keep a tight leash on vessels that are registered
in foreign countries or have traveled in international waters. And the boarding
and interrogations on a pleasure craft came as quite a surprise to passengers.

''We couldn't believe it,'' recalled Ms. Rich, 28, a fashion designer for Ralph
Lauren. ''Everyone was just shocked.''

The boat is registered in the Caribbean nation of St. Vincent and the
Grenadines, and owned by Ms. Rich's uncle. He keeps the boat moored mostly in
American waters: Stamford in the summer and Florida in the winter.

Many American yacht owners register their boats in foreign countries, often for
tax purposes. That was her uncle's reason, said Ms. Rich, adding that her uncle
did not want to be interviewed or identified.

Federal maritime law requires that foreign-flagged vessels contact customs
officials when they arrive at American ports, even if arriving from another
American port. Immigration officials are permitted to board foreign-flagged
vessels anytime, said Officer John F. Saleh, a spokesman for United States
Customs and Border Protection. Coast Guard officials, who joined in the stop,
are allowed to board any vessel at any time in American waters.

Maritime laws and their enforcement have tightened since 9/11. In the past
several years, for example, the Coast Guard division on Staten Island -- which
patrols New York Harbor, the western half of Long Island Sound and the southern
Hudson River -- has stepped up its scrutiny of smaller foreign-flagged vessels,
said Charles Rowe, a spokesman for the Coast Guard in New York City.

Mr. Rowe said that under the program, ''Operation Small Fry,'' Coast Guard
officials, along with federal and local law enforcement personnel, have boarded
about 750 such boats a year, to enforce customs, immigration and maritime laws.

Several marina managers in the New York area said they had heard complaints from
exasperated owners and operators of foreign-flagged yachts about repeated
boardings and laborious permit regulations.

It is frustrating for those with foreign flags, said the manager of a luxury
marina in the Hamptons, who insisted on anonymity to avoid offending any of his
clients. But, he added, ''They really can't complain because the reason they're
foreign-flagged is to avoid paying taxes.''

The owners and operators of the largest yachts are well acquainted with the
rules and their enforcement, maritime experts said. ''These guys are prepared
for this stuff,'' said Lucy Reed, editor of The Triton, a monthly magazine read
largely by the captains and crews of private yachts. ''They know what they need
to have, for the most part, to cruise in U.S. waters.''

It was unclear whether Ms. Rich's uncle had been aware of the rules.

The July 4 incident began about 1:30 p.m. when a boat operated by the Nassau
County Police Department pulled alongside the 63-foot yacht as it entered Oyster
Bay. On the police vessel were customs and Coast Guard officers, Officer Saleh
said; he did not provide more details about the stop. The Nassau police said
they were assisting Customs and Border Protection and referred all inquiries to
that agency.

Ms. Rich said the officers seemed unfamiliar with the St. Vincent flag, ''and
wanted to see my uncle's cruising license.'' Immigration officials took one
catering worker, a Hispanic woman, to a room below deck and interviewed her for
about half an half before determining that she was in the United States legally,
Ms. Rich said.

The officers then asked all the other passengers -- some of them foreign
citizens with green cards or work visas -- for government-issued identification.
When Mr. Quinn and the catering worker were unable to produce proof that they
were in the country legally, the officers took them below deck, Ms. Rich said.

Mr. Quinn ''came up after 20 to 30 minutes and he said, 'I guess I'm going
home,' '' she recalled. ''And I said, 'You're joking, right?' '' Mr. Quinn's
expected deportation, Ms. Rich said, has severely complicated their budding
relationship. The romance began in late March when Ms. Rich spotted Mr. Quinn,
30, tending his horse and carriage on Central Park South, near her office. She
returned a few days later with a friend, and rented his carriage for a spin
around the park.

''We were the last ride of the day, and invited him to come up to a bar after
he'd finished stabling his horse,'' she recalled. ''It was a romantic night.''

Ms. Rich said she soon learned about Mr. Quinn's immigration status. He had
arrived in the United States in 2003, joining several siblings who had become
American citizens, and overstayed his tourist visa.

Mr. Quinn's brothers asked the Rev. Brian Jordan, a Franciscan priest and an
immigrant advocate, to help with the case. Father Jordan said he was indignant
that the two men had been detained, considering recent directives by Immigration
and Customs Enforcement giving priority to the apprehension of criminals.

''This is New York State,'' Father Jordan said, ''This is not Arizona.''

Federal immigration officials would not comment on the case. On Thursday, after
requests by his lawyer, Zachary Sanders, and lobbying of the Department of
Homeland Security by Father Jordan, Mr. Quinn was released for 45 days to
prepare for deportation to Ireland.

Mr. Quinn said in an interview on Monday that he was hoping to find a way to
remain in the United States. If unsuccessful, he said, he would accept the
deportation and try to return legally. ''I'm doing the best that I can,'' he
said.

He said that he was held in the same detention center, in Elizabeth, N.J., as
the catering worker, but that the worker was not granted a similar temporary
reprieve. (Neither Mr. Quinn nor Ms. Rich knew the worker's name.)

Mr. Quinn said that he had not considered trying to legalize his status through
marriage, as some immigrants do.

''I was waiting for the right woman,'' he said. ''And this is what happened to
me: a bit of bad luck. And I thought the Irish had the good luck.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gaea Rich and her boyfriend, David Quinn, an immigrant from
Ireland, were on board her uncle's yacht on Long Island Sound when federal
officials boarded and began checking papers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 29, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Arizona Morgue Grows Crowded

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1254 words


TUCSON -- Dr. Bruce Parks unzips a white body bag on a steel gurney and gingerly
lifts out a human skull and mandible, turning them over in his hands and
examining the few teeth still in their sockets.

The body bag, coated with dust, also contains a broken pelvis, a femur and a few
smaller bones found in the desert in June, along with a pair of white sneakers.

''These are people who are probably not going to be identified,'' said Dr.
Parks, the chief medical examiner for Pima County. There are eight other body
bags crowded on the gurney.

The Pima County morgue is running out of space as the number of Latin American
immigrants found dead in the deserts around Tucson has soared this year during a
heat wave.

The rise in deaths comes as Arizona is embroiled in a bitter legal battle over a
new law intended to discourage illegal immigrants from settling here by making
it a state crime for them to live or seek work.

But the law has not kept the immigrants from trying to cross hundreds of miles
of desert on foot in record-breaking heat. The bodies of 57 border crossers have
been brought in during July so far, putting it on track to be the worst month
for such deaths in the last five years.

Since the first of the year, more than 150 people suspected of being illegal
immigrants have been found dead, well above the 107 discovered during the same
period in each of the last two years. The sudden spike in deaths has overwhelmed
investigators and pathologists at the Pima County Medical Examiner's Office. Two
weeks ago, Dr. Parks was forced to bring in a refrigerated truck to store the
remains of two dozen people because the building's two units were full.

''We can store about 200 full-sized individuals, but we have over 300 people
here now, and most of those are border crossers,'' Dr. Parks said. ''We keep
hoping we have seen the worst of this, of these migration deaths. Yet we still
see a lot of remains.''

The increase in deaths has happened despite many signs that the number of
immigrants crossing the border illegally has dropped in recent years. The number
of people caught trying to sneak across the frontier without a visa has fallen
in each of the last five years and stands at about half of the record 616,000
arrested in 2000.

Not only has the economic downturn in the United States eliminated many of the
jobs that used to lure immigrants, human rights groups say, but also the federal
government has stepped up efforts to stop the underground railroad of migrants,
building mammoth fences in several border towns and flooding the region with
hundreds of new Border Patrol agents equipped with high-tech surveillance tools.

These tougher enforcement measures have pushed smugglers and illegal immigrants
to take their chances on isolated trails through the deserts and mountains of
southern Arizona, where they must sometimes walk for three or four days before
reaching a road.

''As we gain more control, the smugglers are taking people out to even more
remote areas,'' said Omar Candelaria, the special operations supervisor for the
Border Patrol's Tucson Sector. ''They have further to walk and they are less
prepared for the journey, and they don't make it.''

Mr. Candelaria said the surge in discoveries of bodies this year might also owe
something to increased patrols. He noted that some of the remains found this
year belong to people who died in previous years. But Dr. Parks said that could
not account for the entire increase this year. Indeed, the majority of bodies
brought in during July, Dr. Parks said, were dead less than a week.

Human rights groups say it is the government's sustained crackdown on human
smuggling that has led to more deaths.

''The more that you militarize the border, the more you push the migrant flows
into more isolated and desolate areas, and people hurt or injured are just left
behind,'' said Kat Rodriguez, a spokeswoman for the Coalicion de Derechos
Humanos in Tucson.

At the medical examiner's office in Tucson, Dr. Park's team of five
investigators, six pathologists and one forensic anthropologist face an enormous
backlog of more than 150 unidentified remains, with one case going back as far
as 2003.

Every day, they labor to match remains with descriptions provided by people who
have called their office to report a missing relative, or with reports collected
by human rights groups and by Mexican authorities.

Since 2000, Dr. Park's office has handled more than 1,700 border-crossing cases,
and officials here have managed to confirm the identities of about 1,050 of the
remains.

Investigators sift through the things the dead carried for clues -- Mexican
voter registration cards, telephone numbers scrawled on scraps of paper,
jewelry, rosaries, family photographs. Often there is precious little to go on.

''We had one gentleman who came in as bones, but around his wrist there was a
bracelet from a Mexican Hospital that had his picture,'' said David Valenzuela,
one of the investigators.

If no documents are found, the task becomes harder. Many of the deceased
immigrants were too poor to have visited doctors or dentists on a regular basis,
so dental or medical records may not exist. Sometimes, a family photograph of
the deceased smiling widely is all investigators have to document dental work.

On a recent morning, Bruce Anderson, the forensic anthropologist in the office,
was examining the skeleton of an adolescent boy, whose age was somewhere between
14 and 17. His mummified remains were found on the Tohono O'odham Indian
Reservation west of Tucson on July 15. The only lead to his identity was a
missing front tooth and the neighboring teeth crowded together in the space.

Dr. Anderson called the Coalicion de Derechos Humanos, who had a report of a
13-year-old who had been reported missing this year after crossing the border
near Sonoyta, Mexico.

The charity immediately contacted the boy's family to see if he had lost a
permanent tooth. Dr. Anderson was still waiting for a reply.

The process takes time, and remains keep piling up. On Monday, Mr. Anderson
faced a backlog of 14 new skeletons, in addition to the 40 active cases he is
investigating, he said. ''One person can't keep up with this load,'' he said.

The pathologists are also under strain. One day last week, Dr. Cynthia
Porterfield did five autopsies, on remains of border crossers who died in the
desert.

Dr. Porterfield was able to identify one: Jesse Palma Valenzuela, 30, who died
on July 12. Three of his travel companions had tried to carry his body back to
Mexico but became tired and abandoned him, wrapped in a blanket and positioned
off the ground in a tree to keep animals from eating him. Then they crossed back
into Mexico and notified the Border Patrol.

Agents discovered Mr. Valenzuela's body on July 17, right where his friends said
it would be, about two-and-a-half miles east of Lukeville, Ariz., not far from
the border. Though decomposed, he was still recognizable.

''He's got quite a few tattoos,'' Dr. Porterfield said. ''It is how the family
ID'd him.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Bruce Parks, the chief medical examiner for Pima County,
looked over an unidentified skull. At left, personal belongings of border
crossers found in the desert. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 9, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Administration Spares Students In Deportations

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words


The Obama administration, while deporting a record number of immigrants
convicted of crimes, is sparing one group of illegal immigrants from expulsion:
students who came to the United States without papers when they were children.

In case after case where immigrant students were identified by federal agents as
being in the country illegally, the students were released from detention and
their deportations were suspended or canceled, lawyers and immigrant advocates
said. Officials have even declined to deport students who openly declared their
illegal status in public protests.

The students who have been allowed to remain are among more than 700,000 illegal
immigrants who would be eligible for legal status under a bill before Congress
specifically for high school graduates who came to the United States before they
were 16. Department of Homeland Security officials said they had made no formal
change of policy to permit those students to stay. But they said they had other,
more pressing deportation priorities.

''In a world of limited resources, our time is better spent on someone who is
here unlawfully and is committing crimes in the neighborhood,'' John Morton, the
head of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in an interview. ''As opposed
to someone who came to this country as a juvenile and spent the vast majority of
their life here.''

Still, Republicans say the authorities should pursue all immigrants who are here
illegally.

''The administration appears to want to pick and choose what laws they will
follow and which ones they don't,'' said Representative Brian P. Bilbray,
Republican of California, who is chairman of a House immigration caucus. ''They
are trying to legislate from the White House,'' he said.

The administration is debating how to handle immigration now that the chances
for a broad overhaul that President Obama supports have faded for this year.

The issue of illegal immigrant students has become pressing because young
immigrants have staged increasingly frequent and defiant protests to demand
passage this year of the piece of the overhaul that would benefit them.

Lawmakers who support that legislation have asked the administration to halt
student deportations until Congress takes it up. But most Republicans are
opposed to any action that would weaken enforcement against illegal immigration.

An internal Homeland Security memorandum, released last month by Senator Charles
E. Grassley of Iowa, set off a furor among his fellow Republicans because it
showed immigration officials weighing steps they could take without
Congressional approval to give legal status to some illegal immigrants --
including suspending deportations of students.

The moratorium had been requested by Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the
second-highest-ranking Democrat in the Senate, and Senator Richard G. Lugar,
Republican of Indiana, the leading sponsors of the student legislation, called
the Dream Act.

But a White House official said that the administration had decided against the
moratorium, preferring to push for the student bill, which could grant legal
status to more than 700,000 young immigrants here illegally.

''Legislation does far more for Dream Act students than deferring deportations
would, in that it puts them on a path to citizenship,'' said the official, who
requested anonymity to discuss an internal policy debate.

Instead of a general moratorium, immigration authorities appear to be acting
case by case to hold up deportations of young immigrants.

''We have not had a single student whose case we handled who has been
deported,'' said Juan Escalante, a spokesman for the Dream Is Coming, an
organization that has waged petition campaigns and sit-ins to stop student
deportations. ''Obviously, there is some sort of pattern there in the fact they
are not deporting students.''

According to figures from the immigration enforcement agency, known as ICE, the
Obama administration has accelerated the pace of deportations over all. In 2009,
the authorities deported 389,834 people, about 20,000 more than in 2008, the
final year of the Bush administration.

Last year, Mr. Morton announced the agency's new priorities, directing agents to
focus on capturing immigrant criminals. In the past 10 months, ICE has deported
142,526 immigrants convicted of crimes, a record number, the figures show.

At the same time, deportations of immigrants with civil violations, but no
crimes, dropped by 24 percent. (Under immigration law, being in the United
States without legal status is a civil violation, not a crime.)

The figures confirm ''an enormous shift in targeting toward criminals,'' said
Susan B. Long, co-director of the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse at
Syracuse University, which analyzes federal law enforcement data.

The vast majority of students who are illegal immigrants have clean criminal
records, and they would have to keep it that way to qualify to become legal
under the Dream Act. To meet its terms, immigrants must also have graduated from
high school and lived in the United States for at least five years, and they
must complete two years of college or military service.

Last month, the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group in
Washington, estimated that 726,000 young immigrants would be immediately
eligible for legal status under the Dream Act, a big increase over earlier
estimates.

Lawmakers from both parties say the student bill draws wider support than the
broader overhaul -- but still not enough to make it likely to pass before the
election. Many young immigrants were brought to the United States illegally as
small children by their parents. Often they learn of their illegal status only
years later, when they are old enough to apply for a driver's license or to
attend college.

Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said in recent days that he
was willing to bring up the Dream Act separately, but that he did not have the
60 votes required to bring it to the floor.

Some students, after years of hiding, have concluded that it may now be safer
for them to come out in the open about their illegal status. Immigration
authorities have appeared to respond to the students' public campaigns, student
leaders said.

''What we have seen is it is better to be out there,'' said Carlos Saavedra,
national coordinator of the United We Dream network, which links dozens of
immigrant student groups from around the country.

On Thursday, after phone calls and petitions from more than 50 local student
groups, immigration authorities deferred for one year the deportation of Marlen
Moreno, a Mexican immigrant living in Arizona who has two children who are
American citizens and who would qualify to become legal under the Dream Act.

Last month, students held a weeklong protest in Washington that ended with a
mock graduation ceremony on Capitol Hill, where hundreds of immigrants wearing
caps and gowns declared their illegal status.

Immigration agents have taken no action against 21 immigrant students who were
arrested on July 20 by the Capitol Police in sit-in protests in Senate offices,
according to David Bennion, their immigration lawyer. Several were detained in
the offices of Senator Reid and Senator John McCain of Arizona, a Republican.

Earlier in the summer, students campaigned on behalf of Eric Balderas, a
19-year-old Mexican-born biology major at Harvard who was arrested by
immigration agents in San Antonio in June when he was about to fly back to
Cambridge after visiting his mother. With Harvard officials and Senator Durbin
also weighing in, ICE deferred his deportation indefinitely.

ICE has not held up deportations of young immigrants who have committed more
serious crimes or were previously deported.

Two immigrants who declared their illegal status during a sit-in in May in the
offices of Mr. McCain in Tucson -- Mohammad Abdollahi, 24, born in Iran, and
Yahaira Carrillo, 25, born in Mexico -- were briefly detained by ICE. But the
agency has not filed charges against them in immigration court that would
advance their deportations, their lawyer, Margo Cowan, said last week.

Ms. Carrillo, who has returned to her home in Kansas City, Mo., said she felt
relieved after she went public with her illegal status. Now a student at
Rockhurst University she has been living in the United States since she was 7.

''I don't have to hide,'' she said. ''I don't have to make excuses as to why I
can't take certain jobs or scholarships. What is the worst that can happen to me
now? I'm already in deportation proceedings.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Tania Unzueta, Lizbeth Mateo, Yahaira Carrillo,
Mohammad Abdollahi and Raul Alcaraz in a protest in Tucson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Prime Number

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 111 words


8: The percentage of babies born in the United States in 2008 who had at least
one parent who was an illegal immigrant, according to a study published last
week by the Pew Hispanic Center. The study also found that 80 percent of mothers
who were illegal aliens had been in the country for more than a year, a
statistic that seemed at odds with a recent assertion by Senator Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina, that many illegal immigrants ''come here to drop a
child'' and immediately leave. Mr. Graham has stirred controversy by proposing a
reconsideration of the 14th Amendment, long interpreted as granting citizenship
to anyone born in the United States.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 16, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Taking Their Fight On Illegal Immigrants To the Arizona Border

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 664 words


HEREFORD, Ariz. -- No migrant would have dared cross from Mexico into this
particular stretch of Arizona on Sunday.

Hundreds of Tea Party activists converged on the border fence here in what is
typically a desolate area popular with traffickers to rally for conservative
political candidates and to denounce what they called lax federal enforcement of
immigration laws. The rally brought a significant law enforcement presence as
well as numerous private patrols by advocates of a more secure border.

But rallies, even daylong ones, are no way to seal the border. The Obama
administration insists that its statistics show that significant financing
increases in the federal Border Patrol have helped bring down crime at the
border and make the smuggling of immigrants and drugs harder than ever.

But the activists who gathered Sunday had a decidedly different take. The
border, in their view, is still far too easy to get across and has become so
dangerous that some of them brought their sidearms for protection. Organizers
urged participants to leave rifles in their cars.

''Instead of finding bugs in our beds, we're finding home invaders,'' said Tony
Venuti, a Tucson radio host who attached a huge sign to the fence that told
immigrants to head to Los Angeles, where they will be more welcome, and even
offered directions for getting there.

Addressing the crowd, Sheriff Joe Arpaio, who conducts controversial sweeps in
immigrant neighborhoods in Phoenix and other parts of Maricopa County, said the
problem could be solved if the Border Patrol was given permission to track down
migrants on the Mexican side before they crossed.

''If I had all the national TV here, I'd probably climb the fence to show you
how easy it is,'' Sheriff Arpaio said from the rally's stage, a flag with the
words ''Don't Tread on Me'' flapping behind him.

Also among the speakers was Russell Pearce, the state senator who sponsored
Arizona's controversial immigration law known as 1070, part of which was blocked
by a federal judge last month.

The event was monitored on the Mexican side. A rally participant spotted a group
of people in the rugged terrain in Mexico and alerted Border Patrol officers,
who identified them with binoculars as members of Grupo Beta, a Mexican agency
that aids migrants in distress.

Sheriff Larry A. Dever of Cochise County, where the event was held, said the
area was a hotspot for traffickers.

''We're right at the point of the spear where human and dope smuggling takes
place,'' Sheriff Dever said. ''These mountains are a beehive of activity.''

He said he had no doubt that migrants and drug smugglers were using lookouts to
keep track of the rally.

''They know this rally is going on,'' he said. ''They are not fools. They're
experts. They probably know more about this than we do standing here.''

J. D. Hayworth, who is challenging Senator John McCain in the Republican primary
to be held later this month, used the event to question Mr. McCain's commitment
to fighting illegal immigration. Trying to outflank Mr. Hayworth, Mr. McCain has
made several stops in the border region recently.

The Obama administration has similarly started a defense of its border policies
in recent days.

''Is there more work to be done? Absolutely. Is the problem a significant one, a
challenging one for the nation? Absolutely,'' John T. Morton, director of
federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said in Phoenix last week, vowing
that his agency was committed to securing the border.

The rally was held on private land, not far from where a popular Arizona rancher
died in late March in a killing that helped fuel the immigration debate in the
state.

Cindy Kolb, a border activist who lives nearby, yelled out through the thick
metal slates in the border fence, which had been decorated on the American side
with tiny flags, ''Hey, don't come over here anymore.''

She added: ''We don't like illegals hiding under bushes when our kids wait for
the school bus. This border needs to be secure.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tea Party activists gathered at the border fence in Hereford,
Ariz., to rally for political candidates, including J. D. Hayworth, bottom, and
denounce what they called lax enforcement of immigration laws. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ailing and Illegal, but Now Hopeful

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK and CATRIN EINHORN; Kevin Sack reported from Atlanta, and
Catrin Einhorn from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 899 words


ATLANTA -- Thirty-eight end-stage renal patients, most of them illegal
immigrants, would receive the dialysis they need to stay alive at no cost under
a rough agreement brokered Tuesday among local dialysis providers and Atlanta's
safety-net hospital, Grady Memorial.

The deal, if completed, would end a yearlong impasse that has come to symbolize
the health care plight of the country's uninsured immigrants and the
taxpayer-supported hospitals that end up caring for them. The problem remains
unaddressed by the new health care law, which maintains the federal ban on
government health insurance for illegal immigrants.

Grady, which receives direct appropriations from Fulton and DeKalb Counties,
ultimately agreed on Tuesday to help pay for continuing dialysis for most of the
immigrants. Others would be distributed among local dialysis providers as
charity cases.

Last fall, Grady's new management closed its money-losing outpatient dialysis
clinic in a move intended to demonstrate fiscal toughness to the city's
philanthropic community. The closing displaced about 60 uninsured illegal
immigrants who depended on free thrice-weekly treatments at the clinic to
survive.

Illegal immigrants, and legal immigrants newly in the country, are not eligible
for Medicare, the federal program that covers most dialysis costs for American
citizens with end-stage renal disease.

Grady volunteered to transport the patients to other states or their home
countries and pay for three months of treatment. Thirteen accepted the offer.
But in response to a patient lawsuit and news media scrutiny, the hospital
eventually contracted with a commercial dialysis provider to treat the others in
Atlanta for one transitional year.

That contract, with Fresenius Medical Services, expired on Tuesday.

Vital details of the agreement remain to be negotiated, including precisely how
the patients will be distributed, how much Grady will pay and whether the
arrangement will extend for patients' lifetimes. But all parties said after
meeting Tuesday morning that they were optimistic that they would reach an
understanding and that patients would see no lapse in treatment.

''That would make me feel real happy because continuing with my dialysis, I need
it to live,'' said Ignacio Godinez Lopez, 24, who crossed into the United States
illegally as a teenager and has been treated at Grady's expense for four years.
''I'm young, and without dialysis it would be taking my life.''

The patients in Atlanta have gambled that American generosity, even at a time of
hostility toward illegal immigrants, would prove a surer bet than uncertain care
in their home countries. Several said that the fates of those who returned home
had reinforced their fears about leaving Atlanta.

Five of the 13 patients who left for Mexico with assistance from Grady or the
Mexican government have died, according to Matt Gove, a Grady senior vice
president. Most died while still receiving dialysis, although not always as
regularly as recommended.

One patient, Fidelia Perez Garcia, 32, apparently succumbed in April to
complications from renal failure after running out of Grady-sponsored treatments
in Mexico. Patients with end-stage renal disease can die in as little as two
weeks without dialysis, which filters toxins from their blood.

Ms. Perez's mother, Graciela Garcia Padilla, said by telephone that her family
was able to raise money for three additional dialysis sessions, at a cost of
about $100 each. Ms. Perez then went 12 days without dialysis and persuaded a
hospital to treat her only when she was close to death, Ms. Garcia said.

''They sent her to me just to die,'' Ms. Garcia said. ''Here, they let people
die.''

At the same time, regular treatment in Atlanta has not guaranteed survival. Four
of the 45 patients who were receiving dialysis at Fresenius clinics have also
died, Mr. Gove said.

Nationally, about one in five dialysis patients die within a year of starting
treatment, and about two in three die within five years, according to government
figures.

The hospital, which has recently begun a financial turnaround after years of
multimillion-dollar losses, has spent more than $2 million on repatriation and
dialysis since closing its clinic, Mr. Gove said. As the expiration of Grady's
contract with Fresenius loomed, each sought to shift responsibility to the
other. Larry L. Johnson, a DeKalb County commissioner who prodded and mediated
the negotiations, said there was movement only when Grady agreed to contribute
financially to the patients' care.

Under the broad outlines of the agreement provided by Mr. Johnson and other
participants, Fresenius, DaVita Inc. and Emory University's health system would
each treat a small number of patients -- most likely three to five -- as charity
cases. Fresenius would care for the rest with financial assistance from Grady.

Fresenius and DaVita are the country's largest commercial dialysis providers,
with combined net income of more than $1.3 billion last year.

The agreement would not address the broader concern of how to care for illegal
immigrants in the region who have developed renal disease since the Grady
clinic's closing, or those who will do so in the future. At the moment, their
only option may be to wait until they are in distress and then visit hospital
emergency rooms, which are required by law to provide dialysis to patients who
are deemed in serious jeopardy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Displaced patients to be covered by a new agreement met at an
Atlanta-area church. But the deal will be too late for Fidelia Perez Garcia,
left, who left for Mexico and died. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Finds the Number Of Illegal Immigrants Has Fallen to 11.1 Million

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 834 words


The number of illegal immigrants in the United States, after peaking at 12
million in 2007, fell to about 11.1 million in 2009, the first clear decline in
two decades, according to a report published Wednesday by the Pew Hispanic
Center.

The reduction came primarily from decreases among illegal immigrants from Latin
American countries other than Mexico, the report found. The number of Mexicans
living in the United States without legal immigration status did not change
significantly from 2007 to 2009. Some seven million Mexicans make up about 60
percent of all illegal immigrants, still by far the largest national group, the
Pew Center said.

The report is based on census data from March 2009, the most recent census
sample that is detailed enough for Pew demographers to estimate the
statistically elusive population of illegal immigrants. The figures show that
more than a year of recession in the American economy, coupled with intensifying
immigration enforcement at the Southwest border and in workplaces around the
country, brought a reduction of at least 900,000 illegal immigrants.

But the figure that may be most sobering to all sides in the increasingly
contentious immigration debate is the estimate that more than 11 million illegal
immigrants remain here. The Pew report shows that despite myriad pressures,
there was no mass exodus of those immigrants to their home countries, especially
not to Mexico.

Instead, the report confirms earlier findings by American and Mexican
demographers that the flow of Mexicans coming in to the United States illegally
to look for work had slowed sharply.

While the hottest immigration debate has taken place in Arizona over the last
two years, that was not the state with the largest decrease in illegal
immigrants from 2007 to 2009, according to the Pew report.

Florida, Virginia and Nevada showed the steepest declines -- three states that
saw booms followed by busts in home construction, an industry that attracts
illegal immigrant workers.

The Pew Hispanic Center is a nonpartisan research organization in Washington
that does not advocate political positions on immigration. The report was
written by Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer, and D'Vera Cohn, senior writer
at the center. It does not try to weigh the respective roles of immigration
enforcement and of economic factors like high unemployment in the falling
numbers of unauthorized immigrants -- the term the report uses for foreign-born
residents who do not have some form of legal immigration status.

The Pew report covers the first year and a half of the Great Recession, which
economists say began in late 2007. It also covers a period of intensified
immigration enforcement operations, which were initiated by the Bush
administration and have continued, with some different tactics, under President
Obama.

Other researchers said the Pew figures on illegal immigrants were consistent
with estimates by the Department of Homeland Security, with previously reported
trends in census data and with figures from the Mexican census agency. Pia M.
Orrenius, senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said that
Mexican census data showed a 67 percent decline in the outflow of migrants from
2006 to 2009, while showing no great increase in Mexicans returning home.

''They are settled here,'' Ms. Orrenius said. ''It is going to take more than a
business cycle for them to move back to Mexico.''

She also said that federal enforcement had been concentrated at the border.
''Our enforcement policies are targeted toward stopping inflows,'' Ms. Orrenius
said.

As the border has become harder to cross, the cost of hiring smugglers has
soared in recent years, while far fewer jobs await migrants in the United
States. Mr. Passel, the Pew demographer, said, ''The cost of getting in compared
to the payoff from employment is changing the decisions of many potential
migrants.''

The illegal immigrant population, after growing rapidly for years, has fallen to
2005 levels, according to the Pew report. In 2000, there were 8.4 million
illegal immigrants in the country. In 2009, about 28 percent of 39.4 million
foreign-born people in the United States were illegal immigrants, according to
the Pew report; the rest were legal immigrants and naturalized citizens. About
three-quarters of illegal immigrants are Hispanic, Pew found.

The Pew report does not explain why the numbers of immigrants from Central and
South America and the Caribbean fell more sharply, but it finds that immigrants
who are returning to those countries ''may have increased.''

Demographers said those migrants were more likely to be first generation, with
less money, thinner support networks in this country, and far less experience
than Mexicans have with the increasingly perilous illegal border crossing.

The passage across Mexico has also become very dangerous. Last month, the bodies
of 72 migrants were discovered in Tamaulipas, in northern Mexico, and Mexican
authorities said they were killed by drug traffickers.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHART: A Population Shift: While the population of illegal immigrants
from Mexico has leveled off, the number from the Caribbean, Central America and
South America decreased by 22 percent from 2007 to 2009. (Source: Pew Hispanic
Center)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 5, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border News

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 495 words


A nonpartisan study on illegal immigrants in the United States came out
Wednesday. Here is the gist: Unauthorized immigration peaked three years ago,
and is sharply receding. It is declining all over, but especially in
housing-bust states like Florida, Nevada and Virginia.

Harsher enforcement probably has something to do with it. But so does the Great
Recession, and while the total population of illegal immigrants has fallen
somewhat, to about 11 million, there is no exodus. They are not flooding in as
much, but they are not flooding out.

These striking findings, from the Pew Hispanic Center, suggest that it is
probably time to focus on assimilating the people who are here and show no signs
of leaving. It also argues for fixing immigration, so that when the economy
roars to life again, we will be ready to handle a new influx that is lawful,
orderly and above-ground.

But first we would have to get over our fixation on the southern border, a hard
thing to expect at a time when anxieties there have erupted into a raging panic
that gladdens the hearts of politicians on the right.

This is the year that Congress passed in a flash a $600 million border-security
bill, which President Obama immediately signed. The homeland security secretary
just announced that Predator drones, our eyes in the sky above Afghanistan, were
guarding the line from San Diego to Brownsville, too.

It isn't just the feds. Gov. Jan Brewer of Arizona signed the country's harshest
anti-immigrant bill and went to the White House to lecture the president about
border control. She raised the emotional pitch with lurid stories of beheadings
in the desert. Her fellow Arizona politicians said the next step was to rewrite
state laws and the Constitution to keep pregnant aliens from coming over to
spawn terrorist babies on our soil. Senator John McCain won a tough primary by
creating yet another new, tougher version of himself, who promised to complete
the danged fence.

These Arizonans are selling a vision of border chaos and violence disconnected
from reality. If it is about drug wars, someone tell the mayors and the sheriffs
of border cities, where violent crime is down. Some of America's safest cities
are in border states. Desert decapitators are a myth, unless Governor Brewer,
who ducked questions about them last week, has evidence she is not sharing.

The border crackdown has been therapy for a nation spooked. But for solving the
real problems of immigration, not so much. The terror babies are a fiction, but
millions of unauthorized workers are not. At some point the economy will
recover. The demand for immigrant labor will heat up, and illegal crossings will
rise. Companies will go begging for legal workers. The drones and the boots and
the fences will deter many new migrants, but not all. Eleven million people will
still be living and working outside the law.

And the country will learn that it spent billions at the border to solve a
problem a sealed border won't fix.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Study Questions Impact of Amendment

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
16

LENGTH: 150 words


A repeal of the Fourteenth Amendment, which guarantees citizenship to anyone
born in the United States, would cause big increases in the population of
illegal immigrants in the country, said a report published Wednesday by the
Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group. Using statistical
projections, the report showed that the number of illegal immigrants could grow
by 2020 to 14 million -- about 3 million over the current estimate of 11.1
million -- if citizenship were denied to children born in the United States who
have at least one parent who is an illegal immigrant. By 2050, the population
could reach 24 million, according to the projection, by Jennifer Van Hook, a
professor of demography at Pennsylvania State University. Proponents of the
repeal have argued that it would reduce the number of illegal immigrants by
discouraging them from coming to this country to give birth.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Court Rejects A City's Efforts To Restrict Immigrants

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 740 words


A federal appeals court on Thursday upheld a lower-court ruling striking down
ordinances adopted by the City of Hazleton, Pa., that banned illegal immigrants
from renting housing or being employed there.

The 188-page ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
in Philadelphia, is the broadest statement by a court to date on the vexing
question of how much authority states and towns have to act on immigration
matters that are normally the purview of the federal government, constitutional
lawyers said.

The Hazleton ordinances, which were passed in 2006 and 2007, have served as
models for states and towns across the country seeking to crack down on illegal
immigrants.

The tug-of-war over immigration between the federal government and some states
and towns has generated political tensions in many places, and led the Obama
administration to sue Arizona over a particularly tough law enacted there in
April. A federal judge has stayed central provisions of the Arizona law while
the case is heard.

The appeals court in Pennsylvania found that Hazleton had clearly overstepped
its bounds.

''It is of course not our job to sit in judgment of whether state and local
frustration about federal immigration policy is warranted,'' the judges wrote.
''We are, however, required to intervene when states and localities directly
undermine the federal objectives embodied in statutes enacted by Congress.''

Hazleton ''has attempted to usurp authority the Constitution has placed beyond
the vicissitudes of local governments,'' the panel of three judges concluded
unanimously.

Lou Barletta, the mayor of Hazleton, who pressed for the ordinances to
discourage illegal immigrants from living there, said the city would appeal to
the Supreme Court. ''This ruling is a loss for Hazleton and its legal
residents,'' Mr. Barletta said. ''It is also a blow to the rights of the legal
immigrants who choose to call Hazleton their home.''

Lawyers for the civil liberties groups that brought the suit said the ruling
confirmed warnings from many Latino organizations that local immigration laws
could lead to discrimination.

''This case was brought by Latinos who felt they were targets and the purpose
was to drive them out of Hazleton,'' said Cesar A. Perales, president of
LatinoJustice PRLDEF, one of those groups. ''The court recognizes that this
could be an effect of the law. It is supporting what Latinos have been saying
all over the country.''

The Hazleton ordinances would allow the city to suspend the business licenses of
employers who knowingly hired illegal immigrants. Landlords who rented to
immigrants without legal status could be accused of harboring, and their rental
permits suspended.

A federal district judge, James M. Munley, struck down the ordinances in July
2007.

Hazleton's law, the appeals judges found, ''creates the exact situation that
Congress feared: a system under which employers might quite rationally choose to
err on the side of discriminating against job applicants who they perceive to be
foreign.''

Peter J. Spiro, a law professor at Temple University in Philadelphia, said:
''The court is saying that immigration is something the federal government has
given careful consideration, and the result is a very intricate federal regime.
The local measures interfered with that regime, and that's not O.K.''

Kris Kobach, a constitutional lawyer who was an author of the Hazleton
ordinances and a lead lawyer defending them on appeal, said the ruling ''places
the Third Circuit on the extreme end of these issues.'' The court's argument was
''very flimsy,'' he said, because there was no ''unmistakable act of Congress''
that bans local governments from adopting measures like Hazleton's.

The Supreme Court agreed earlier this year to hear a case challenging a law
Arizona adopted in 2007 that requires employers to verify the legal immigration
status of new hires and cancels business permits of those who repeatedly hire
illegal immigrants. The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit had
allowed that law to go forward, but the Third Circuit judges directly rejected
many points in the Ninth Circuit opinion.

Mr. Spiro said that as immigration cases made their way to the Supreme Court,
the Third Circuit decision would bolster arguments by Latino and immigrant
groups that local laws are unconstitutional. ''Winning this battle makes it more
likely they will win the war in the courts,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ohio: Abercrombie & Fitch Fined For Immigration Violation

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING MIDWEST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 87 words


A federal agency is issuing a $1 million fine against Abercrombie & Fitch over
the way the clothing retailer kept track of the employment eligibility of its
workers. United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement said Tuesday that the
fine stemmed from an inspection of Abercrombie's stores in Michigan. The agency
says it found nothing to indicate that the company, based in New Albany, Ohio,
knowingly hired illegal immigrants. Investigators say Abercrombie has taken
steps to correct its immigration compliance program.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 1, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Questions on Ex-Housekeeper Emerge for a Candidate

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Rebecca Cathcart contributed reporting.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 512 words


LOS ANGELES -- In many ways, it had the makings of the kind of classic
late-campaign political dust-up that happens so regularly in high-profile
California campaigns: the celebrity lawyer, the illegal immigrant, a welter of
conflicting allegations and conspiracy charges, a candidate willing to take a
lie-detector test and the scene of reporters clustered in a swanky lawyer's
office overlooking the Hollywood Hills. News conferences were streamed live on
TMZ.com, the scandal-chasing Hollywood Web site that has become a force in
politics and celebrity in this town.

In this case, though, it is a potentially problematic episode for Meg Whitman,
the Republican who has broken spending records trying to become governor, and
still has found herself tied in polls with her Democratic opponent, Jerry Brown,
the state attorney general.

In a year in which immigration has become a hot and complicated issue,
particularly in this state, Ms. Whitman found herself trying to explain how she
had employed an illegal immigrant as a housekeeper for nine years, something she
said she learned only when the housekeeper confessed last year and was fired.

The development -- which Ms. Whitman described as a smear by her opponents --
came in the midst of a campaign in which she has struggled to be sufficiently
tough on illegal immigration to appeal to conservative Republicans without
alienating independents and Hispanics who are critical to any winning electoral
calculation here. A poll in The Los Angeles Times last week found that she was
struggling against Mr. Brown for support among Latino voters.

Ms. Whitman, responding to a question at a news conference Thursday in Santa
Monica, said she was prepared to take a lie-detector test to prove that she did
not know that her Mexican housekeeper, Nicandra Diaz Santillan, was an illegal
immigrant until Ms. Diaz Santillan told her in June 2009, six months after her
campaign began.

''I can not tell you how stunned we were when Nicky told us she was illegal,''
she said. Ms. Whitman said she knew nothing of a letter sent to her home by the
Social Security Administration saying that the Social Security number on file
did not match with the name of her housekeeper. But just a few hours after Ms.
Whitman spoke, Ms. Diaz Santillan appeared at her own news conference with a
celebrity lawyer, Gloria Allred, to produce the April 22, 2003, letter, with
what she asserted was handwriting on it from Ms. Whitman's husband, Dr. Griffith
Harsh. The document was partly filled out, with a note scribbled at the bottom:
''Nicky. Please check this. Thanks.''

Ms. Allred asserted that this was proof that the couple had at least an
indication that they were employing an illegal immigrant. A few hours later, the
Whitman camp said Dr. Harsh had perhaps received such a letter but,
understandably, had forgotten it after all these years.

Ms. Whitman's advisers disputed the way Ms. Allred characterized the letter,
saying it was easy to read as nothing more than a routine request from the
Social Security Administration to resolve a discrepancy.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Meg Whitman, the Republican candidate for governor of
California, took questions on Thursday about a familiar topic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Growing Anti-Immigrant Sentiments in an Unlikely State

BYLINE: By A. G. SULZBERGER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1059 words


CRETE, Neb. -- Nebraska may appear to be an unlikely setting for swelling
anti-immigrant sentiment.

This agricultural hub is far removed from any border. It has long been more
preoccupied with bolstering its population than keeping people out. And
immigrants, legal and otherwise, have been fixtures for years in the fields and
meatpacking plants here, helping this state put meat and vegetables on dinner
tables around the country.

But even as the state enjoys relative economic health -- unemployment, at 4.6
percent, is the third lowest in the nation -- illegal immigration has taken a
more central and more divisive place in the politics of communities like this
one, visibly transformed by an influx of immigrant newcomers.

That shift in political dialogue has been propelled here by Gov. Dave Heineman
-- even before it was a national issue. Four years ago, Mr. Heineman, a
Republican, made his unyielding opposition to illegal immigration a central part
of his underdog campaign for governor.

Now, as a popular incumbent heavily favored to win, he recently announced that
one of the first acts of his second term would be to press for a law that would
make it easier for local police officials to arrest illegal immigrants, which he
said would be closely modeled on the controversial law adopted in Arizona that
is now being challenged by the Obama administration in court.

''I'm very adamant about this -- the federal government has failed to solve the
immigration issue,'' Mr. Heineman said in a recent interview in his offices in
Lincoln, where the shelves are stocked with college football paraphernalia and
the ceilings and walls are adorned with murals celebrating cultures from around
the world. ''Next January I believe in every state in America there will be an
Arizona-type law introduced.''

In an election cycle defined by concerns over jobs and mortgages, government
spending and debt, the issue of illegal immigration has become a common talking
point on the campaign trail.

Candidates running for office in a dozen states have pledged to introduce
legislation similar to the Arizona law, according to a count by the Immigration
Reform Law Institute, which supports the passage of such laws. But while some of
those efforts are given slim chances of passing, such a law is favored by a
large majority of Nebraskans.

This summer, Fremont, where Mr. Heineman got his start on the City Council,
barred businesses from hiring illegal immigrants and landlords from renting to
them -- a contentious battle that unnerved Hispanic residents across the state.

Residents here say that Crete, a city of 6,000 that is dominated by the
meatpacking plant looming over downtown, does not share the conflicts that have
affected other communities with growing Hispanic populations. Still, there is a
palpable unease when talking about immigration.

''We're just getting too many Hispanic people in town,'' said Gerry Boller, 78,
who works at the counter at New Beginnings Thrift Store on Main Avenue. ''It
seems like they come in and take over.''

At Super Latina, a grocery store next door, Jose Banos, the 36-year-old owner,
said that when he moved here from El Salvador 15 years ago, there were no stores
that catered to the Hispanic community. Now his is one of many.

But immigrants are worried by the situation in Fremont and the talk of
replicating the Arizona laws, and some are talking about leaving.

''Arizona needs the law more than we do because on the border, problems with
immigrants come with other problems, like guns and drugs,'' Mr. Banos said.
''Here in Nebraska, it's a whole different story. Immigrants in Nebraska are
coming for work.''

Just over a decade ago the state's two most prominent Republican elected
officials -- Chuck Hagel, then a senator, and Mike Johanns, a governor who is
now in the Senate -- banded together to successfully pressure federal
authorities not to create a program aimed at cracking down on the hiring of
illegal immigrants in the state's meatpacking plants.

Since that time the number of foreign-born residents -- the majority of whom are
Hispanic -- has increased drastically, more than 40 percent since 2000,
according to census estimates. The number of illegal immigrants grew more than
50 percent in that time to 45,000, according to estimates by the Pew Hispanic
Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.

But even if concern about these new arrivals simmered across the state, it did
not become a central part of the political dialogue until 2005, when Mr.
Heineman was elevated from lieutenant governor to the top post after Mr. Johanns
resigned to be United States agriculture secretary.

Mr. Heineman's tenure was expected to be short. The next year, in the Republican
primary, he faced the University of Nebraska's much-beloved football coach
turned congressman, Tom Osborne. But Mr. Heineman proved a more deft campaigner
and lavished attention on the issue of illegal immigration.

''It was the defining issue of his campaign,'' said David J. Kramer, a lawyer
and former state Republican chairman who also ran for office that year. ''It was
the issue that made the difference between him winning and losing.''

As governor, Mr. Heineman has emphasized that the state welcomes immigrants, as
long as they are legal. He has battled repeatedly, though so far unsuccessfully,
to rescind in-state college tuition rates for children who grew up in the state
but are in the country illegally.

He put in effect a system to perform mandatory checks of those applying for
government benefits to ensure that they are not illegal immigrants. And, more
recently, he upset some of his anti-abortion supporters by ending a program that
provided prenatal care for pregnant women who are in the country illegally.

But while Mr. Heineman's previous efforts addressed circumstances that affected
dozens if not hundreds of illegal immigrants, an Arizona-style law would be far
more sweeping.

Mike Meister, a Democrat who is running against Mr. Heineman, has strongly
opposed the proposal, which he said was ''clearly unconstitutional'' and would
waste money by forcing the state to fight an inevitable lawsuit. Mr. Meister, a
lawyer who is trailing badly in the polls, accused Mr. Heineman of using the
proposal as a wedge issue.

''He is pandering to the least common denominator,'' Mr. Meister said. ''Our
fear of difference.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Dave Heineman of Nebraska made illegal immigration a focus
of his campaign four years ago, and the issue has become central to state
politics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS MACHIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES--

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Localities Warned On Fingerprinting

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 233 words


RICHMOND, Va. (AP) -- Local governments cannot opt out of a federal program that
checks the fingerprints of people who are arrested against a database to
determine if they are illegal immigrants, the head of the immigration
enforcement agency said Friday.

That is because the agreement is between the federal and state governments --
not the local governments.

Officials in Arlington County, Va., Santa Clara County, Calif., and Washington,
D.C., have voted to opt out of the Secure Communities program, saying
participation could lead to racial profiling. San Francisco officials have tried
to get out of the program, and several communities are debating whether they
want to participate.

On Friday, John T. Morton, director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, said
the agency would meet with the localities, but in the end the agreement was with
the state.

Suspects who are arrested for any offense from a traffic violation to a violent
crime have long been fingerprinted, and those fingerprints are run through a
federal criminal-background database maintained by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. With Secure Communities, those fingerprints are automatically
checked against immigration records to identify those who might be in the
country illegally.

Since 2008, the program has been expanded to more than 650 jurisdictions in 32
states, with plans to incorporate every jurisdiction by 2013.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 9, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hard on Illegal Migrants, Haven for Refugees

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1198 words


PHOENIX -- Here in Arizona, illegal immigrants get the boot. But refugees get
the welcome mat.

Even as officials rage at what they have called the ''invasion'' of illegal
immigrants, mostly Mexicans, Arizona has welcomed thousands of legal immigrants
from such grief-torn lands as Somalia, Myanmar and Iraq, and is known for
treating them unusually well.

Indeed, the scorched expanse of the Phoenix valley can seem like a giant
resettlement lab. Bosnians trim the watered lawns of the Arizona Biltmore, and
Karenni speakers have their own prenatal class at St. Joseph's hospital. A
Sudanese goat farmer is thriving in a desert slaughterhouse built with a
micro-enterprise loan. (He is glad to demonstrate his skill in turning goats to
goat meat.)

Hai Doo, a laundry worker from Myanmar, got grants to buy his first home. Yasoda
Bhattarai, a new mother from Bhutan, credits 10 weeks of free hospital care for
saving her daughter, who was born with tuberculosis. ''Whenever people ask me
about Phoenix, I tell them it is the best place,'' she said.

Only three states accepted more refugees on a per capita basis over the past six
years. Arizona took nearly twice as many refugees per capita as its liberal
neighbor, California, and more than twice as many per capita as New York, New
Jersey and Connecticut.

''In the degree of welcome and receptivity we see, I would certainly put Arizona
at the top,'' said Robert Carey, a vice president at the International Rescue
Committee, which resettles refugees in a dozen states.

The work contrasts with the state's renown as the scourge of illegal immigrants,
whom critics blame for driving up crime, stealing jobs and burdening hospitals
and schools.

''We're not anti-immigrant -- never have been,'' said State Senator Russell
Pearce, a Republican who is a leading critic of illegal immigration. ''But we
expect people to follow the law.''

Mr. Pearce sponsored a new law that would give the police greater power to
question people about their immigration status. The Obama administration has
sued, arguing the law usurps federal power and encourages racial profiling.

Numerically, the groups do not compare; Arizona took in about 4,700 refugees
last year, but is thought to have about 375,000 illegal immigrants. Refugees are
not economic migrants but survivors of war and persecution whom the United
States admits for humanitarian and foreign policy reasons. In fleeing violence,
many refugees themselves illegally crossed borders overseas.

Refugee groups in Arizona sometimes feel caught in the political crossfire,
wanting to emphasize that their clients are legal immigrants without taking
sides in the larger war.

''We don't want to be in the position of saying one group is good and another is
bad,'' said Robin Dunn Marcos, who runs the rescue group's Phoenix office.

Arizona first drew refugees because the cost of living is low, and until the
recession the state had lots of entry-level jobs open to non-English speakers,
like housekeeping and lawn care. Early success, with Bosnians and Kosovars in
the late 1990s and later with war orphans from Sudan, helped build local
support.

Efforts intensified after the hiring in 2002 of a new state coordinator, Charles
Shipman, who is married to a former Cambodian refugee and known for his
advocacy. In recent years, Arizona has taken more than three times as many
refugees as it did when he arrived.

Mr. Shipman quickly spotted a shortage of interpreters for a population ever
more ethnically diverse. He commissioned a study that found language barriers
''quite troubling.'' The rescue group then used it to win a private grant to
start an interpreting service. It now operates in 14 languages, including
Kirundi (Burundi), Tigrinya (Ethiopia) and Hakka (China).

As the recession took hold, Mr. Shipman led a charge to prevent homelessness
among newly arrived refugees. In part at his prompting, the federal government
let Arizona shift some federal money into rent relief and urged other states to
follow.

That benefited Harith Khalid Aziz, an Iraqi refugee with a master's degree, who
was earning little as a part-time clerk in a grocery. With a wife and a young
son, he said it was ''a horrible feeling'' to fear eviction.

A few months' aid sustained him until he found a better job. In Arizona, even
''if you are not from the same race, they welcome you,'' he said. ''The U.S. is
built on this.''

Last year, the federal government admitted about 75,000 refugees, out of 10.5
million worldwide, and it covers most resettlement costs. State officials
administer the money and help decide how many refugees they can take; private
agencies do the casework, helping find housing and jobs.

The Biltmore not only hired refugees but donated used furniture to them. The
private Tesseract School (tuition: $19,000 a year), established a scholarship
just for refugees. When the rescue group encouraged clients to farm, Hickman's
Eggs donated 60 tons of chicken manure.

Hai Doo, the laundry worker from the former Burma, thought the home ownership
program was too good to be true. Matching grants converted his $5,000 in savings
into a $24,000 down payment on a house. Most of the money came from the Federal
Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, which is required to spend some of its profits
on housing aid.

''I never thought I would get help like this,'' he said.

The flip side of the Arizona story includes the Maricopa County sheriff, Joe
Arpaio, who courts a national following by advertising his toughness toward
illegal immigrants. (''The rumor is I could run for president,'' he said in a
recent interview.)

Mr. Arpaio conducts frequent raids on immigrant neighborhoods, stopping people
for minor infractions and reviewing their immigration status. He says these
raids have netted hundreds of illegal immigrants. Critics say they spread fear
and harass legal residents.

Victor Acevedo, an illegal immigrant from Mexico, said he was stopped in January
after failing to use his turn signal and was found with a small amount of
marijuana. He is now awaiting deportation in one of Mr. Arpaio's famed prison
tents, dressed in the standard outfit: black stripes and pink underwear.

In a tent-side interview in 107-degree heat, Mr. Acevedo, 29, said he came nine
years ago for a ''better livelihood,'' found a landscaping job, married an
American and had two American-born sons. He was deported in 2008 but returned a
year later to be with his family.

''We're here illegally, but we're still human beings,'' he said.

Refugees seem slow to sympathize. The two groups often compete for jobs or
housing, and some refugees say Latino gangs have preyed on them.

The United States ''stands for law and order,'' said Wissam Salman, 35, a hotel
housekeeper from Iraq. ''If they don't look for these people it will be a
disaster.''

Ibrahim Swara-Dahab, the Sudanese goat farmer, agrees.

''I have some problems with the Mexican people; they stole my goats,'' he said.
''If they don't have documents, they should go back to their country.''

Mr. Swara-Dahab acknowledged that he, too, crossed a border illegally when he
fled to Kenya but called that a matter of life and death. ''Here, the situation
is different,'' he said. ''You need documents.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Victor Acevedo migrated illegally to Arizona and is now
awaiting deportation back to Mexico. Through a new law that gained widespread
attention this year, the state is known for being particularly tough on illegal
immigrants.
Hai Doo, right, a refugee from Myanmar shown with his family, bought his house
in Phoenix with the help of large grants. Arizona accepts more refugees per
capita than almost any other state and treats them well.
Refugees learned how to commute on buses in Phoenix last month. Many programs
help ease their adjustment. (A11)
State Senator Russell Pearce, being interviewed at right, is a leading critic of
illegal immigration.
Ibrahim Swara-Dahab, a goat farmer from Sudan, arrived in Arizona as a refugee
and is thriving in a slaughterhouse there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE
NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) MAP: Finding Sanctuary in the Sun: Arizona has taken more
refugees -- legal immigrants who have fled war and persecution and passed a
federal review -- than all but three other states over the past six years.
(Source: Department of State
Arizona Department of Economic Security
 Census Bureau) (A12)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 530 words


International

STRONGMAN OFFERS SECURITY

In Afghanistan's North

Some see Atta Muhammad Noor, a former mujahedeen commander and the governor of
the province that includes Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan, as a thinly disguised
warlord who still exercises an unhealthy degree of control across much of the
north. But there is little doubt that Mr. Noor has managed to bring development
and security to his corner of the country, which is divided by ethnic and
political rivalries. PAGE A4

National

ON IMMIGRATION LAW,

A Generational Fault Line

In the wake of the new Arizona law allowing the police to detain people they
suspect of entering the country illegally, young people are largely coming out
in vehement opposition. But baby boomers are siding with older Americans and
supporting the measure. PAGE A13

OBAMA'S AUNT GIVEN ASYLUM

An immigration judge has granted asylum to President Obama's aunt, allowing her
to stay in the United States and possibly become a citizen in about six years,
her lawyers said. PAGE A13

New York

EX-POLICE COMMISSIONER

Begins Four-Year Sentence

Bernard B. Kerik,  the former police commissioner of New York, who pleaded
guilty last year to eight felony charges,  surrendered at the Federal
Correctional Institution in Cumberland, Md.  PAGE A20

Business

EUROPE'S DEBT CRISIS CASTS

A Shadow Over China

The pain of the European debt crisis is spreading as the plummeting euro makes
Chinese companies less competitive in Europe, their largest market, and
complicates any move to break the Chinese currency's peg to the dollar. PAGE B1

G.M. POSTS GAIN AND PROFIT

General Motors said that it earned its first quarterly profit since 2007 after
last year's government-sponsored bankruptcy allowed the carmaker to wipe away
many of its longstanding obligations. PAGE B1

CABLE AT UPFRONT WEEK

For decades, the upfront week in mid-May, devoted to previewing the coming
television season for advertisers, was reserved for the big broadcast networks.
But recently, the emboldened cable channels have started sneaking onto the
schedule. Advertising. PAGE B9

Sports

WHEN THE BEST PLAYER

Does Not Go No. 1

The 2010 N.B.A. draft lottery, on Tuesday night in Secaucus, N.J., could
scramble some basketball assumptions, starting with this one: that the consensus
best player -- John Wall of Kentucky -- must be taken with the first pick. PAGE
B12

Arts

IN YIDDISH AUTHOR'S PAPERS,

Potential Literary Gold

For more than two decades since the death of Chaim Grade, the great postwar
Yiddish writer, his wife, Inna Hecker Grade, repulsed almost all efforts to
translate or publish his work or sift through his papers. But Mrs. Grade died on
May 2, and now the contents of the couple's book-cluttered apartment in the
Bronx may soon be opened to scholars and publishers. PAGE C1

Science

LITTLE STUDY ON WARM-UPS

Before Exercising

Most serious competitive athletes warm up before a race or a training session.
But there seems to be no particular method to their warm-ups, and researchers
say there is a dearth of good research on whether it actually works. Gina
Kolata, Personal Best. PAGE D5

Op-ed

DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23

BOB HERBERT PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 28, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Beauty of Diversity

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 125 words


To the Editor:

Recent articles about Arizona's immigration laws have caused me to reflect on
what America is all about. Anyone who has spent any time in New York City must
have seen what an incredible variety of races, religions and ethnic origins pass
in review every day on its streets. You see all the elements that have made our
country not only great in achievement but also a beacon and goal for so many
people in so many other countries.

The energy that this wonderful variety of human beings creates for New York is
the same energy created by their brothers and sisters throughout the United
States. It is a delight to behold and a splendid commentary on what has made our
country something so special.

Gideon Cashman New York, June 23, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Asylum Granted to Mexican Woman in Case Setting Standard on Domestic Abuse

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 714 words


The Obama administration has granted asylum to a Mexican woman who was sexually
abused and severely battered by her common-law husband. The decision, in a
closely watched case, clarifies the exacting standard that domestic abuse
victims must meet to win asylum.

Department of Homeland Security officials found that the woman had proved that
she could not expect the Mexican authorities to protect her from the violence
and murder threats of her attacker, and that she could not safely relocate
anywhere in the country to escape him.

During decades of abuse, the man repeatedly raped her at the point of guns and
machetes, and once tried to burn her alive, according to court documents in the
case in San Francisco.

Based on a favorable recommendation from Department of Homeland Security
officials, an immigration judge on Aug. 4 approved asylum for the woman, who is
known only as L.R., because asylum cases are confidential. Her lawyers announced
the decision on Thursday.

The outcome of the case of L.R., 43, brings new clarity to asylum law after
almost 15 years of arcane and tangled litigation, when claims from domestic
abuse victims were regularly dismissed by immigration judges.

''The Department of Homeland Security has recognized that asylum should be
available to women who have suffered domestic violence and whose governments
won't protect them,'' said Simona Agnolucci, a lawyer with the Howard Rice law
firm in San Francisco who represented L.R. ''Now the day finally came when the
department said these are the criteria required to show a case for asylum.''

In the case of L.R., who first filed for asylum in 2005, Homeland Security
Department officials had tipped their hand in papers they submitted in
immigration court in April 2009. They confirmed that L.R. could be eligible for
asylum as a domestic violence victim, but laid out narrowly defined requirements
she would have to meet. Since then, her lawyers presented new evidence designed
to meet those standards.

In a declaration in March, Alicia Elena Perez Duarte y Norona, a former special
prosecutor in Mexico City for crimes against women, said L.R. could not turn for
help to the police in Mexico because of ''the enormous social and cultural
tolerance of this abuse, resulting in the virtual complicity of authorities who
should prevent and punish these violent acts.''

L.R. testified that she had asked Mexican courts for protection for herself and
her two children. One judge had offered to help her if she would have sex with
him, she said.

In a novel argument, a Mexican lawyer specializing in information access, Jimena
Avalos Capin, declared that L.R. could not find safety by moving to any new
location in Mexico because her common-law husband could easily track her down
using the Internet. For L.R. to be able to work in her profession as a
schoolteacher, Ms. Capin said, she would have to post her current address in a
public registry.

L.R.'s lawyers said the case was not likely to lead to any new surge of refugees
in the United States because the hurdles remain high for battered women.

''It shows what kind of evidence would be enough to make a case, but it doesn't
mean every case is successful,'' said Karen Musalo, director of the Center for
Gender and Refugee Studies at the University of California Hastings College of
the Law in San Francisco, who also represented L.R.

Homeland Security Department officials said they would proceed cautiously with
asylum claims based on sexual abuse. ''The department continues to view domestic
violence as a possible basis for asylum in the United States,'' said Matthew
Chandler, an agency spokesman. But he said each case ''requires scrutiny of the
specific threat the applicant faces.''

The government and the courts never questioned the account L.R. gave of her
treatment by a man who she said had first forced her to have sex with him when
she was a teenager and he was her school athletics coach. Once when he
discovered she was pregnant, she said, he set fire to the bed where she was
sleeping.

Asylum was also granted to L.R.'s two sons, now 22 and 20 years old. After years
of ''extreme anxiety'' over the case, Ms. Musalo said, L.R., who is living in
California, is ''ecstatic, grateful and relieved'' that she will be able to
remain in this country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Attacks Fly at New York Debate for Senate Candidates

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 616 words


Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York and the Republican seeking to unseat
her, Joseph J. DioGuardi, questioned each other's integrity in a debate on
Friday filled with sharp exchanges.

Mr. DioGuardi went on the offensive early, criticizing Ms. Gillibrand for her
abrupt reversal on gun control and immigration policy.

He mocked her for supporting gun rights and tough immigration laws when she
represented a conservative upstate district in the House, only to soften her
positions after being appointed by Gov. David A. Paterson in January 2009 to
fill the Senate seat vacated by Hillary Rodham Clinton.

At the time, Ms. Gillibrand, a Democrat, came under fire from liberal members of
her own party who were angered by the positions she had held in the House on gun
control and immigration.

''You could get whiplash,'' Mr. DioGuardi said, asking how voters could trust a
person who had been so ideologically inconsistent.

''I haven't changed my views my whole life,'' added Mr. DioGuardi, an accountant
and a former congressman from Westchester County.

Ms. Gillibrand has said that her change in positions reflected the different,
larger constituency she represented in the Senate.

During the 60-minute debate, held at the Manhattan studios of WABC-TV, Ms.
Gillibrand leveled her own attacks. She suggested Mr. DioGuardi was being
hypocritical by claiming to be a fiscal conservative, noting that he voted twice
to raise the national debt ceiling when he was in Congress.

She also said he needed to explain his role in a company that the Securities and
Exchange Commission says carried out a $1.7 billion scheme to defraud investors
around the country. ''These issues are very concerning,'' she said.

Mr. DioGuardi protested, saying that he was merely a consultant for the company,
Medical Capital Holdings. ''A pure fabrication,'' he said.

Ms. Gillibrand is a strong favorite to win election in November, polls suggest,
and holds a significant lead over Mr. DioGuardi in fund-raising.

One of the most spirited moments on Friday came when one of the moderators asked
her if she still kept two rifles under her bed, as she once said.

Ms. Gillibrand said that she still had the firearms, but now stored them away
safely.

Mr. DioGuardi pounced on her answer. ''She sounded like Annie Oakley before,''
he said dryly. ''And now she sounds like somebody different.''

Mr. DioGuardi also attacked Ms. Gillibrand for spending her early professional
career working at a prestigious New York City law firm and representing the
world's largest cigarette company, Philip Morris.

He said that she helped Philip Morris executives ''conceal'' the facts that
nicotine was addictive and smoking caused cancer.

Ms. Gillibrand, who worked for Philip Morris when the tobacco industry faced
mounting criticism and intensified legal scrutiny, countered that she was a
young lawyer at the firm who had no choice in what cases she was assigned.

Ms. Gillibrand also said that in Congress she consistently voted for tough laws
to regulate tobacco. ''I have a perfect anti-tobacco voting record,'' she said.

Beyond that, Ms. Gillibrand responded that Mr. DioGuardi voted to protect
tobacco interests while he was a member of Congress from 1985 to 1989.

The candidates squared off over other issues, including tax cuts and health
care.

On taxes, Mr. DioGuardi said he wanted Congress to extend Bush-era tax cuts for
people at all income levels, but Ms. Gillibrand said she supported extending
them only for middle-class individuals and families.

Mr. DioGuardi also said he backed repealing the recently enacted law overhauling
the nation's health care system. But Ms. Gillibrand defended the law, citing
ways it improved access to health care.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand, a Democrat, debated her
Republican challenger, Joseph J. DioGuardi, on Friday in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH
BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation Case Presents Test of British Government

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 852 words


LONDON -- Britain's new coalition government of Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats was confronted with an early challenge to its ability to surmount
internal political differences on Tuesday, when an immigration appeals
commission granted the right to remain in Britain to a 23-year-old Pakistani
identified by the panel as an operative of Al Qaeda who posed a ''serious and
continuing threat'' to Britain's national security.

The panel's ruling, based on concern that the man might be tortured if he were
deported, posed an immediate dilemma for the new government. The Conservative
home secretary, Theresa May, said the government would not challenge the ruling.
But officials indicated that she was likely to place the individual concerned,
and a Pakistani accused of being an accomplice, under so-called control orders,
which involve effective house arrest and other restrictions, including a ban on
the use of cellphones and severe limitations on whom the person can meet with.

Control orders were put in place by the previous Labour government to deal with
other Islamic militants  suspected of terrorist involvement but not convicted in
court, either for lack of evidence or because of a concern by the authorities
not to disclose important intelligence information. But the orders have been
bitterly opposed in the past by the Liberal Democrats,  now the junior partners
in the governing coalition.

Their view, in the words of Nick Clegg, now the deputy prime minister, has been
that the orders represent ''a slippery slope'' in the erosion of personal
freedoms in Britain. Chris Huhne, another Liberal Democrat now serving in the
government as energy minister, has described the orders in the past as ''an
affront to British justice.''

Their views are part of a deep commitment to the European Convention on Human
Rights, which became law in Britain in 1998, but which the Conservatives, in the
election that brought them to power last week, said they would replace with a
narrower statute less invasive of the rights of British courts.

Officials in the Home Office, which has many of the powers of the Department of
Homeland Security in the United States, said Tuesday that the government would
try to bridge the differences by appointing an independent commission to review
the use of control orders.

But the fact that the two governing parties have been thrust so quickly into an
issue that so starkly exposes differing approaches to a major policy issue has
underscored how hard they may find it to reconcile their deep philosophical
divide.

The man at the center of the immigration case, Abid Naseer, a student enrolled
in a computer course in Liverpool, was one of 11 men, including 10 Pakistanis,
who were arrested in April 2009 in one of Britain's most extensive
counterterrorism operations since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the United
States.

Based on electronic intercepts, including e-mail messages sent by Mr. Naseer to
contacts in Pakistan, the police said they believed that the men were within
days of mounting a ''mass casualty'' bombing, perhaps at a shopping center.

But the police investigation was severely compromised when the head of Scotland
Yard's counterterrorist squad, Bob Quick, was photographed on his way into a
meeting at 10 Downing Street clutching a folder with details of the alleged
plot, and police plans to foil it. That led to an accelerated series of police
raids in Liverpool and Manchester, which found no explosives or other
bomb-making equipment.

Eventually, all 11 men arrested were released, with the 10 Pakistanis
immediately detained again on national security grounds, and subsequently
ordered deported to Pakistan. Eight of the Pakistanis subsequently left the
country, but Mr. Naseer and Ahmad Faraz Khan, 23, as well as three others who
had already flown back to Pakistan, appealed the deportation orders to the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission.

In its ruling on Tuesday, the commission determined that Mr. Naseer was a Qaeda
operative who posed a ''serious and continuing threat'' to Britain's national
security.

But the judge, John Mitting, also ruled that while deporting Mr. Naseer and Mr.
Khan would be ''conducive to the public good,'' Pakistan had ''a long and
well-documented history of disappearances, illegal detention, and of the torture
and ill-treatment of those detained, usually to produce information, confession
or compliance.'' That meant, he said, that deporting the two men would be a
breach of the provision in the European rights convention banning torture.

The ruling touched on an issue that has also troubled American officials in
dealing with Pakistan on counterterrorism cases. But for Britain, the problem is
especially difficult. Security officials here have said that three-quarters of
all the terrorist plots they have uncovered since Sept. 11 have involved links
to Afghanistan and Pakistan, imposing on them the need for intensive
counterterrorism operations aimed at the Pakistani diaspora in Britain, which
accounts for about two-thirds of Britain's population of at least 1.5 million
Muslims.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nick Clegg, top, the Liberal Democrat deputy prime minister,
and Prime Minister David Cameron, a Conservative. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN
KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES
 ANDREW WINNING/REUTERS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Race for Governor of Arizona, With a Lap in New York

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 575 words


Seeking to harness some of the national uproar over Arizona's new immigration
law, the state's likely Democratic candidate for governor this fall and the
chairman of Arizona's Democratic Party visited New York last week.

The visit, paid for by the Arizona state party, was intended to cultivate
political donors and to raise the profile of Terry Goddard, Arizona's attorney
general and the presumed Democratic candidate for governor.

Mr. Goddard, a Navy veteran, Harvard graduate and former mayor of Phoenix, had
private meetings and spoke at a luncheon on Friday at the Harvard Club of New
York. The audience of 45 included lawyers and bankers, some with roots in
Arizona and others who said they were simply alarmed by political trends there.

Also attending were some prominent Democratic donors and fund-raisers, including
Sarah and Victor Kovner of New York.

''For good or ill, Arizona has taken a leading spot on a national issue,'' said
Ms. Kovner, who is a member of the Democratic National Committee.

''Please give us help in trying to defend what really matters,'' Mr. Goddard
told the lunch group. He accused Republicans of diverting attention from the
state's dire economic condition and the true border problem: crime and violence
associated with drug cartels.

The disputed law, known as SB 1070, allows the police to check the documents of
anyone they stop whom they suspect of being in the country illegally. Opponents
say that the law, which is to take effect on July 29, infringes on federal
authority and that it will lead to racial profiling.

Mr. Goddard said the immigration law and others passed by the conservative State
Legislature not only endangered Arizona's economy by provoking boycotts but had
also tarnished the image of a state with a tradition of ethnic cooperation. ''I
pledge to keep Arizona off of Comedy Central for the next four years,'' he said,
drawing laughs.

Mr. Goddard said Republicans were already discussing further anti-immigrant
measures of dubious legality, including refusing to issue birth certificates to
babies born in the state to undocumented parents.

The Arizona Democratic chairman, Don Bivens, who is a lawyer in Phoenix,
embellished the theme of a spreading cancer, appealing for donations ''for
Arizona and for the country.''

Because Mr. Goddard is running under the state's public financing law, donors
cannot give money directly. Mr. Bivens asked for donations to the state party,
which plans to mobilize potential voters, including Hispanic residents, who
traditionally have a low turnout.

Mr. Goddard acknowledged that the immigration law has put him in a bind. He
previously argued against it as bad policy, but as attorney general he says he
will vigorously defend it against legal challenges, including one expected from
the Obama administration.

''I'm damned if I do and damned if I don't,'' he said in an interview. If the
state prevails in court, he will anger Hispanic and liberal voters, and if it
loses, others will accuse him of not trying hard enough.

Gov. Jan Brewer, who faces a primary battle for the Republican nomination but
whose popularity soared after she signed the bill, has bored in on Mr. Goddard,
saying she wants to use an outside lawyer to defend the state.

''We're going to be dogged by this topic, and we'll continue to try and change
the subject,'' Mr. Goddard said. ''I want to talk about getting more jobs and
building the economy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

L.I. Study Rebuts Perceptions on Immigrant Workers

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 766 words


The growing immigrant population on Long Island has made a disproportionately
large contribution to the region's economy, with immigrants employed across the
spectrum of occupations and more than half of the immigrant labor force holding
white-collar jobs, according to a study released on Wednesday.

But contrary to a widespread perception on Long Island, the study said, the
expansion of the immigrant work force -- both legal and illegal -- has crowded
out few American-born workers.

''The analysis finds very little basis for the frequently voiced concern that
immigrants may be displacing U.S.-born workers, the report, which was based on
census data and conducted by the Fiscal Policy Institute, an independent
research organization in New York, said. ''As immigrants have come to play an
increasingly important role in the Long Island economy,'' the study said, ''they
have for the most part been readily absorbed into the labor market.''

The growth in Long Island's immigrant population has prompted a commensurate
rise in ethnic and class tensions, particularly in Suffolk County, where
anti-immigrant sentiment has occasionally led to violence, including the 2008
killing of Marcelo Lucero, an Ecuadorean immigrant.

The authors of the report warned that the persistence of an anti-immigrant
climate could stifle the area's economy.

''In a volatile political context, Long Island business, political and nonprofit
leaders should be clearly aware of the overall positive role immigration has
played in the local economy,'' said the study, which analyzed data in peak years
of the business cycle: 1990, 2000 and 2007.

But the researchers also said that the benefits of Long Island's robust economy
had not been shared equally. While unemployment levels decreased or at least
remained largely the same for most sectors of the population from 1990 to 2007,
the report said, one group of American-born residents -- black men with no more
than a high school education -- suffered an increase in joblessness, to 7.8
percent from 6.2 percent, with a spike of 8.2 percent in 2000.

The report said factors other than immigration, like the loss of manufacturing
jobs in the region and the high rate of incarceration among black men, may have
affected black unemployment. Still, the authors said, the worsening employment
situation for lesser-educated black men at a time of rising immigration ''is
reason for concern and attention.''

By comparison, unemployment rates among American-born women were either stable
or fell between the peaks of 1990 and 2007, with significant drops among
Hispanic and black women, the study said. For the broad population of
American-born men, unemployment rates generally stayed the same.

A spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, an advocacy
group in Washington that calls for reducing levels of immigration, said he was
troubled by the report.

''It acknowledges job loss and wage suppression of African-Americans -- they're
not a throwaway,'' said the spokesman, Bob Dane. ''Immigration policy needs to
maintain an equilibrium between supply and demand for jobs, and not leave one
group behind.''

The impact of immigration on low-wage American workers, he said, is probably
worse than the study reports because it looked at data from before the current
recession. Mr. Dane also said the study had failed to calculate the costs of
illegal immigration, including unpaid taxes, money sent to other countries and
drains on public services and health care.

From 1990 to 2007, Long Island's immigrant population rose about 62 percent, to
about 449,000 from about 277,600, the report said. During that period, the
growth of the American-born population did not keep pace, so the immigrant share
of the overall population also increased, to 16 percent from 11 percent.

The researchers also found that during those two decades, immigrants' share of
overall economic output on Long Island rose, to 18 percent from 12 percent, even
though their earnings were generally lower than those of their American-born
counterparts.

The study said that immigrants on Long Island worked in a wide range of
occupations, belying a common perception that foreign-born residents were
concentrated in low-wage, low-skilled jobs. About 53 percent of the immigrants
in the labor force are in white-collar occupations, including about 16 percent
of Long Island's executive, administrative and managerial workers; about 22
percent of highly educated professionals like doctors, lawyers and engineers;
and about 26 percent of the registered nurses, therapists and pharmacists, the
study said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A public forum at Hofstra University on Wednesday where a
discussion was held on a study showing that more than half of Long Island's
immigrant workers hold white-collar jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Births to Illegal Immigrants Are Studied

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 702 words


About 340,000 of the 4.3 million babies born in the United States in 2008 -- or
8 percent -- had at least one parent who was an illegal immigrant, according to
a study published Wednesday by the Pew Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research
group in Washington.

Because they were born in this country, the babies of illegal immigrants are
United States citizens. In all in 2008, four million children who were American
citizens had at least one parent who was in the country illegally, the Pew study
found.

Children of illegal immigrants make up 7 percent of all people in the country
younger than 18 years old, according to the study, which is based on March 2009
census figures, the most recent data on immigrant families. Nearly four out of
five of those children -- 79 percent -- are American citizens because they were
born here.

About 85 percent of the parents who are illegal immigrants are Hispanic, the Pew
Center said.

The study comes as lawmakers in Washington have been debating whether to
consider changing the 14th Amendment, which grants citizenship to anyone born in
the United States. The controversy began after Senator Lindsey Graham,
Republican of South Carolina, said in July that he might offer an amendment to
revoke birthright citizenship for the American-born children of illegal
immigrants.

Mr. Graham's comments touched a nerve with many Americans, who called in to talk
shows to question whether the children of immigrants who have violated the law
by remaining in the United States should be granted citizenship. But it was less
clear that there was strong support for altering the Constitution to address the
problem.

A nationwide survey in June by the Pew Research Center for the People and the
Press, a group affiliated with the Hispanic Center, found that 56 percent of
those polled opposed changing the 14th Amendment, while 41 percent supported it.

The study by the Pew Hispanic Center casts light on an issue raised by Mr.
Graham that prompted the current debate. In an interview with Fox News last
month, he said that many illegal immigrants were crossing the border to have
babies in this country to gain citizenship for their children. ''They come here
to drop a child,'' Mr. Graham said.

The Pew figures show that most illegal immigrant mothers did not arrive
recently.

More than 80 percent of mothers in the country illegally had been here for more
than a year, the figures show, and more than half had been in the country for
five years or more, said Jeffrey S. Passel, senior demographer at the Pew
Hispanic Center and the co-author of the study, along with Paul Taylor, the
center's director.

''The combination of the growing undocumented population through 2007, with more
staying in the country longer, creates a situation where we have seen increasing
numbers of these births over the last six or seven years,'' Mr. Passel said.
''Because the immigrants are staying here, this is a young population, and they
get married and form families.''

Some researchers noted that the Pew figures did not identify families where both
parents were illegal immigrants. ''If anything, the Pew report highlights how
complicated this issue is, given that so many unauthorized immigrants live in
families that include U.S. citizens and legal immigrants,'' said Michele Waslin,
senior policy analyst for the Immigration Policy Center, a group that supports
legalization for illegal immigrants.

Republican leaders and conservatives have been divided over Mr. Graham's
proposal for a constitutional amendment.

''What the Pew estimate underlines is that this is a big problem,'' said Mark
Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a research
group that advocates reduced immigration. ''It really is a subversion of
national independence for people who break into your country then to demand that
their kids be U.S. citizens.''

But Mr. Krikorian does not favor an immediate effort to amend the Constitution's
citizenship clause. He said he wanted to see tougher enforcement to reduce the
number of illegal immigrants.

''The point is to shrink the illegal population and prevent new illegals from
coming in,'' he said, ''before it's appropriate to have the constitutional
debate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Obama Signs Border Bill To Increase Surveillance

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 408 words


President Obama signed into law a $600 million bill on Friday to pay for 1,500
new border agents, additional unmanned surveillance drones and new Border Patrol
stations along the southwest border.

The measure sailed through Congress in little more than a week with broad
bipartisan support, demonstrating the pressure on politicians to look strong on
border enforcement. Introduced on Aug. 5, the bill was approved the same day by
the Senate by unanimous consent, and passed again by the Senate on Thursday in a
special session during the Congressional recess. The House had passed the bill
in a special session on Tuesday.

Mr. Obama requested the funds in June, after he announced he would send 1,200
National Guard troops to support agents along the border.

The administration has been under pressure to strengthen border enforcement
since Arizona adopted a tough law in April to crack down on illegal immigration,
saying the federal government was failing to do its job. After the
administration sued Arizona, a federal court stayed important parts of that law.

The two senators from Arizona, John McCain and Jon Kyl, both Republicans who
have criticized the administration's border measures as weak, surprised
Democrats by signing on as sponsors of the spending bill.

Under a proposal by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, the new
resources will be paid for by steep increases on visa fees for high-tech workers
brought to the United States by Indian companies who bring in thousands of
temporary employees each year.

Some Republicans still said they wanted more resources for the border. ''Right
now, it seems more like an effort to receive positive press than to genuinely
improve the critical border situation,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican
of Alabama.

Immigrant advocates said they were disappointed that the only major immigration
legislation this year included no measures to grant legal status to illegal
immigrants already in this country.

Senator McCain, campaigning in Arizona, also clarified his position on another
immigration controversy, telling The Associated Press that he did not favor a
change to the Constitution to revoke the right to citizenship for American-born
children of illegal immigrants.

Asked if he would support changing the 14th Amendment, Mr. McCain said: ''No. I
mean, first of all we'd have to have hearings, we'd have to find out what the
argument would be, but I certainly don't at this time.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama signed the $600 million bill on Friday.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 21, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Calderon Again Assails Arizona Law On Detention

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 458 words


WASHINGTON -- President Felipe Calderon of Mexico escalated his assault Thursday
on the Arizona law that allows law enforcement officials to detain anyone
suspected of being in the country illegally, calling it a ''terrible idea.'' He
offered the criticism in a particularly privileged forum: before a joint meeting
of Congress.

Mr. Calderon dedicated much of his 35-minute speech to underscoring the
centrality of the relationship between Mexico and the United States, and he drew
warm and frequent applause.

But he did not shy from the thorniest common issues, including illegal
immigration and the tough law that is part of Arizona's response, and the deadly
surge in drug-related violence that has spilled at times across the border. To
address the latter, Mr. Calderon argued  that Congress should reinstate its ban
on the sort of assault weapons often used by drug traffickers.

Briefly taking up the Arizona law, he said that it ''introduces a terrible idea:
using racial profiling as a basis for law enforcement.'' He had made a similar
point on Wednesday, when he spent much of the day with President Obama, who
himself called the law ''misdirected.''

Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said afterward that it was
''inappropriate for President Calderon to lecture Americans on our own state and
federal laws.''

Mr. Calderon also said that despite immense challenges -- the recent recession,
a severe drought and a deadly flu outbreak -- Mexico was doing all it could to
keep its people at home. It has managed to create hundreds of thousands of jobs
this year, he said, growing more rapidly than its northern neighbor.

He also told Congress that Mexico was making extraordinary efforts to confront a
wave of drug-fueled crime. ''We have not hesitated to use all the power of the
state, including the federal police and the armed forces,'' he said. ''We are
hitting them, and we are hitting them hard.''

''Restoring public security will not be easy and will not be quick,'' Mr.
Calderon said, adding that it would take time, money ''and, unfortunately to our
deep sorrow, it will take human life.''

But he said that of 75,000 guns and assault weapons seized in Mexico in the past
three years, ''more than 80 percent of those we have been able to trace came
from the United States.''

Violence in Mexico began to increase in 2006, he said, just two years after the
American assault-weapons ban expired. Drug-related killings are estimated to
have approached 23,000 since that year. Mr. Calderon's call for a new weapons
ban drew some applause, but many lawmakers remained seated. Indeed, in the
largely pro-gun Congress, there seemed to be little chance of passing a fresh
ban, and the notion raised some Republican ire.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 22, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Arizona Law Reveals Split Within G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1217 words


LOS ANGELES -- Republican lawmakers and candidates are increasingly divided over
illegal immigration -- torn between the need to attract Latino support,
especially at the ballot box, and rallying party members who support tougher
action.

Arizona's new measure, which requires that the police check the  documents of
anyone they stop or detain whom they suspect of being in the country illegally,
has forced politicians far and wide to take a stance. But unlike in Washington,
where a  consensus exists among establishment Republicans, the fault lines in
the states -- where the issue is even more visceral and immediate -- are not
predictable.

Conservative Republican governors like Jim Gibbons of Nevada, Robert F.
McDonnell of Virginia and Rick Perry of Texas have criticized the Arizona law.
But some more moderate Republicans, like Tom Campbell, who is running in the
party's Senate primary in California, have supported it.

The decision on whether to support or oppose the law can have almost immediate
political consequences. The latest evidence may be Meg Whitman's declining
fortunes.

For months, Ms. Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, enjoyed a
substantial lead over her principal rival for the Republican nomination for
governor of California, Steve Poizner. But in recent weeks, she has seen her
advantage slip significantly, in no small part because Mr. Poizner has hammered
her on her opposition to the Arizona law.

Finding herself increasingly on the defensive on the issue, Ms. Whitman even
proclaims in a new advertisement: ''I'm 100 percent against amnesty for illegal
immigrants. Period.''

Nonetheless, a poll released Wednesday by the Public Policy Institute of
California showed her advantage falling 23 percentage points since March, down
to 38 percent versus 29  for Mr. Poizner.

In states with hotly contested elections, several Republican candidates are
finding their positions mobile, reflecting the delicacy of the issue and a
growing body of polls that suggest many voters support the Arizona law.

In Florida, for instance, Attorney General Bill McCollum, who is running for
governor, now says he approves of the law, though he called it ''far out'' two
weeks ago; Marco Rubio, the state's Republican Senate nominee, has also shifted
his stance.

State Republicans now find themselves in a balancing act, trying to seize a
moment of Congressional stalemate to demonstrate leadership while not repelling
voters on either side of the debate, a challenge that is particularly daunting
for those in a primary fight.

''I think we need to be very careful about immigration,'' said Karl Rove, the
former adviser to President George W. Bush. ''I applaud Arizona for taking
action, but I think the rhetoric on all sides ought to be lowered.''

Mr. Rove and other strategists who worked for Mr. Bush were proponents of an
immigration overhaul that included a path to legal status.

At the same time, state legislatures are racing to create their own laws, making
it more likely than ever that the nation will end up with a patchwork of state
legislation instead of a comprehensive national approach in the next year or
two.

In the first three months of this year, legislators in 45 states introduced
1,180 bills and resolutions relating to immigration; 107 laws have passed,
compared with 222 in all of 2009, according to the National Conference of State
Legislators.

''The kindling has been lit in the states,'' said Matthew Dowd, a political
consultant from Texas who was the chief strategist for the 2004 Bush-Cheney
campaign.

''With immigration, the choices you have to make are hard, and most people in
Washington don't really like to make hard choices,'' he added. ''Hard choices
are much more often made in the states.''

Democrats have their own problems with the issue. Some more left-leaning
factions prefer a path to legal status for illegal immigrants without the tough
enforcement measures that Democrats in Congress have proposed.

But the divisions appear more acute among Republicans, some of whom fear that
the party will become identified with punitive immigration laws at a time when
Hispanics are a growing part of the electorate -- particularly in emergent
battleground states like Colorado and Nevada.

''I am a grandson of an Irish immigrant,'' Mr. McDonnell of Virginia said in an
e-mail message. ''The Hispanic population in this country contributes to our
culture, economic prosperity and quality of life.''

Republicans who are not facing primary challenges are far more likely to take a
more moderate view of immigration, and many, particularly in border states, are
aware that business groups that depend on illegal immigrants for labor support a
comprehensive immigration overhaul.

''If I am running in a primary without opposition, I have the luxury of not
having to worry about what I say on this issue,'' said Dan Schnur, director of
the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politicsat the University of Southern
California.

The dynamics of immigration politics vary vastly by state, even among those with
heavy immigrant populations, and can reflect local concerns. In Texas, for
instance, Latinos have a lot of political influence and have elected candidates
for many years. The population there is often closely aligned with the political
leadership of some cities and even with state government.

In Arizona, Gov. Jan Brewer, who faces a Republican primary challenge, was under
extreme pressure from her own party for advocating a tax increase, something now
seen as largely mitigated by her signing of the immigration bill.

But it is also true that a spate of new polls show support, although tempered,
for the state's tough new immigration law, which is clearly weighing on the
minds of candidates.

In a recent New York Times/CBS poll, 57 percent of the 1,079 adults queried said
the federal government should determine the laws on illegal immigration, and 51
percent said the Arizona law was ''about right'' in its approach to the problem.

In a poll released by the Pew Research Center this month, 59 percent of 994
respondents said they approved of the Arizona law, while 32 percent disapproved.
An Associated Press/Univision poll found that 42 percent of those asked favored
the Arizona law and 24 percent opposed it.

''It is really how you ask the question,'' said Sarah Taylor, who was Mr. Bush's
political affairs director. ''And it is tied up in people's feelings about their
own family's immigration experience, and then you have elements of race.''

While the federal government ponders, numerous states have already moved to
emulate Arizona's law, while others have moved forward with other measures, from
laws that prohibit driver's licenses for illegal immigrants to those that
improve classes for immigrant children in public schools.

The issue is likely to be a problem for both parties throughout this election
year.

''People like Perry and McDonnell and others realize this is a very divisive
issue for our party,'' said Linda Chavez, the Republican chairwoman of the
Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative research organization, referring to
the governors of Texas and Virginia. ''The fact is, you can't secure the borders
if you don't fix immigration, because the two go hand in hand.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Illegal Immigrants Restricted

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 824 words


CHICAGO -- Residents of a small city in eastern Nebraska voted Monday to banish
illegal immigrants from jobs and rental homes, defying an earlier decision by
the city's leaders and setting off what is all but certain to be a costly and
closely watched legal challenge.

In Fremont , a meat-packing town of about 25,000 people, unofficial results from
The Associated Press late Monday showed that 57 percent of voters approved a
referendum barring landlords from renting to those in the country illegally,
requiring renters to provide information to the police and to obtain city
occupancy licenses, and obliging city businesses to use a federal database to
check for illegal immigrants.

Opponents of the new law, including some business and church leaders, had argued
that the City of Fremont simply could not afford the new law, which is all but
certain to be challenged in court. In a flurry of television commercials and
presentations by opponents in the final days before Monday's vote, opponents
said paying to defend such a local law would require a significant cut in
Fremont city services or a stiff tax increase  --  or some combination of the
two.

''There were a lot of tears in this room tonight,'' said Kristin Ostrom, an
opponent who gathered with others in an old V.F.W. building to await the
results. ''Unfortunately, people have voted for an ordinance that's going to
cost millions of dollars, and that says to the Hispanic community that the Anglo
community is saying they are not welcome here. They thought they were coming to
a small-town community with small-town values.''

But advocates argued that federal authorities had failed to enforce their own
immigration restrictions, leaving places like Fremont  --  with a small but
growing Hispanic population  --  to take care of such matters themselves. They
complained that illegal immigrants were causing an increase in crime, taking
jobs that would once have gone to longtime residents, and changing the character
of their quiet city, some 30 miles of farm fields from Omaha.

Within minutes of the results being announced, officials from the A.C.L.U.
Nebraska pledged to file a lawsuit as quickly as possible.

''If this law goes into effect, it will cause discrimination and racial
profiling against Latinos and others who appear to be foreign born, including
U.S. citizens,'' Laurel Marsh, executive director of A.C.L.U. Nebraska , said in
a statement issued late Monday. ''The A.C.L.U. Nebraska has no option but to
turn to the courts to stop this un-American and unconstitutional ordinance
before the law goes into effect. Not only do local ordinances such as this
violate federal law, they are also completely out of step with American values
of fairness and equality.''

Fremont's Hispanic population, practically nonexistent two decades ago, has
grown to about 2,000 people, according to some estimates. No one knows how many
illegal immigrants live in Fremont, and the estimates (depending on which side
of this debate one is on) vary enormously.

Still, some in Fremont point, with worry, to other Nebraska towns  --  places
like Schuyler and Lexington  --  as communities that no longer look or feel the
way they once did.

In recent years, numerous towns and cities around the nation have considered
adopting laws restricting illegal immigrants. But in most cases, political
leaders and town councils have been the ones to pass the provisions  --  not the
voters. And the laws have proven politically-tangled: measures in towns like
Hazleton, Pa., and Farmers Branch, Tex., are still being fought in court, while
some other cities (facing the prospect of drawn-out legal battles) have dropped
the issue.

That almost happened in Fremont. Two years ago, a City Council member in Fremont
suggested the city should pass a law on illegal immigrants. But after two
emotional hearings  --  with what both sides said was participants from all over
the state, the Council voted 4 to 4 on the proposal. The longtime mayor then
voted against it, saying that he, too, was opposed to illegal immigrants but had
come to believe that the question was one that had been, legally speaking, left
to federal authorities, not Fremont.

Some residents were outraged by the choice, and began collecting signatures on a
petition to put the question to a vote  --  the vote that ultimately came on
Monday.

As residents of Fremont began considering what the decision would now mean,
details of the new law were a new matter for debate. Some noted, with
puzzlement, that the law would not apply to the area's two biggest meatpacking
plants (including Hormel, the largest employer) because they are just outside
the city's official boundaries, and that the law would also not apply to
''casual labor for domestic tasks'' around Fremont homes. But some said they
believe the housing requirements  --  and new $5 occupancy license rule  --
might apply to people living in nursing homes.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexico: 21 Killed In Clash Near Border

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING THE AMERICAS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 80 words


A gun battle between rival drug and migrant-trafficking gangs near the United
States border left 21 people dead on Thursday, prosecutors said. The clash
occurred in a sparsely populated area in Sonora State, about 12 miles from the
Arizona border  --  a prime corridor for immigrant and drug smuggling. Sonora's
attorney general's office said in a statement that nine people were captured by
the police at the scene of the shooting, six of whom had been wounded in the
confrontation.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 16, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fences Make Good Neighbors? This One Has Its Doubters

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE
FENCE'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words


In her new documentary for HBO, ''The Fence,'' Rory Kennedy takes just over a
half-hour to demonstrate that the border fence between the United States and
Mexico is a political boondoggle that kills migrants but doesn't keep them out
of the country.

That might be an arguable proposition, but if you trust Ms. Kennedy, an
Emmy-winning documentary maker (for ''Ghosts of Abu Ghraib''), you can't help
noticing that the only people she gets to say a kind word about the fence are
Border Patrol agents, whose salaries are paid by the government that built it.

Otherwise people on every side of the immigration issue -- members of the
Minuteman militia groups that spurred passage of the law that authorized the
fence, the Secure Fence Act, in 2006; American ranchers; the ''coyotes'' who
smuggle Mexicans across the border; and the Mexican migrants themselves --
testify to the fence's ineffectiveness.

In Mexico, Ms. Kennedy walks up to the fence with a coyote who shows her the
tunnels and drainage ditches he will use that night to take across those who are
willing to pay him $1,800 each. In a town across the border from Arizona she
shows us a shop specializing in crossing gear -- backpacks, water bottles -- and
interviews a restaurant worker who will walk across that night, despite being on
crutches. ''There is no obstacle for a Mexican,'' he says.

The film provides a litany of facts and figures, without attribution, to make
the case that the fence (which will eventually cover no more than 700 miles
along a roughly 2,000-mile border) fails to stop anything: not terrorism, not
drug smuggling and certainly not illegal immigration. Meanwhile it causes
flooding, disrupts animal populations and forces migrants farther into the
desert, causing a sharp increase in deaths.

Ms. Kennedy, who narrates, avoids taking an explicit position, but her point of
view is clear both in the story she tells and in the film's tone, which
oscillates between earnestness and dark humor. Tongue-in-cheek graphics point
out the gaps in the fence's construction, and Minuteman members look more than
faintly ridiculous playing soldier in the desert.

She appears to identify more with the ranchers, including Bill Odle, a former
Marine bothered by both illegal immigration and the effects of the barrier on
deer and wildcats. Describing the fence's inadequacy, he says, ''It's putting a
Band-Aid on a sucking chest wound.''

As the short film flies past, the historian Douglas Brinkley pops up for a few
seconds to demonstrate another of the fence's inefficiencies: how the twisting
course of the Rio Grande in Texas led to a no man's land between river and
fence.

As he points this out on a photograph, we see the perfect visual summary of the
situation: sitting outside the fence, on the last piece of American soil, a
well-manicured golf course looks across the river at a densely populated Mexican
town.

THE FENCE (LA BARDA)

HBO, Thursday night at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.

Produced by Moxie Firecracker Films. Directed and narrated by Rory Kennedy;
written by Mark Bailey; Ms. Kennedy, Liz Garbus and Keven McAlester, producers;
Lauren Barker, associate producer; Sari Gilman, editor; Nick Doob,
cinematographer. For HBO: Sheila Nevins, executive producer; Nancy Abraham,
senior producer.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene in Rory Kennedy's new HBO documentary, ''The Fence,''
about the barrier that is being built along the United States-Mexico border.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN REGAN/HBO) (C5)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 629 words


International

GLOBAL CURRENT OF LABOR KEEPS FLOWING IN DOWNTURN

Despite the world's worst economy in 70 years, international migration shows few
signs of retreat. Globally, the number of migrants appears undiminished, and
last year, they sent home more money than forecasters had expected. PAGE A4

DEATH TOLL IN JAMAICA RISES

After five days of sporadic fighting in Kingston, Jamaica, the police have still
not found Christopher Coke, a gang leader wanted in the United States. The death
toll has risen to at least 70 amid complaints that the police have used
indiscriminate force. PAGE A4

OBAMA'S SECURITY STRATEGY

President Obama's first formal national security strategy describes a coming era
in which the United States will have to live within its limits, a world with
more competing powers and a world where two wars cannot be sustained. PAGE A8

Political Crisis Looms in Nepal A6

North Korea to Cut Off Hot Line A9

Obituaries

JOHN W. FINN, 100

The last survivor of the 15 Navy men who received the Medal of Honor for heroism
during the attack on Pearl Harbor, he was the oldest living recipient of the
medal, the nation's highest award for valor. PAGE A21

National

ARIZONA IMMIGRATION LAW STIRS UNEASE AMONG LATINOS

When Gov. Jan Brewer signed Arizona's immigration enforcement law, she sought to
allay concerns among Hispanics that they would be singled out for scrutiny. But
many Latinos believe the police already often single them out and that this will
only increase. PAGE A11

A coalition of music groups has announced that its members will boycott all
performances in Arizona to protest the state's new anti-immigration law. The
group called the legislation ''an assault on the U.S. Constitution.'' PAGE A11

DIRECTOR RESIGNS OVER SPILL

S. Elizabeth Birnbaum, who was director of the Minerals Management Service,
became the first high-profile government official to resign in connection with
the oil disaster in the Gulf of Mexico. PAGE A14

Call to Expand Health Plans A12

New York

BUILDING PLANS, GROUND ZERO AND THE FIRST AMENDMENT

Cries of protest have been loud since news spread of plans to build an Islamic
center near ground zero. For some, the question of what is proper respect seems
to turn solely on religion, and that puts everyone on slippery constitutional
terrain. NYC by Clyde Haberman. PAGE A16

Business

STOCK MARKET SWINGS AGAIN, BUT THIS TIME IT SWINGS UP

After days of sudden losses and reversals in the markets, investors rallied
around the Chinese government's dismissal of reports that it might pare its
European investments. PAGE B1

A FORD S.U.V., REINCARNATED

With sales of the Explorer a small fraction of what they were in the S.U.V.
glory days, executives at Ford Motor are remaking the it in 2011 as a more
fuel-efficient crossover. PAGE B1

Ford is expected to tell dealers this fall that it is cutting Mercury, a
71-year-old brand that accounts for less than 6 percent of Ford sales and will
soon have just two models. PAGE B2

SALE OF A.I.G. UNIT IN FLUX

The British firm Prudential is in discussions to lower the $35.5 billion
purchase price for American International Group's Asian life insurance unit,
people briefed on the matter said. PAGE B3

Sports

FOX'S N.F.L. REPORTER HAS CLIENTS WITHIN SIDELINES

Jay Glazer is a National Football League reporter for Fox Sports and a mixed
martial arts trainer to some players. The arrangement raises questions about how
he balances competing interests. PAGE B11

Weekend

THE LATEST 'IDOL' WINNER

Lee DeWyze has become the ninth winner of ''American Idol,'' capping its
evolution from talent competition to makeover show. Over the course of the
season, Mr. DeWyze traveled the space from shy underdog to world killer. PAGE C1

Op-ed

OLIVIA JUDSON PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 21, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Marriages

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 313 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Do You Take This Immigrant?'' (news article, June 13):

I married an immigrant about 18 years ago. He is my best friend, and we have two
wonderful boys. Back then, it was not so difficult to get a green card.

In our interview, he got the month of my birthday wrong (I chastised him before
the immigration official could). I can't imagine how stressful it would be to
worry that he might be deported because of some silly detail in an interview.
And I wonder if, had he been from south of the Equator rather than from southern
Italy, we would have had as easy a time.

My grandparents and great-grandparents were immigrants. But it is none of these
personal reasons that make me support broader acceptance of immigrants and
granting more green cards. It is that I see that what makes our country, and our
city especially, so wonderful is our heterogeneity.

But besides that, we who have so much should welcome those who would join us,
not act with suspicion and greed.

Rachel Porter Brooklyn, June 14, 2010

To the Editor:

Re ''Wed in 1993, but Still in Immigration Limbo'' (news article, June 14):

I read the article about the couple stuck in immigration limbo and was
absolutely flabbergasted that 17 years of marriage does not qualify as real
commitment. It is no wonder that the United States has a problem with illegal
immigration when the Citizenship and Immigration Services are wasting time
asking inane questions of married couples. What a true waste of time and money
as well as a fine example of bureaucratic blundering and ineptness.

Please don't ask me what my husband was wearing on any given occasion or where
he took me for my birthday. Chances are neither of us will remember or care. Oh,
by the way, we are celebrating our 49th anniversary, and senility does not enter
into our forgetfulness.

Hilda Bokos Westland, Mich., June 16, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

27-Year Sentence for Plant Manager

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1136 words


A federal judge in Iowa on Monday announced a prison sentence of 27 years on
financial fraud charges for Sholom Rubashkin, the former manager of a kosher
meatpacking plant where hundreds of illegal immigrant workers were arrested in a
2008 raid that garnered national attention.

Although the case against Mr. Rubashkin originally centered on immigration
charges, during the trial in Sioux Falls, S.D., prosecutors focused instead on
financial abuses when he was in charge of the Agriprocessors slaughterhouse in
Postville, Iowa.

The sentence, two years more than prosecutors had requested, was unusually high
in the recent history of financial crimes -- longer than the term for Jeffrey K.
Skilling, the former chief executive of Enron, and L. Dennis Kozlowski, the
former chief executive of Tyco.

Lawyers for Mr. Rubashkin said they would appeal the decision, challenging the
interpretation of federal sentencing guidelines by Judge Linda R. Reade. The
appeal would expand the controversy surrounding the case, which has already
included six former United States attorneys general writing to the judge to
assail the prosecutors' logic in seeking a term that could amount to a life
sentence.

The sentence is also likely to deepen the belief among some Orthodox Jewish
leaders, who have sustained an international campaign on Mr. Rubashkin's behalf,
that he was unfairly tried.

In an unusual procedure, Judge Reade, of the Northern District of Iowa, released
a 52-page memorandum on Monday, a day before the scheduled sentencing hearing,
in which she explained her decision. She will formally impose the sentence on
Tuesday.

The raid on the Postville plant became an emblem of the Bush administration's
tough immigration enforcement strategy. It led to the bankruptcy of
Agriprocessors, prison and deportation for hundreds of illegal immigrant
workers, and a battered economy for the northeast Iowa town.

Mr. Rubashkin was convicted in November in a federal trial of 86 counts of
financial fraud for his mishandling of a revolving loan from First Bank Business
Capital of St. Louis, among other loans. After that conviction, prosecutors
dismissed separate federal immigration charges.

Judge Reade noted that Mr. Rubashkin had misled the bank repeatedly about the
finances of Agriprocessors, ordering employees to create fake invoices and
moving cash secretly among different accounts, including some designated for
religious purposes. The maneuvers caused a loss to the bank of $26 million, the
judge found.

In one episode, Judge Reade wrote, Mr. Rubashkin lent $4,500 to illegal
immigrants working in the plant so they could buy new fake identity documents,
after immigration authorities had questioned the validity of their original
hiring documents.

Judge Reade rejected a defense argument that Mr. Rubashkin was not motivated by
greed, but was trying out of loyalty and religious faith to sustain a business
owned by his father, Aaron Rubashkin. At the time of the raid, Agriprocessors
was the largest kosher beef producer in the country.

''No matter defendant's motive,'' Judge Reade wrote, ''he defrauded the victim
banks out of millions of dollars.'' She also sentenced Mr. Rubashkin to pay
almost $27 million in restitution to the institutions.

''There was no bank robbery, he never intended to cheat or steal from anyone,''
said Guy Cook, Mr. Rubashkin's defense lawyer. Mr. Cook said the term was
''essentially a life sentence'' for Mr. Rubashkin, who is 50, and was especially
difficult for Mr. Rubashkin's 10 children, one of whom is autistic.

Mr. Cook said Mr. Rubashkin, who was informed of the sentence Monday morning in
a county jail, had taken the news calmly. ''He understands that ultimately what
happens to him is in God's hands,'' Mr. Cook said.

Some Jewish leaders were not calm.

''Our community will react just as I have, with shock and disgust,'' said Rabbi
Pesach Lerner, executive vice president of the National Council of Young Israel,
who has organized support for Mr. Rubashkin among Orthodox Jews. Rabbi Lerner
said he would try to raise an outcry to bring attention to the appeal.

In a separate state trial in Iowa, Mr. Rubashkin was acquitted earlier this
month of all charges that he knowingly employed under-age workers at the
Agriprocessors plant.

While state prosecutors were not able to convince the jury that Mr. Rubashkin
was personally aware of minors in the plant, the trial evidence showed that at
least 29 immigrants under 18 were employed on Agriprocessors' packing lines,
some working night shifts and wielding sharp knives.

The company itself pleaded guilty at the outset of the trial to multiple charges
of abuse of under-age laborers. Because Agriprocessors is bankrupt, prosecutors
said they would not be able to collect any fine.

Last year, responding to the Agriprocessors events, the Iowa state legislature
passed a law making it easier to convict employers who hire child laborers and
increasing penalties.

Nearly 400 immigrants who worked in the plant, most from Guatemala, served
federal prison sentences of up to five months for identity theft and were
deported.

But some of the former workers will be allowed to remain in the United States.
To date, 41 of the immigrants have been approved to receive a special visa,
known as a U-visa, that is granted to victims of violent abuse, said Sonia
Parras Konrad, a lawyer who represented those workers. The workers showed that
they had been struck by managers or sexually assaulted while working at
Agriprocessors, she said.

Ms. Parras praised Judge Reade's sentence.

''Even though these labor practices never came out in court, the sentence sends
a really good message that this kind of practice will not be tolerated,'' she
said.

The federal prosecutors had originally sought a life sentence for Mr. Rubashkin,
but then revised their request to 25 years. Six former attorneys general,
including Janet Reno and Edwin Meese III, wrote to Judge Reade in April arguing
that a life sentence would be a severe misreading of the sentencing guidelines
as applied to white-collar crimes.

Mr. Skilling was sentenced to 24 years, after the court found he caused losses
at Enron of $80 million. Mr. Kozlowski, who was convicted of a $150 million
fraud, was sentenced in state court to 8  1/3 to 25 years.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2010



CORRECTION: This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:
Because of an editing error, an article on June 22 about the sentencing for
financial fraud of Sholom Rubashkin, the former manager of a meatpacking plant
in Iowa, misidentified the location of his trial. It was in federal court in
Sioux Falls, S.D. -- not in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. (That is where he was
sentenced.) The article also misstated Mr. Rubashkin's age. He is 50, not 51.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sholom Rubashkin, who managed a kosher meatpacking plant, was
sentenced to two years more than prosecutors sought. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER
GANNON/DES MOINES REGISTER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

American History, With Shakespeare As Inspiration

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1032 words


ASHLAND, Ore.

AT a moment when the subject of America's immigration policy has ignited
passions across the country, here at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival audiences
are being encouraged to laugh about it.

Jokes involving Sarah Palin, the Tea Party and Joe Arpaio, the Arizona sheriff,
fly in ''American Night: The Ballad of Juan Jose,'' an irreverent survey of
American history through the eyes of a Mexican immigrant studying for his
citizenship exam.

The play, by Richard Montoya and the satiric Latino theater group Culture Clash,
also pokes fun at Mormons, Asians, Shakespeare and a variety of American
historical figures, including Lewis and Clark and Teddy Roosevelt. But despite
the comic tone and the fact that ''American Night'' is an equal-opportunity
offender, the agenda is clear. As Mr. Montoya said in an interview here last
month, the aim is to win ''some empathy for a highly vilified archetype -- the
Mexican immigrant.''

Mr. Montoya, who is performing in the play with Herbert Siguenza, another member
of the three-man Culture Clash, and seven other actors, added, ''My role as
artist-activist is to humanize the people'' in the middle of the immigration
debate ''so they aren't just silhouettes on a freeway warning sign.''

''American Night,'' which opened on July 3 to positive reviews and runs in
repertory through October, is the first result of an ambitious program called
American Revolutions: The United States History Cycle. Shortly before he took
over in 2007, the festival's artistic director, Bill Rauch, announced a 10-year
plan to commission 37 new plays -- a nod to the number in Shakespeare's canon --
about critical moments in American history. Up to 15 will get full productions
at the festival; others, it is hoped, will be produced elsewhere.

In an interview Mr. Rauch said he was inspired by the role that Shakespeare,
through his history plays, filled in helping his fellow citizens confront the
major political questions of their day. ''He lived in an age of anxiety about
who would replace the childless monarch Elizabeth,'' Mr. Rauch said. ''He
dramatized stories from his country's past to study the transfer of power and to
entertain and move and provoke people, and that got me thinking about our own
country's history.''

To oversee the program Mr. Rauch recruited Alison Carey, with whom he had
founded, in 1986, the Cornerstone Theater Company, a group that started out
traveling around the country presenting classic plays in rural communities.

In a telephone interview Ms. Carey described the project's goal as promoting a
national conversation on American identity. ''If these plays can be part of a
conversation about who we are, so that we can create a shared vocabulary and a
shared understanding of even broadly defined values and goals, how much easier
will it be to move forward?'' she said. ''We have so many decisions to make that
are being stymied by a very confusing and fractured discourse.''

With that in mind, Ms. Carey said, the festival hopes to raise money to help
support the initial productions of some of the plays at other theaters. She said
that the total cost of the cycle was hard to estimate but that so far the
festival had raised $1.37 million toward the commissions and the first two
productions.

The Oregon Shakespeare Festival, which is celebrating its 75th anniversary this
year, produces 11 plays in repertory -- four of them by Shakespeare -- in a
season that runs from February through October. Among the other offerings this
season are Ping Chong's adaptation of the Kurosawa film ''Throne of Blood,''
based on ''Macbeth,'' which is scheduled to come to the Brooklyn Academy of
Music in the fall; the Pulitzer Prize-winning ''Ruined'' by Lynn Nottage; and
the Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick musical ''She Loves Me.''

In 2011 the festival will present the second play in the history cycle: ''Ghost
Light,'' written by Tony Taccone and directed by Jonathan Moscone. A
co-production with the Berkeley Repertory Theater in California, where Mr.
Taccone is the artistic director, ''Ghost Light'' was developed by both men. It
is about Mr. Moscone's relationship with his father, Mayor George Moscone of San
Francisco, who was assassinated in 1978 by a former city supervisor, Dan White,
who also killed the gay-rights activist Harvey Milk.

The play explores the delayed effects on the younger Mr. Moscone of his father's
death when he was 14. Ms. Carey said that the story was not what most people
would expect from a history play because it was so intimate and traced ''how a
very public event in history went through the life of one individual.''

The project's other playwrights include three Pulitzer winners -- Suzan-Lori
Parks (''Topdog/Underdog''), Robert Schenkkan (''The Kentucky Cycle'') and Ms.
Nottage -- as well as David Henry Hwang, Naomi Wallace and younger artists like
Young Jean Lee (''The Shipment''); Quiara Alegria Hudes (the book for ''In the
Heights''); Kristoffer Diaz (''The Elaborate Entrance of Chad Deity''); the
composer Michael Friedman (''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson''), who is creating an
original musical; and Universes, a poetry-and-hip-hop-influenced theater
ensemble from New York.

Mr. Schenkkan's play, about Lyndon B. Johnson's early presidency, leading up to
passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, had a workshop in Ashland last month.
And Universes was here last week, working with a group of actors on a play about
the histories of the Black Panther Party and the Puerto Rican nationalist group
the Young Lords. Ms. Carey declined to identify the topics chosen by other
playwrights so far but said they would not all be about the late 20th century.

Engaging with American history seems to be rewarding for the actors in Ashland.
In ''American Night'' Kimberly Scott plays an almost forgotten historical
figure, an African-American woman from West Texas named Viola Pettus, who during
the 1918 flu epidemic nursed the children of whites, blacks and Mexicans.

''There are a couple of times when I come offstage, and it's like a body blow
because of the story we're telling,'' Ms. Scott said. ''There are a lot of funny
things, but there is an emotional weight because it's so immediate.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alison Carey, who oversees a program called American
Revolutions: The United States History Cycle for the Oregon Shakespeare
Festival. Top, scenes from the program's first production, ''American Night: The
Ballad of Juan Jose.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OREGON SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL
 JENNY GRAHAM)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 27, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside the Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


International

JAPAN'S LEADER FACES BATTLE

For Control of His Party

After just three months in office, Prime Minister Naoto Kan of Japan faces a
challenge from Ichiro Ozawa, a scandal-tainted power broker within his own party
in a leadership race that could hamper the government's response to a
debilitating economic slowdown. PAGE A4

KREMLIN HALTS FOREST ROAD

For years, environmentalists have risked arrests in their efforts to halt the
construction of a highway linking Moscow to St. Petersburg that they say would
destroy the Khimki forest. But supporters of the forest were handed a surprising
victory when President Dmitri A. Medvedev postponed construction of the highway.
PAGE A4

AFGHAN WORKERS ABDUCTED

Ten campaign workers for a female parliamentary candidate in western Afghanistan
were abducted by gunmen and the Taliban claimed responsibility for two deadly
attacks, one that killed eight Afghan police officers and another that killed
two Spanish police trainers and a translator a day earlier. PAGE A6

CARTER TO LEAVE KOREA

Former President Jimmy Carter was expected to leave North Korea with Aijalon
Mahli Gomes, an American who was sentenced to eight years of hard labor for
illegally entering the country, the Carter Center said. PAGE A8

National

IMMIGRATION AGENCY

Ends Some Deportations

Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials have started to cancel the
deportations of thousands of immigrants they have detained, a policy they said
would pare huge case backlogs in the immigration courts and help focus efforts
on catching immigrants who pose a threat to national security. PAGE A14

BLAGOJEVICH TRIAL PLANNED

A second trial for Rod R. Blagojevich, the ousted governor of Illinois, is
expected to start in January, but he will no longer be tried alongside his older
brother, Robert Blagojevich, since prosecutors dropped charges against him. PAGE
A10

PANEL PRESSES BP'S RECORD

Federal investigators pressed senior BP officials about whether the company had
safety problems even before the Deepwater Horizon oil rig disaster. PAGE A13

New York

SUSPECT IN CAB STABBINGS

Showed Zeal for Veterans

The accusation that Michael Enright attacked a cabdriver because he is Muslim
has mystified many who know him. Some wonder whether the five weeks he spent in
Afghanistan's Helmand Province left him experiencing the same types of stress
that have afflicted many veterans. PAGE A17

Business

A BIG SURPRISE:

Troubled Asset Program

American taxpayers are already poised to make unexpected billions from rescuing
the nation's banks. Now, they could reap another big profit from a government
program devised to purge troubled real estate assets from the financial system.
PAGE B1

TURBINES AGITATE MILITARY

The United States military has found a new menace hiding in the Mojave Desert in
California: wind turbines, which can be indistinguishable from airplanes on many
radar systems. PAGE B1

Weekend

HAVE YOUR BRUNCH

And Listen to It Too

Among New York City's many brunches are those that come with a live soundtrack.
Music can energize the meal, making brunch more of an extension of weekend
nights than a defeated epilogue. PAGE C1

Sports

NATURE OF WILLIAMS'S INJURY

Remains a Sore Subject

Although Serena Williams did not invent an injury to excuse herself from
returning to the scene of her infamous foot fault, the subject of her injury
remains in need of further explanation. PAGE B10

Obituaries

C. JOSEPH GENSTER, 92

He masterminded the marketing of Metrecal, the meal in a can for dieters that
swept America at the beginning of the 1960s. PAGE B9

Op-Ed

DAVID BROOKS PAGE A19

VIDEO The French actor Vincent Cassel discusses his role in ''Mesrine: Killer
Instinct,'' about a criminal who was a folk hero to some.

nytimes.com/movies

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            September 3, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

When Immigrants Took New Names

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 617 words


To the Editor:

Re ''Finding a New Life in America No Longer Means a New Name'' (front page,
Aug. 26):

Your interesting article about immigrants' name changes set me to thinking. I
was born Hans Walter Stern in Frankfurt, Germany. When my parents decided to
come to the United States with me in 1936, we were told that names like Hans and
Fritz were frowned on here because of their Nazi connotation. So I took the Hans
and made it my middle initial. I now regret it.

Had I known then that I would make my living as a writer (including on the staff
of The New York Times many years ago), I would not have done it. A byline like
Hans Walter Stern would have been far more distinctive.

But it's a bit late now.

Walter H. Stern Roslyn Harbor, N.Y., Aug. 26, 2010

To the Editor:

Your analysis of name-change petitions argues that fewer immigrants are
Anglicizing their names now than in the early 20th century. Many may interpret
this trend as a threat, a signal that immigrants are no longer embracing
American values.

Yet it is important to note that name changing in civil court has historically
been a practice of native-born Americans, not immigrants. The height of name
changing in New York City Civil Court took place between 1940 and 1960 -- years
of low immigration. And throughout those years, it was the children of
immigrants, rather than immigrants themselves, who Anglicized their names in
Civil Court. In 1942, 84 percent of the thousands of name-change petitioners to
the court were native-born Americans.

Those native-born Americans were responding to xenophobic and anti-Semitic
discrimination, not simply assimilating to American life.

Kirsten Fermaglich East Lansing, Mich., Aug. 29, 2010

The writer, an associate professor of history and Jewish studies at Michigan
State University, is writing a book about the history of name changing in the
20th century.

To the Editor:

I will always remember my own naturalization hearing in New York City, at which
I was asked: ''Would you like to change your name? Now is your chance.''

A bit taken aback by this unexpected opportunity to ''Americanize'' my identity,
I cockily (but obviously with tongue in cheek) answered, ''O.K., how about
Rockefeller?'' Nelson A. Rockefeller was then governor of New York, and his
large framed photo was staring in my face.

The immigration officer was not amused. ''No, no, no, you can't do that, but how
about Gold or Berger?''

''No thanks,'' I replied. ''I'll just stick with Goldberger.''

Leo Goldberger Housatonic, Mass., Aug. 26, 2010

To the Editor:

While name changes for some immigrants to the United States were voluntary, that
was not the case for many immigrants, especially those arriving without
documents.

Many of the government processors were unfamiliar with foreign names. They took
it upon themselves to enter a name they felt was ''American'' and proper,
thereby dictating a new name, brandished on the immigration papers, with no
choice for the immigrant.

Hence my Uncle Ignacio became Harry and Uncle Giacomo became Jimmy. Immigrant
name changing was not as benign as your article suggests.

Bartholomew Russo Aiken, S.C., Aug. 26, 2010

To the Editor:

Your article reminded me of a conversation I had before giving an academic
lecture at an Ivy League university many years ago.

''How do you want to be introduced?'' my host asked.

I replied that just the title of my paper need be given, since colleagues and
students there knew me.

''No,'' he explained, ''how do you want me to pronounce your name? Is it
SilverSTEEN or SilverSTINE? You know, we get so little call for names like that
around here.''

''Don't bother,'' I said. ''Just use its form before we changed it -- Smith.''

Michael Silverstein Chicago, Aug. 26, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ERIK MARINOVICH)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 10, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Inside The Times

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words


International

POLICE MAY HAVE SHOT

Tourists, Philippines Says

The Philippine government acknowledged for the first time that some of the Hong
Kong tourists killed aboard a hijacked bus last month in Manila might have died
from police fire. PAGE A4

CHINESE LAWYER IS RELEASED

Chen Guangcheng, a lawyer imprisoned by the Chinese authorities in 2006 after
exposing government abuses, was released but confined to his home in Shandong
Province, surrounded by guards. PAGE A6

BANKER RESIGNS AMID FUROR

Germany's central bank announced that it agreed to part ways with Thilo
Sarrazin, the author of a recently released book on immigration that caused a
firestorm by accusing Muslims of refusing to integrate into German society. PAGE
A6

IRAN TO RELEASE ONE HIKER

Iran plans to release Sarah E. Shourd, one of the three American hikers detained
and accused of spying last year. PAGE A8

SOMALI AIRPORT IS ATTACKED

Suicide bombers attacked Mogadishu's main airport shortly after a high-level
United Nations delegation met with Somali officials in an attempt to resolve an
escalating internal political dispute. PAGE A9

National

COURT REJECTS CITY'S EFFORTS

To Restrict Immigrants

A federal appeals court upheld a lower court ruling striking down ordinances
adopted by the city of Hazleton, Pa., that barred illegal immigrants from
renting housing or being employed there. PAGE A10

A VIDEO GAME GOES TOO FAR

A number of combat video games develop from a close working relationship between
video game producers and the military. But there is a rupture in that
relationship after the Army, Air Force and Navy said they would refuse to sell
on their bases a game that allows a user to become a Taliban fighter and attack
United States troops. PAGE A10

STEM CELL BAN ENDS FORNOW

A federal appeals court ruled that federal financing of embryonic stem cell
research could continue while the court considers a judge's order last month
that banned the government from underwriting the work. PAGE A12

SCHOOLS FACE SUITS OVER FEES

Public schools across the nation, many facing budget shortfalls, have been
charging students fees to use textbooks or to take required tests or courses.
Now a civil liberties group is suing California over those proliferating fees,
arguing that the state has failed to protect the right to a free public
education. PAGE A12

Business

WITH WHITE HOUSE BACKING,

A Manufacturing Emissary

Trying to reinvigorate manufacturing's presence in the American economy,
President Obama has named Ron Bloom, a Harvard M.B.A. who has worked both on
Wall Street and in the labor movement, as a special adviser to help tackle the
problem. Mr. Bloom's tools, however, are limited. PAGE B1

Sports

TURKEY CHANNELED TV SHOW

As Basketball Caught On

The television series ''White Shadow'' was about a former N.B.A. player whose
career was cut short by a knee injury and who takes over as coach of a high
school basketball team. Surprisingly, Turkey's rapid rise as a basketball power
can be traced, in part, to the series, which appeared on TV there from 1980 to
1982. PAGE B10

Weekend

GOODNESS GRACIOUS!

A Meeting of Two Killers

Levi Kreis, the actor who plays Jerry Lee Lewis in ''Million Dollar Quartet,''
recently met the real-life Mr. Lewis. Sure, it was public relations that brought
them together, but rock 'n' roll's Killer will also take the stage to play with
the cast of the Broadway musical. PAGE C1

Obituaries

THOMAS GUINZBURG, 84

An editor and publisher who helped create The Paris Review, the enduring lion of
American literary magazines, he later became president of Viking Press, the
publishing house founded by his father. PAGE A21

Op-ed

DAVID BROOKS PAGE A23

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Comic Twist On Political Chatter

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 930 words


Stephen Colbert testified in Congress on Friday about an immigration bill that
he said -- in all truthiness -- he had not read, ''like most members of
Congress.''

And when the comedian was challenged by one disgruntled lawmaker about his
expertise, which was based on a single day spent hamming it up in a bean field
for his show on Comedy Central, Mr. Colbert, keeping completely in character,
said that was enough time to make him an expert on anything.

Mr. Colbert testified before the House immigration subcommittee about the day he
recently spent picking vegetables on a farm in upstate New York. The gig was
part of the ''Take Our Jobs'' campaign by the United Farm Workers of America to
highlight the work done by migrant workers.

Arturo S. Rodriguez, the president of U.F.W., testified among others alongside
Mr. Colbert.

Before Mr. Colbert bounded into the unusually packed committee room, the buzz in
the crowd was whether Mr. Colbert would show up as the satiric Stephen Colbert,
who hosts the ''The Colbert Report.'' He did.

Representative Zoe Lofgren, a California Democrat and the panel's chairwoman who
invited Mr. Colbert to testify, opened on a slightly wry note.

''We realize there is great interest in the plight of migrant farm workers in
America,'' Ms. Lofgren said, before asking the press to pull back from the
witness table where Mr. Colbert was mugging for and winking at the cameras.

Representative John Conyers, a Michigan Democrat, seemingly miffed, suggested
that Mr. Colbert ''excuse yourself'' from speaking. Looking baffled, Mr. Colbert
said he did not understand the question, and threw himself on the mercy of the
chairwoman, who allowed that he should stay.

On the whole, the mood of the hearing alternated between the serious and the
absurd. (His spoken testimony departed significantly from his prepared text,
which was straightforward and earnest.)

''I certainly hope that my star power can pump this hearing all the way up to
C-Span 1,'' Mr. Colbert said, before explaining that the ''obvious answer is for
all of us to stop eating fruits and vegetables - and if you look at the recent
obesity statistics you'll see that many Americans have already started.''

But, he continued, his gastroenterologist had explained to him that fruits and
vegetables are an important source of ''roughage'' and said that he ''would like
to submit a video of my colonoscopy into The Congressional Record.''

''I don't want a tomato picked by a Mexican - I want it picked by an American,
then sliced by a Guatemalan, and served by a Venezuelan in a spa where a Chilean
gives me a Brazilian,'' Mr. Colbert said, before turning just perceptibly more
serious and talking about how difficult work as a farm worker was.

''After working with these men and women, picking beans, packing corn, for hours
on end, side by side, in the unforgiving sun, I have to say and I do mean this
sincerely: Please don't make me do this again, it is really, really hard,'' he
said.

''The point is, we have to do something because I am not going back out there.
At this point, I break into a cold sweat at the sight of a salad bar,'' he said.

Five minutes later, much to the disappointment of the crowd, Mr. Colbert was
done. ''U.S.A. No. 1,'' he said to wrap up his testimony.

Mr. Colbert had only a supporting role in the question-and-answer segment of the
hearing, although Representative Lamar Smith did go back and forth with the
comedian. The Texas Republican asked the comedian for particulars -- if Mr.
Colbert knew if the roughly 100 workers he worked alongside with were illegal
immigrants and whether he knew their salary. Mr. Colbert could not provide this
information.

''Does one day in the field make you an expert witness?'' Mr. Smith pressed.

''I believe that one day of me studying anything makes me an expert,'' Mr.
Colbert replied.

Not everyone was amused. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, declared
in his opening statement that it was an insult to the troops at war to suggest
that Americans don't like hard jobs.

''Maybe we should be spending less time watching Comedy Central and more time
considering all the real jobs that are out there,'' he said.

Near the end of the hearing, Mr. Colbert turned sincere, giving a serious answer
when asked a serious question by Representative Judy Chu, Democrat of
California, about why he had chosen to donate his time to the plight of migrant
farm workers out of all possible causes.

Mr. Colbert paused, scratched the back of his head and sounding almost surprised
at himself replied, ''I like talking about people who don't have any power, and
it seems like one of the least powerful people in the United States are migrant
workers who come and do our work but don't have any rights themselves,'' he
said. ''Migrant workers suffer and have no rights.''

This is not the comedian's first foray into politics. In 2007, Mr. Colbert paid
the $2,500 fee and filed papers with the South Carolina Democratic Party to run
for president in his home state's primary. He was rejected just hours later by
the state's executive council.

And in October, Mr. Colbert will return to Washington with fellow Comedy Central
host, Jon Stewart, for rallies on the National Mall. Mr. Colbert will headline
the ''March to Keep Fear Alive'' while Mr. Stewart will lead the ''Rally to
Restore Sanity,'' but both are intended as a spoof of conservative radio and
television personality Glenn Beck's ''Restoring Honor'' rally in late August.

(C-Span has posted the entire hearing.)

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DREW ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 10, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Specialists' Help at the Supreme Court Can Come With a Catch

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE ROBERTS COURT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2567 words


WASHINGTON -- Humberto Fernandez-Vargas, deported to Mexico, had run out of
options. A federal appeals court said he could not return to the United States
to live with his American wife and son. And his lawyer did not have the
expertise or money to pursue the case further.

Then the cavalry arrived. Leading lawyers from around the country, sensing that
the case was one of the rare ones that might reach the Supreme Court, called to
offer free help. Mr. Fernandez-Vargas's immigration lawyer was delighted, and he
chose a lawyer from a prominent firm here.

But there was a catch, and then a controversy. The catch was that the Washington
lawyer, David M. Gossett, would take the case only if he could argue before the
Supreme Court himself.

The controversy was that groups representing immigrants were furious, suspicious
of the new lawyer's interest in the case and fearful of a Supreme Court ruling
that would curtail the rights of immigrants nationwide.

Indeed, Mr. Gossett faced a barrage of hostile questions from the justices, and
in June 2006 the court ruled against his client, 8 to 1. The ruling wiped out
decisions in much of the nation -- notably from the federal appeals court in
California -- that had favored immigrants.

Mr. Gossett is among an increasingly influential cadre of lawyers specializing
in Supreme Court cases, attracted to the importance and intellectual challenge
of the work. Many are willing to serve without charge to draw prestige and
paying clients to their firms.

Thirty years ago, 6 percent of cases accepted by the court were brought by
lawyers specializing in Supreme Court advocacy, according to data compiled by
Richard J. Lazarus, a law professor at the Georgetown University Law Center and
faculty director of its Supreme Court Institute.

In the term that ended in 2008, the number topped 50 percent for the first time.
Many of the cases involved businesses that paid large fees, but a good number
were for clients who could not afford a lawyer and have historically been
represented, if at all, by public interest lawyers.

Overburdened public interest lawyers might be expected to welcome the
high-powered help. But the old guard is often wary of, if not hostile toward,
the new breed of skilled and ambitious advocates, fearing that they are more
interested in the glory of a Supreme Court argument than in what is best for
their clients and the development of the law.

''There's one and only one reason they're interested,'' Barry A. Schwartz, a
criminal defense lawyer in Denver, said of many of the dozen or so lawyers who
called him after he had won an appeals court decision on an issue that was
likely to reach the Supreme Court. ''It's not because they love your client or
believe in the legal principle your case presents. They want to get the case
into the Supreme Court.''

A related development has only heightened the competition. Starting in 2004,
leading law schools created student clinics focused solely on the court, all
affiliated with prominent law firms. The result has been an intense struggle to
find and press cases with Supreme Court potential.

Law firms trying to build or maintain credible Supreme Court practices must show
paying clients that they have a consistent presence in the court, and law school
clinics have to provide work to the students. Separately and in combination,
firms and clinics offer their services free to poor clients in exchange for
taking a lead role in the case. That means people with legal troubles but no
money can end up with a top-tier lawyer with deep experience before the court.

The specialists respond to critics by pointing to data showing that their record
in the court is quite good. They say their ethical obligations are to the
individuals they represent and not to the agendas of interest groups.

But public interest lawyers say firms and clinics have sometimes pushed the
wrong cases. ''It's not in every client's interest to be in the Supreme Court,''
said John H. Blume, a law professor at Cornell and the director of its Death
Penalty Project, which conducts research and allows students to work on capital
cases at all levels of the court system. ''If you're in the get-to-the-podium
business, it could compromise your judgment.''

Mr. Gossett, a partner with the Mayer Brown law firm, said his case was not an
example of skewed incentives. ''We devoted hundreds of hours, and maybe
thousands, and I continue to believe we did so to the best of our ability,'' he
said. Of the decisions the firm faced, he said, ''I think we made every one
right.''

He added that his obligations were to his client. Mr. Fernandez-Vargas was
deported after two decades in the United States, separated from his family. ''I
gave us a 30 percent chance of winning,'' Mr. Gossett said. ''I therefore had a
client who had a 30 percent chance of being reunited with his wife and child in
the United States.''

J. Christopher Keen, Mr. Fernandez-Vargas's original lawyer, also dismissed the
widespread criticism from immigrant rights groups, saying they were not
sufficiently alert to the human stakes in the case.

Mr. Keen attended the Supreme Court argument with his client's wife, Rita
Fernandez, and he consoled her after she heard cutting remarks about her husband
from Justice Antonin Scalia. ''I was on the front steps of the Supreme Court
while she cried after Scalia called him 'a two-time loser,' '' Mr. Keen said.

Still, he said, ''if you're thinking strategically, maybe it wasn't the best
case.''

A Loss Leader

As recently as 1987, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist remarked that the days
of a few great advocates appearing regularly before the Supreme Court were gone.
''There is no such Supreme Court bar at the present time,'' he said.

A little more than two decades later, the fanciest firms not only represent
corporations for handsome fees but also fight to offer their services free to
poor clients in exchange for a half-hour at the Supreme Court lectern. Handling
cases pro bono has turned into a loss leader and reputation enhancer.

Lots of lawyers are members of the Supreme Court bar in a nominal way. All it
takes is a check for $200, three years as a lawyer, being a member of a state
bar and securing the sponsorship of two lawyers who can already practice in the
court. More than 250,000 lawyers have been members of the Supreme Court bar over
the years, and almost none will ever argue before the court.

Indeed, the court has said that trumpeting the mere admission to its bar as
significant ''could be misleading to the general public'' and is ''at least bad
taste.''

The specialists are another matter.

Professor Lazarus developed a definition of Supreme Court expertise that is now
in general use. A Supreme Court specialist, he says, is one who has argued five
cases in the court or is affiliated with a practice whose current members have
argued at least 10. He concedes ''some inexactitude at the margins'' but says
the overall trends showing the quite recent dominance of the docket by this
group are undeniable.

A pioneer in this area was Thomas C. Goldstein, now with Akin Gump Strauss Hauer
& Feld. A decade ago, he developed a technique to spot the cases most likely to
attract the court's attention -- those in which two or more federal appeals
courts had decided the same legal issue differently. Then he offered to handle
such cases free, cold-calling surprised and often delighted local lawyers. In
his first four years, he argued eight cases in the court, winning four.

Mr. Goldstein's competitors sneered.

''If I'm going to have heart bypass surgery, I wouldn't go to the surgeon who
calls me up,'' Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., who argued 39 cases before the
court before joining it in 2005, told The American Lawyer in 2000. ''I'd look
for the guy who's too busy for that.''

Four years later, Chief Justice Roberts, by then an appeals court judge, said
the rise of the specialized Supreme Court bar had ''had something of a snowball
effect.''

''If one side hires a Supreme Court specialist to present a case,'' he told the
Supreme Court Historical Society in 2004, ''it may cause the client on the other
side to think that they ought to consider doing that as well. This is just a
variant on the old adage that one lawyer in town will starve, but two will
prosper.''

The first law school Supreme Court clinic, at Stanford, started in 2004. It has
been joined by similar clinics at Harvard, Northwestern, Pennsylvania, Texas,
Virginia and Yale.

Experts Versus Amateurs

The new specialists have not only prospered but have also compiled an impressive
record. During the last six years, they have won much more often than relative
amateurs, according to statistics compiled by Jeffrey L. Fisher, a director of
the Stanford clinic, for a coming article. (He used essentially the same
definition of experts as Professor Lazarus and considered the 292 cases in which
one of the parties was an individual who was, or could have been, represented by
the clinic. He thus excluded cases involving, say, disputes between two
corporations or two states.)

As a general matter, the justices are more likely to reverse than affirm the
decisions they review. Professor Fisher explored the gaps between experts and
amateurs both when they represented individuals as petitioners -- the parties
bringing the appeals, and so the likely winners -- and when they represented
individuals on the other side, known as respondents.

Experts not affiliated with the clinic who brought appeals won 67 percent of the
time, compared with 46 percent for others. When representing those responding to
appeals, they won 29 percent of the time, versus 16 percent.

The Stanford clinic has generally been even more successful. In the 35 cases it
has argued before the court, it, too, won 67 percent of the time when
representing petitioners but did substantially better than expert counsel in
representing respondents, winning 46 percent of the time.

Winning on the merits is not the only way to measure success. The Supreme Court
agrees to hear about one in a hundred petitions seeking review. In the Stanford
clinic's first year, the court agreed to hear its first four petitions.

''Not so long ago,'' Professor Lazarus wrote in The Georgetown Law Journal in
2008, ''only the most accomplished private sector Supreme Court advocates could
claim to have persuaded the court to grant four petitions in an entire career.''

The clinic, which includes a dozen second- and third-year students who take no
other classes for three months and often work 60 to 80 hours a week, has handled
more than 100 Supreme Court cases in a little over six years. Its success in
persuading the court to hear cases has dropped, but only to 42 percent, which is
almost certainly better than any practice in the nation except for the solicitor
general's office, which represents the federal government.

Other clinics are now in the hunt, too. Indeed, the last term included the first
case with lawyers affiliated with clinics on both sides. It was an international
custody dispute, and the side that included the Stanford clinic prevailed over
the one that included the clinic at the University of Pennsylvania.

But like the pro bono lawyers specializing in the Supreme Court, the clinics
have sometimes found themselves at odds with public interest lawyers focused on
the careful development of the law. Lawyers concerned with criminal defense,
capital punishment, immigration and civil liberties often try to keep cases out
of the Supreme Court, which they view as hostile.

When the court agreed to hear a case on the exclusionary rule at the urging of
the Stanford clinic in 2008, for instance, criminal defense lawyers groaned,
saying nothing good would come of it. When a 5-to-4 decision was handed down
last year, it cut back significantly on the rule, which requires the suppression
of some evidence obtained through police misconduct.

In an article to be published next year in The New York University Law Review,
Nancy Morawetz, a clinical law professor at N.Y.U., explored what she calls the
''distorted incentives in Supreme Court pro bono practice.''

''The competition for cases that may be heard by the Supreme Court on the
merits,'' she wrote, ''creates a disincentive to the new Supreme Court bar to
engage in full case analysis prior to accepting a case for representation.''

There is nothing new or exceptional about tension between lawyers seeking to
move the law in a particular direction and those focused on representing a
particular client.

Not everyone agreed with Thurgood Marshall's incremental litigation strategy in
the battle to desegregate public education. Many gay rights advocates opposed
the lawsuit brought by David Boies and Theodore B. Olson challenging
California's ban on same-sex marriage, fearing that it would result in a
negative decision if the issue reached the Supreme Court too soon.

Nor is there anything unusual about conflicts between the interests of lawyers
and their clients. But all of these tensions are heightened in Supreme Court
practice.

''It's more pointed and more obvious,'' said Pamela S. Karlan, who directs the
Stanford clinic with Professor Fisher, ''because there are so few opportunities
and the competition is so fierce.''

A Frustrating Lesson

Distorted incentives were in play in the case of Mr. Fernandez-Vargas, Professor
Morawetz wrote, calling the case ''a model of what not to do.''

Mr. Fernandez-Vargas was a Mexican citizen who re-entered the country illegally
in 1982 after being deported. When he applied for permanent resident status more
than two decades later, he was arrested and deported again.

The question in the case was whether a 1996 law denying relief to immigrants who
had re-entered the country illegally applied to him even though he had come back
before the law was enacted.

In 2005, the United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit, in Denver,
ruled against Mr. Fernandez-Vargas, saying he was covered by the 1996 law. That
decision was at odds with ones from the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit, which hears cases from much of the West and so has a heavy
immigration docket.

The Supreme Court sided with the 10th Circuit, effectively overturning the Ninth
Circuit's rulings. Only Justice John Paul Stevens dissented.

Justice Stevens's opinion was notable, said Mr. Gossett, who had argued the case
for Mr. Fernandez-Vargas. ''The fact that Justice Stevens's dissent tracked our
argument has always reassured me that we framed the case correctly,'' he said.
''Unfortunately, the rest of the court disagreed not only with us but also with
Justice Stevens.''

Immigration lawyers say they learned a lesson from the experience.
''Fernandez-Vargas was a turning point,'' said Trina Realmuto of the National
Immigration Project of the National Lawyers Guild. ''Immigration advocates
realized we needed to be proactive about working together with the pro bono
bar.''

She added, ''Noncitizens with even more compelling cases are still living with
the consequences of the Fernandez-Vargas decision.''

Mr. Gossett said Professor Morawetz had chosen the wrong example in focusing on
his case. ''But there is some truth,'' he said, ''to her point that the
specialized Supreme Court bar is in it for the Supreme Court work.''

The Roberts Court: Articles in this series are exploring the workings of this
Supreme Court and the little-understood forces that influence it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeffrey L. Fisher with students in the Stanford law clinic that
focuses on Supreme Court litigation, which has generally done better than others
in its cases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
J. Christopher Keen, left, represented Humberto Fernandez-Vargas, who had been
deported. David M. Gossett, center, offered to argue the case in the Supreme
Court. He lost, and Mr. Fernandez-Vargas left behind a wife, Rita Fernandez,
right, and a son. The ruling erased decisions favorable to immigrants.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE MORGENTHAU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
KEITH JOHNSON/DESERET MORNING NEWS) (A22) CHARTS: Specializing in the Supreme
Court: Expert Supreme Court advocates are responsible for an increasing
percentage of the cases the court agrees to hear
and firms and law school clinics specializing in the Supreme Court win at the
merits stage more often than lawyers without as much experience. (Sources:
Richard J. Lazarus, Georgetown University (petitions)
 Jeffrey L. Fisher, Stanford (success rates)) (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Congressional Race Saves an Unlikely Role for Human Rights

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 974 words


SANTA ANA, Calif. -- The flagging economy came up, of course. So did the high
unemployment rate. But it is not every Congressional debate that turns on the
question of how to improve human rights in Vietnam.

Yet there were Loretta Sanchez, a Latina Democrat, and Van Tran, a
Vietnamese-born Republican, eagerly discussing their credentials in fighting for
human rights in Vietnam on behalf of the voters of California's 47th
Congressional District.

Ms. Sanchez wore the yellow and red colors of the former South Vietnam flag, a
symbol of pride in the large enclave of Vietnamese refugees here in Orange
County. During the debate Wednesday, she proudly recounted being kicked out of
Vietnam during a recent visit because, as she put it, ''I talked to the
dissidents.'' Mr. Tran dismissed this as just talk.

Soon their focus turned to the question of granting amnesty to illegal
immigrants, with each candidate walking a fine line to avoid alienating both
conservatives and Mexican-American voters. All in all, it was a kind of
tri-cultural debate in a place formerly known as the land of Richard Nixon and
John Wayne.

In this central part of Orange County, once a Republican bastion, immigrants now
make up more than half of the population. For the last 14 years, Ms. Sanchez has
been the sole Democrat in the county's Congressional delegation and, as a
daughter of Mexican immigrants, a potent symbol of power in the predominantly
Mexican community. But she is now facing her toughest battle since she ousted
the conservative Robert K. Dornan, as Republican leaders see Mr. Tran as their
best chance at snatching back the seat.

The race has attracted big names -- former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York
campaigned with Mr. Tran and former President Bill Clinton is scheduled to
headline a rally for Ms. Sanchez on Friday.

Mr. Tran, a state assemblyman who is a formidable power in the Vietnamese
political community, has managed to amass more than $1 million, he said. The
Sanchez campaign declined to release its most recent fund-raising figures, but
in June the campaign had nearly $1.3 million on hand.

Although there has been little public polling, a recent survey by a conservative
group showed Mr. Tran within striking distance of the incumbent. He is counting
on a base of conservative voters -- whom he called ''anti-incumbent,
anti-Democrat and anti-Sanchez'' -- and the Vietnamese community to propel him
to a win next month. Ms. Sanchez is clearly feeling the pressure, calling him a
''failed Sacramento politician'' in the hopes that voters like their state
leaders even less than they like their Washington ones.

''I would never go on some kind of suicide mission,'' Mr. Tran said in a recent
interview near his office in a part of town known as Little Saigon. ''This area
has one of the lowest Congressional turnouts, so you can put your arms around
the coalition relatively easily. A substantial number of people will cross party
lines to vote with their background.''

During a September interview with Univision, Ms. Sanchez remarked that ''the
Vietnamese'' and Republicans were trying to take the seat from her, a comment
that Mr. Tran seized on and that sent an uproar through the conservative
blogosphere. Ms. Sanchez has since said that she was referring only to Mr.
Tran's supporters.

''Yes, those Vietnamese and Republicans who are supporting him are trying to
take the office -- that's what an election is about,'' Ms. Sanchez said. ''But
to say that I was on a racist rampage is just ridiculous.''

After news of Ms. Sanchez's comments surfaced, Mr. Tran said she was a ''trying
to create a wedge where there isn't one.'' He said there had rarely been
tensions between the two communities.

For its part, Ms. Sanchez's campaign bristled at a particularly nasty Tran
campaign mailer, a hefty booklet in Vietnamese that showed several unflattering
photographs of Ms. Sanchez, including one of her speaking with Ramon Castro,
Fidel Castro's oldest brother, in Cuba -- a potentially powerful image for those
who fled Communism. (Mr. Tran has also taken to repeatedly using the term
''socialist conspiracy'' when referring to Ms. Sanchez's votes for the economic
stimulus and health care bills.)

In a list comparing the candidates, the leaflet described Mr. Tran's beliefs as
''conservative and maintaining traditional Asian values.'' It pointed out that
Ms. Sanchez was divorced and described her way of life with a term that roughly
translates to ''loose'' or ''carefree.''

While the Vietnamese community makes up roughly 9 percent of the vote here,
history has shown that these residents go to the polls in far larger numbers
than their Latino counterparts, who are estimated at more than 60 percent of
registered voters and make up a substantial part of Ms. Sanchez's base. Her
supporters acknowledge that a low turnout could hand Mr. Tran a victory.

The Vietnamese community here is hardly new -- refugees began flocking to
Westminster, just six miles west, in the 1970s. But they have come to political
power more slowly.

''The real change is the heightened understanding, the heightened interest of
that community -- there has been a bump in the numbers of the Vietnamese in the
school board and City Council,'' said Adam D. Probolsky, a Republican political
strategist. ''These communities have a new sense of empowerment and a new
organized effort to elect some of their own.''

Claudia Alvarez, a Santa Ana city councilwoman and supporter of Ms. Sanchez said
it was unfortunate that ''two communities are really fighting over the same
pieces of the pie,'' rather than electing another immigrant from other parts of
the county.

''There is a lot of cynical attitude in the Hispanic community and the sense
that nothing in government matters,'' Ms. Alvarez said. ''My fear is we are
going to lose because of that divide and apathy.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Loretta Sanchez, Democrat of California, and her
Republican challenger, Van Tran, prepared Wednesday for their debate in central
Orange County. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAL CZERWONKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP:
California's 47th District: Loretta Sanchez, the lone Democratic Congressional
delegate from Orange County, Calif., is facing her toughest battle for
re-election. The Republican challenger, Van Tran, is relying on a coalition of
conservative and Vietnamese voters.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

1 In 5 Americans Have Close Ties Elsewhere

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WASHINGTON; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 143 words


Nearly one in five Americans are either immigrants or were born in the United
States to at least one parent from abroad, the Census Bureau said Tuesday. The
second generation was more likely to be better educated and earn more and less
likely to be living in poverty. ''This suggests that the children of immigrants
are continuing to assimilate over time as they have in past generations,'' said
Elizabeth M. Grieco, chief of the bureau's Foreign-Born Population Branch. The
bureau said that in 2009, 12 percent of the population, or 36.7 million people,
were immigrants and that 11 percent, or 33 million, were the children of at
least one immigrant parent. Among the foreign born, 29 percent had a bachelor's
degree and 31 percent earned more than $50,000. Among the second generation, 33
percent had a bachelor's degree and 42 percent made more than $50,000.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 22, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Panel Is Facing Deadline On Immigrants' Pardons

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1090 words


In May, as the federal government increased deportations and some states sought
to tighten immigration enforcement, Gov. David A. Paterson caused a national
stir by announcing a push in the opposite direction: a state effort to speed the
granting of pardons to immigrants facing deportation for old or minor criminal
convictions.

Nearly six months later, that initiative is finally coming to fruition -- with
little time to spare.

Hundreds of petitions from legal permanent residents for pardons have swamped
the New York governor's office, and a special clemency panel is rushing to sift
through them and make recommendations to Mr. Paterson before his term and the
program end on Dec. 31.

The vast majority of the requests were mailed just before an Oct. 1 deadline,
compelling the panel to double the frequency of its meetings. ''The expectation
is that when all is said and done, there will be well over 1,000'' petitions,
said Morgan Hook, a spokesman for Mr. Paterson. ''We literally have boxes of
them sitting in the hallway.''

Some of the petitions are elaborate, bound documents numbering scores of pages,
with color photographs and affidavits from relatives, employers and others
testifying to the petitioners' worthiness for clemency.

''To some extent this is a competition,'' said Manoj Viswanathon, a lawyer who
filed a petition on behalf of a Frenchman who holds a green card and served
three years in prison in the early 1990s for narcotics and firearm convictions.
''It's like applying to college: there's so much competition, you want to make
your packet stand out.''

But unlike many college applicants, these petitioners are almost completely in
the dark about their chances for success. The Paterson administration will say
little about the decision-making process or how many pardons the governor
expects to issue.

When he announced the formation of the so-called pardon panel, Mr. Paterson
specified that it would recommend pardons only for legal permanent residents --
green card holders -- ''who have contributed as New Yorkers and who deserve
relief from deportation or indefinite detention.''

Some lawyers and immigrant advocates complain that the governor has provided few
guidelines for what makes a strong case.

Margaret Love, a lawyer in Washington who served as the United States pardon
attorney under Presidents George Bush and Bill Clinton, said that lack of
guidelines was not surprising, especially given how new and unusual Mr.
Paterson's program is. ''A pardon historically is a pretty free-form exercise,''
she said. ''One reason governors don't like it is they have to make subjective
decisions about people who by definition are not safe bets. It's scary.''

Mr. Paterson's own record provides scant guidance. Since taking office in March
2008, he has granted only two pardons to legal permanent residents.

In 2008 he gave one to Ricky Walters, the hip-hop musician known as Slick Rick,
who was facing deportation to his native Britain for convictions on attempted
murder and weapons charges dating back 17 years. In March, the governor pardoned
Qing Hong Wu, 29, who had served three years in prison for a number of muggings
committed when he was 15; Mr. Wu went on to become an information technology
executive, yet still faced deportation to China, which he had left at age 2.

The governor cited Mr. Wu's case as one reason for his move to expedite pardons
for other immigrants.

The crimes now under review range from misdemeanors to felonies, and from
turnstile jumping to murder, officials and lawyers said. Some were committed in
recent years, while others date back decades. Most petitioners face deportation
for their convictions, and only a governor's pardon can prevent it, though
officials said that in some cases, including those involving certain gun and
drug crimes, even a pardon would not prevent deportation.

Among the petitioners is Tam Phan, 35, who immigrated to the United States in
1981 at age 6, and grew up in Midwood, Brooklyn. In high school, he fell in with
a gang, and was convicted for his involvement in a series of armed robberies, he
said. He went to prison at 17, and was released in January.

During his 17-year incarceration, he said, he immersed himself in academics,
earning associate's degrees from Bard College and Sage College of Albany, and a
bachelor's degree from Canisius College. He is now pursuing a graduate degree in
urban policy and administration at Brooklyn College and is working part time at
the Fortune Society, a nonprofit organization that helps ex-convicts re-enter
society.

The government is trying to deport him to Vietnam. A pardon, Mr. Phan said,
would allow him to stay in the United States with the rest of his family, all of
whom are American citizens. ''I feel like I'm doing well,'' he said.

All the petitions are being reviewed by the pardon panel, a five-member group
drawn from the governor's office and state agencies, officials said. The panel
refers promising petitions to the Executive Clemency Committee, which recommends
cases to the governor for his review and final determination.

There is no limit on the number of pardons the governor is prepared to grant,
officials in his office said.

National immigration officials have recently focused their resources on catching
and deporting immigrants who have been convicted of crimes or pose a national
security threat. In the last year, the federal government has deported a record
number of people, including a record 195,772 convicted criminals.

Mr. Paterson said in May that he was creating the panel to compensate for an
''extremely inflexible'' federal law.

Lawyers and advocates representing immigrants have praised the initiative.
''People are being deported for indiscretions of their youth, and it's ripping
families apart,'' said Carrie Grimm, the pro bono administrator at the law firm
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, who helped organize a team of lawyers in New
York to file petitions on behalf of former prisoners. The panel, she said, ''is
a fabulous idea and needs to be replicated far and wide.''

A spokesman for the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which calls for
reducing immigration levels, said that while he was not familiar with Mr.
Paterson's panel, ''as a general rule, we would be opposed to governors or other
local officials stacking the deck so that people who could legitimately be
deported get to remain in the country.''

The spokesman, Ira Mehlman, said Mr. Paterson was superseding the authority of
Congress. ''This is not his determination to make,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tam Phan, a convicted armed robber who earned college degrees in
prison, hopes to get a pardon, to avoid deportation to Vietnam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Deportation for Voting?

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 166 words


To the Editor:

Re ''For Some Immigrants, Voting Is a Criminal Act'' (news article, Oct. 17): It
is shameful for a country that prides itself on being a model of democracy to
attempt deportation of noncriminal, taxpaying permanent residents simply for
voting, when most were probably unaware that they are not entitled to vote.

At best, voting laws in this country are complicated and unclear. They represent
a deep history of legal discrimination. You'd be hard-pressed to find
natural-born American citizens who understand the intricacies of voting laws.

The Heritage Foundation seems to be concerned that legal voters are being
disenfranchised, but the only thing disenfranchising them is their own choice.
In the past century, voter turnout has never surpassed 65 percent.

''Real'' American citizens could take a few lessons from the civic behavior of
Joseph E. Joseph, the legal immigrant in your article who is threatened with
deportation for voting.

Erin O'Quinn Chapel Hill, N.C., Oct. 17, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Facing Deportation 2 Decades After Finishing Probation

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 725 words


Eligio Valerio left his home in Washington Heights before dawn on Oct. 20, as he
does every morning, to begin his shift driving a livery cab.

Around 6 a.m., his wife called. Men with badges were at the house - the police
or immigration, she was not sure. But they wanted to speak with him.

Mr. Valerio, 52, could not imagine why they would be looking for him, or why he
should be afraid. He had been a legal permanent resident of the United States
for nearly 30 years. But within hours, he was in the custody of United States
Immigration and Customs Enforcement and in the midst of deportation proceedings.

Mr. Valerio's offense dated back more than 20 years to a conviction for
possessing a gun without the proper license. He had bought the gun to protect
the bodega he owned from burglars, his daughter said. He served three years'
probation in the mid-1980s and had never again been in trouble with the law,
said his lawyer, Marilyn Labrada Dume.

But the lone gun charge was enough to qualify him for deportation back to his
native Dominican Republic. Many criminal convictions, including all gun charges,
are deportable offenses regardless of when they occurred. Immigration officials
are always on the lookout to deport ''criminal aliens,'' and it appears that
last week, Mr. Valerio's name came up.

Officials declined to explain how they learned of Mr. Valerio after so many
years or why they detained him. In a statement, Khalid Walls, a spokesman for
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, would confirm only that Mr. Valerio was in
removal proceedings, and that he was released on a $2,500 bond on Thursday.

His next appointment before an immigration judge is scheduled for January, his
family said.

By coincidence, Mr. Valerio's troubles stemming from his old gun conviction
arose just as Ramon Murphy, the president of the Bodega Association of the
United States, and local Latino leaders, urged bodega owners to apply for
handgun licenses to protect themselves after a gunman killed a Queens bodega
clerk in a botched robbery last Saturday.

Soon after Mr. Valerio was released on Thursday, he stood on the steps of a
federal building in downtown Manhattan to tell his story to a group of
reporters. He was joined by Ydanis Rodriguez and Diana Reyna, members of the
City Council, and Assemblyman Adriano D. Espaillat.

Mr. Valerio, his eyes red and his face covered in white stubble, thanked the
elected officials and his family for support. He spoke briefly, and appeared to
be on the verge of tears. His daughter Elibany, who is eight months pregnant,
stood behind him. She works as a paralegal for Ms. Dume and enlisted her help to
keep her father from being sent to a detention center in Texas or Louisiana, as
often happens to those caught in the authorities' sweep.

The elected officials denounced immigration officials for detaining a man they
described as a model resident of New York who had long ago made up for his
crime. ''He's the perfect example of why immigration law is broken and has to be
fixed,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.

Mr. Valerio's case is far from unique, though a case stretching back to a
decades-old conviction is unusual, advocates and lawyers said. But they said
they feared that stories like Mr. Valerio's would become more common as the new
federal Secure Communities program is introduced across the country. That
program, which has not yet begun in New York, is intended to ensure that anyone
who is arrested and fingerprinted will undergo an immigration check, and that
the names and fingerprints will be compared against criminal databases and
immigration records.

Immigrations and Custom Enforcement, often referred to as ICE, says the program
will protect the public by clearing criminals off the streets and, if officials
deem the case serious enough, deported. The authorities estimate that one
million noncitizens are arrested each year, and that the new program will help
officials quickly and accurately sift through those names to find the most
dangerous people among them.

Mr. Rodriguez called the program an affront to American values, and he urged the
federal and state authorities to repeal it. He said that the United States
government should never try to expel people like Mr. Valerio.

''ICE is out of control,'' Mr. Rodriguez said.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eligio Valerio, center, with his daughters, Elibany, in front of
him, and Lisa, behind him, after his release from detention. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

How Immigrants Create More Jobs

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN.

Tyler Cowen is a professor of economics at George Mason University.

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW;
Pg. 6

LENGTH: 984 words


IN the campaign season now drawing to a close, immigration and globalization
have often been described as economic threats. The truth, however, is more
complex.

Over all, it turns out that the continuing arrival of immigrants to American
shores is encouraging business activity here, thereby producing more jobs,
according to a new study. Its authors argue that the easier it is to find cheap
immigrant labor at home, the less likely that production will relocate offshore.

The study, ''Immigration, Offshoring and American Jobs,'' was written by two
economics professors -- Gianmarco I. P. Ottaviano of Bocconi University in Italy
and Giovanni Peri of the University of California, Davis -- along with Greg C.
Wright, a Ph.D. candidate at Davis.

The study notes that when companies move production offshore, they pull away not
only low-wage jobs but also many related jobs, which can include high-skilled
managers, tech repairmen and others. But hiring immigrants even for low-wage
jobs helps keep many kinds of jobs in the United States, the authors say. In
fact, when immigration is rising as a share of employment in an economic sector,
offshoring tends to be falling, and vice versa, the study found.

In other words, immigrants may be competing more with offshored workers than
with other laborers in America.

American economic sectors with much exposure to immigration fared better in
employment growth than more insulated sectors, even for low-skilled labor, the
authors found. It's hard to prove cause and effect in these studies, or to
measure all relevant variables precisely, but at the very least, the evidence in
this study doesn't offer much support for the popular bias against immigration,
and globalization more generally.

We see the job-creating benefits of trade and immigration every day, even if we
don't always recognize them. As other papers by Professor Peri have shown,
low-skilled immigrants usually fill gaps in American labor markets and generally
enhance domestic business prospects rather than destroy jobs; this occurs
because of an important phenomenon, the presence of what are known as
''complementary'' workers, namely those who add value to the work of others. An
immigrant will often take a job as a construction worker, a drywall installer or
a taxi driver, for example, while a native-born worker may end up being promoted
to supervisor. And as immigrants succeed here, they help the United States
develop strong business and social networks with the rest of the world, making
it easier for us to do business with India, Brazil and most other countries,
again creating more jobs.

For all the talk of the dangers of offshoring, there is a related trend that we
might call in-shoring. Dell or Apple computers may be assembled overseas, for
example, but those products aid many American businesses at home and allow them
to expand here. A cheap call center in India can encourage a company to open up
more branches to sell its products in the United States.

Those are further examples of how some laborers can complement others; it's not
all about one group of people taking jobs from another. Job creation and
destruction are so intertwined that, over all, the authors find no statistically
verifiable connection between offshoring and net creation of American jobs.

We're all worried about unemployment, but the problem is usually rooted in
macroeconomic conditions, not in immigration or offshoring. (According to a Pew
study, the number of illegal immigrants from the Caribbean and Latin America
fell 22 percent from 2007 to 2009; their departure has not had much effect on
the weak United States job market.) Remember, too, that each immigrant consumes
products sold here, therefore also helping to create jobs.

When it comes to immigration, positive-sum thinking is too often absent in
public discourse these days. Debates on immigration and labor markets reflect
some common human cognitive failings -- namely, that we are quicker to vilify
groups of different ''others'' than we are to blame impersonal forces.

Consider the fears that foreign competition, offshoring and immigration have
destroyed large numbers of American jobs. In reality, more workers have probably
been displaced by machines -- as happens every time computer software eliminates
a task formerly performed by a clerical worker. Yet we know that machines and
computers do the economy far more good than harm and that they create more jobs
than they destroy.

Nonetheless, we find it hard to transfer this attitude to our dealings with
immigrants, no matter how logically similar ''cost-saving machines'' and
''cost-saving foreign labor'' may be in their economic effects. Similarly,
tariffs or other protectionist measures aimed at foreign nations have a certain
populist appeal, even though their economic effects may be roughly the same as
those caused by a natural disaster that closes shipping lanes or chokes off a
domestic harbor.

AS a nation, we spend far too much time and energy worrying about foreigners. We
also end up with more combative international relations with our economic
partners, like Mexico and China, than reason can justify. In turn, they are more
economically suspicious of us than they ought to be, which cements a negative
dynamic into place.

The current skepticism has deadlocked prospects for immigration reform, even
though no one is particularly happy with the status quo. Against that trend, we
should be looking to immigration as a creative force in our economic favor.
Allowing in more immigrants, skilled and unskilled, wouldn't just create jobs.
It could increase tax revenue, help finance Social Security, bring new home
buyers and improve the business environment.

The world economy will most likely grow more open, and we should be prepared to
compete. That means recognizing the benefits -- including the employment
benefits -- that immigrants bring to this country.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Drugs Seized In Tunnel Near Border

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 292 words


LOS ANGELES -- A drug-smuggling tunnel and approximately 30 tons of marijuana
were discovered early Wednesday in the Otay Mesa section of San Diego, said
officials from Immigration and Customs Enforcement and the United States Drug
Enforcement Administration.

The officials said the tunnel, which contained much of the drugs, was roughly
600 yards long and had been used to shuttle marijuana between California and
Tijuana, Mexico, for some time.

Steven Pitts, a supervising Border Patrol agent, said the tunnel was unusually
sophisticated; it had lighting and ventilation as well as a kind of railroad
track to move drugs. The tunnel was not large enough to stand in; officials said
the smugglers most likely crawled through it. Warehouses on each side were used
to store drugs, they said.

''Usually the ones we're seeing are coming into some kind of drainage system,
but this was built on their own,'' Mr. Pitts said.

Mexican officials said they found five tons of marijuana at the southern end of
the tunnel. The discovery comes weeks after Mexican authorities seized 134 tons
of marijuana in Tijuana, a record-breaking amount for the country. Officials
said it was unclear whether the tunnel discovered Wednesday was related.

In the last four years, authorities have found more than 75 such tunnels along
the border.

The discovery came after immigration officers found 10 tons of marijuana in a
tractor trailer at a freeway checkpoint Tuesday afternoon. The driver and a
passenger were arrested.

''Obviously, at this size, this wasn't a mom-and-pop operation,'' said John T.
Morton, the director of Immigration and Customs Enforcement. ''The sheer volume
of this is much greater than anything we've had. I can tell you the cartels
aren't happy to lose this.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrants' Pilot Lessons Spur Inquiry By the U.S.

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 578 words


BOSTON -- Federal officials could not explain Friday how more than 30 immigrants
charged with being here illegally got clearance to take flying lessons at an
airstrip outside Boston.

Federal law prohibits illegal immigrants from taking flight lessons under rules
revamped after the Sept. 11 terrorism attacks. But the 33 Brazilians, arrested
over the last few months and awaiting deportation hearings, somehow managed to
get instruction at TJ Aviation Flight Academy at Minute Man Air Field in Stow, a
rural town about 30 miles northwest of Boston.

Their instructor, also Brazilian, has also been charged with being here
illegally, according to a spokeswoman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The spokeswoman, Gillian M. Brigham, said none of the immigrants posed a
terrorism threat. But the incident, first reported by The Boston Globe, raised
questions about the procedures for monitoring foreigners training to fly in the
United States.

Since 2004, the Transportation Security Administration has been required to
check all foreign flight students against terrorism, criminal and immigration
databases. Students must also show their passports and visas to their flight
instructor, who is supposed to keep copies on file.

Greg Soule, a spokesman for the T.S.A., said in a statement that the agency was
reviewing ''the circumstances by which these individuals were issued pilots'
licenses.''

The statement said that the agency ''performs a thorough background check on
each applicant at the time of application to include terrorism and other watch
list matching, criminal history, and checking for available disqualifying
immigration information.''

Mr. Soule declined to provide details on the Stow case.

The owner of the flight school, Thiago DeJesus, told The Globe that the students
got approval from the T.S.A. before taking classes in single-engine planes for
$165 an hour.

Mr. DeJesus, 26, said he did not know they were in the country illegally. He
also denied being here illegally, saying that he came here from Brazil a decade
ago.

Mr. DeJesus was not at the air field Friday and did not respond to phone
messages. Neither he nor any of his students have been detained while they await
deportation hearings in federal immigration court, Ms. Brigham said, adding that
none have been criminally charged.

Jim Peters, a spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration confirmed that
Mr. DeJesus was licensed to fly single-engine planes and give flying lessons.
The F.A.A. was investigating Mr. DeJesus's flight school because of ''safety
issues,'' he said, although it has allowed the school to remain open.

''We can't say anything more about that,'' Mr. Peters said.

While the F.A.A. issues licenses to pilots who have received proper training, he
said, it does not have a role in checking whether flight students are here
legally.

William Joyce, an immigration lawyer representing some of Mr. DeJesus's
students, said at least one had been in the country for more than a decade and
had not anticipated trouble.

''I've been told they specifically asked about getting checked and they were
advised it would be no problem,'' he said. ''The next thing you know,
immigration officials were showing up at people's doors.''

Most of his clients had signed up for flying lessons simply because they had ''a
genuine interest in flying,'' he said.

''In the Brazilian culture,'' he said, ''apparently to be a pilot is akin to
being a doctor or a lawyer, a very prestigious thing.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

LETTERS; When Jobs Go Abroad

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 121 words


To the Editor:

Re ''How Immigrants Create More Jobs'' (Economic View, Oct. 31):

If shoes and televisions and batteries and apple juice were found only in
museums, I might be able to accept Tyler Cowen's assertion in the column that
''more workers have probably been displaced by machines'' than by any economic
conditions outside our borders.

Immigration's effect on the job market is not the issue here. But low-cost
foreign competition and offshoring have taken many jobs from our country. Recent
articles on China's dominance in the market for rare earth metals, for example,
show how low wages and lax environmental regulation virtually destroyed our own
production of these important metals.

James Fullmer

Dearborn, Mich., Oct. 31

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           November 13, 2010 Saturday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

Defying Trend, Canada Lures More Migrants

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1477 words


WINNIPEG, Manitoba -- As waves of immigrants from the developing world remade
Canada a decade ago, the famously friendly people of Manitoba could not contain
their pique.

What irked them was not the Babel of tongues, the billions spent on health care
and social services, or the explosion of ethnic identities. The rub was the
newcomers' preference for ''M.T.V.'' -- Montreal, Toronto or Vancouver -- over
the humble prairie province north of North Dakota, which coveted workers and
population growth.

Demanding ''our fair share,'' Manitobans did something hard to imagine in
American politics, where concern over illegal immigrants dominates public debate
and states seek more power to keep them out. In Canada, which has little illegal
immigration, Manitoba won new power to bring foreigners in, handpicking ethnic
and occupational groups judged most likely to stay.

This experiment in designer immigration has made Winnipeg a hub of parka-clad
diversity -- a blue-collar town that gripes about the cold in Punjabi and
Tagalog -- and has defied the anti-immigrant backlash seen in much of the world.

Rancorous debates over immigration have erupted from Australia to Sweden, but
there is no such thing in Canada as an anti-immigrant politician. Few nations
take more immigrants per capita, and perhaps none with less fuss.

Is it the selectivity Canada shows? The services it provides? Even the Mad Cowz,
a violent youth gang of African refugees, did nothing to curb local appetites
for foreign workers.

''When I took this portfolio, I expected some of the backlash that's occurred in
other parts of the world,'' said Jennifer Howard, Manitoba's minister of
immigration. ''But I have yet to have people come up to me and say, 'I want
fewer immigrants.' I hear, 'How can we bring in more?' ''

This steak-and-potatoes town now offers stocks of palm oil and pounded yams,
four Filipino newspapers, a large Hindu Diwali festival, and a mandatory course
on Canadian life from the grand to the granular. About 600 newcomers a month
learn that the Canadian charter ensures ''the right to life, liberty and
security'' and that employers like cover letters in Times New Roman font. (A
gentle note to Filipinos: resumes with photographs, popular in Manila, are
frowned on in Manitoba.)

''From the moment we touched down at the airport, it was love all the way,''
said Olusegun Daodu, 34, a procurement professional who recently arrived from
Nigeria to join relatives and marveled at the medical card that offers free
care. ''If we have any reason to go to the hospital now, we just walk in.''

''The license plates say 'Friendly Manitoba,' '' said his wife, Hannah.

''It's true -- really, really true,'' Mr. Daodu said. ''I had to ask my aunt,
'Do they ever get angry here?' ''

Canada has long sought immigrants to populate the world's second largest land
mass, but two developments in the 1960s shaped the modern age. One created a
point system that favors the highly skilled. The other abolished provisions that
screened out nonwhites. Millions of minorities followed, with Chinese, Indians
and Filipinos in the lead.

Relative to its population, Canada takes more than twice as many legal
immigrants as the United States. Why no hullabaloo?

With one-ninth of the United States' population, Canada is keener for growth,
and the point system helps persuade the public it is getting the newcomers it
needs. The children of immigrants typically do well. The economic downturn has
been mild. Plus the absence of large-scale illegal immigration removes a
dominant source of the conflict in the United States.

''The big difference between Canada and the U.S is that we don't border
Mexico,'' said Naomi Alboim, a former immigration official who teaches at Queens
University in Ontario.

French and English from the start, Canada also has a more accommodating
political culture -- one that accepts more pluribus and demands less unum. That
American complaint -- ''Why do I have to press 1 for English?'' -- baffles a
country with a minister of multiculturalism.

Another force is in play: immigrant voting strength. About 20 percent of
Canadians are foreign born (compared with 12.5 percent in the United States),
and they are quicker to acquire citizenship and voting rights. ''It's political
suicide to be against immigration,'' said Leslie Seidle of the Institute for
Research on Public Policy, a Montreal group.

Some stirrings of discontent can be found. The rapid growth of the ''M.T.V.''
cities has fueled complaints about congestion and housing costs. A foiled 2006
terrorist plot brought modest concern about radical Islam. And critics of the
refugee system say it rewards false claims of persecution, leaving the country
with an unlocked back door.

''There's considerably more concern among our people than is reflected in our
policies,'' said Martin Collacott, who helped create the Center for Immigration
Policy Reform, a new group that advocates less immigration.

Mr. Collacott argues high levels of immigration have run up the cost of the
safety net, slowed economic growth and strained civic cohesion, but he agrees
the issue has little force in politics. ''There's literally no one in Parliament
willing to take up the cudgel,'' he said.

The Manitoba program, started in 1998 at employers' behest, has grown rapidly
under both liberal and conservative governments. While the federal system favors
those with college degrees, Manitoba takes the semi-skilled, like truck drivers,
and focuses on people with local relatives in the hopes that they will stay. The
newcomers can bring spouses and children and get a path to citizenship.

Most are required to bring savings, typically about $10,000, to finance the
transition without government aid. While the province nominates people, the
federal government does background checks and has the final say. Unlike many
migrant streams, the new Manitobans have backgrounds that are strikingly middle
class.

''Back home was good -- not bad,'' said Nishkam Virdi, 32, who makes $17 an hour
at the Palliser furniture plant after moving from India, where his family owned
a machine shop.

He said he was drawn less by wages than by the lure of health care and solid
utilities. ''The living standard is higher -- the lighting, the water, the
energy,'' he said.

The program has attracted about 50,000 people over the last decade, and surveys
show a majority stayed. Ms. Howard, the immigration minister, credits job
placement and language programs, but many migrants cite the informal welcomes.

''Because we are from the third world, I thought they might think they are
superior,'' said Anne Simpao, a Filipino nurse in tiny St. Claude, who was
approached by a stranger and offered dishes and a television set. ''They call it
friendly Manitoba, and it's really true.''

One complaint throughout Canada is the difficulty many immigrants have in
transferring professional credentials. Heredina Maranan, 45, a certified public
accountant in Manila, has been stuck in a Manitoba factory job for a decade. She
did not disguise her disappointment when relatives sought to follow her. ''I did
not encourage them,'' she said. ''I think I deserved better.''

They came anyway -- two families totaling 14 people, drawn not just by jobs but
the promise of good schools.

''Of course I wanted to come here,'' said her nephew, Lordie Osena. ''In the
Philippines there are 60 children in one room.''

Every province except Quebec now runs a provincial program, each with different
criteria, diluting the force of the federal point system. The Manitoba program
has grown so rapidly, federal officials have imposed a numerical cap.

Arthur Mauro, a Winnipeg business leader, hails the Manitoba program but sees
limited lessons for a country as demographically different as the United States.
''There are very few states in the U.S. that say, 'We need people,' '' he said.

But Arthur DeFehr, chief executive officer of Palliser furniture, does see a
lesson: choose migrants who fill local needs and give them a legal path.

With 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States, he sees another
opportunity for Manitoba. ''I'm sure many of those people would make perfectly
wonderful citizens of Canada,'' he said. ''I think we should go and get them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 18, 2010



CORRECTION: An article on Saturday about Canada's immigration policy referred
incompletely to the policy in the province of Quebec. While Quebec, like all the
other provinces, selects its own immigrants subject to federal approval on
health, security and criminality questions, its program operates under a
different power-sharing agreement with Canada's federal government. Quebec's
policy gives preference to people who speak French. Also, its agreement with the
federal government can be amended only by mutual consent while the other
provincial agreements are subject to federal approval.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Immigrant workers at the Palliser furniture factory in Winnipeg,
Manitoba. The province tries to attract semi-skilled workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
JOHN WOODS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A9)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            November 15, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Assessing America's Place in the Global Network

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 292 words


To the Editor:

In ''The Crossroads Nation'' (column, Nov. 9), David Brooks concludes that to be
the ''crossroads nation,'' America needs to finance research, improve
infrastructure, fix immigration, reform taxes, encourage study abroad by college
students and take advantage of veterans.

By my count, at least three (and possibly more) of these goals require a
significant government role. Given a Republican Party with a strong Tea Party
faction explicitly pledging to cut ''nonessential'' spending and remove
government from our lives, it would be helpful to know how he envisions these
things coming about.

Brian Williams Lewisburg, Pa., Nov. 9, 2010

To the Editor:

If we don't reform our immigration laws to make it easier for skilled immigrants
to stay here after graduating from one of our universities or move here after
obtaining much needed skills in their home countries, we don't stand a chance of
becoming the essential destination in the 21st century.

We may be ''well situated to be the crossroads nation,'' but unless foreign-born
travelers can get on the road to the United States with a legal right to stay
and work here, there will be no roads to cross.

Kenneth Gilman New York, Nov. 10, 2010

To the Editor:

Last week one of my undergraduate finance students asked me how I can be
optimistic about the future of our country, given the negativism and acrimony of
the recent election and all that has happened to our economy these past three
years. I hesitated; yes, I'm optimistic, but I couldn't put my finger on why.

Thank you, David Brooks, for cutting through the fog and making such a clear,
rational argument for what was only a vague instinct.

Robert Elliott Chicago, Nov. 10, 2010

The writer is a professor of finance at DePaul University.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          November 17, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigration Overload

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 104 words


To the Editor:

''Immigration Hardball'' (editorial, Nov. 15) argues for a way for ''illegal
immigrants to get right with the law.''

Can we not question the wisdom of promoting amnesty and continued mass
immigration in the face of millions of unemployed and underemployed Americans?

Can we not cheer at the possibility of a sustainable energy future if we curtail
continued population growth from immigration?

Or are we condemned to actively promote the overpopulation of the United States
by countries that are unwilling to curtail their growth and that refuse to
provide for their own?

Tim Aaronson El Cerrito, Calif., Nov. 15, 2010

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                  (The Caucus)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

Controversial Radio Host Is Member's Chief of Staff

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 432 words



HIGHLIGHT: Joyce Kaufman, an outspoken conservative talk show host from south
Florida, will be serving as chief of staff to Tea Party favorite Allen West.


Rarely do congressional aides make news.

But then, rarely do congressional aides call the House speaker "garbage" even
before they arrive in Washington.

Joyce Kaufman, an outspoken conservative talk show host from south Florida, will
be serving as chief of staff to Tea Party favorite Allen West, a Republican and
former Army colonel who won a seat in Florida's 22nd district in Boca Raton.

On her show this week, she demonstrated the blunt, acerbic style that has
captivated her audience, explain that she decided to work for West because "I
looked at this family and [told] myself, how do you not fight and put them up on
the pedestal when we've got this garbage up on the pedestal now, people like
Nancy Pelosi?"

That kind of rhetoric is common for Ms. Kaufman, whose show features a steady
stream of angry conservatism, especially when it comes to the issue of illegal
immigration.

At a recent rally, Ms. Kaufman described her own style as "aggressive" as she
ranted about the "risk of losing our culture" from immigrants who come to
America illegally.

In particular, she complained about the "politically correct" people who "Want
me to embrace everybody and consider every culture equal. I don't feel that way.
If I wanted to live in a third-world country, I could move to one."

Later in the rally, referring to illegal immigrants who speak Spanish, not
English, she said, "they reproduce at a rate about three times what American
citizens do. And that's not bigotry and that's just fact."

Mr. West's Decision to bring Ms. Kaufman to Capitol Hill is not typical. But her
intensity fits with the campaign he ran to snare his seat in Congress. Mr. West
embraced the Tea Party movement and was endorsed by Sarah Palin, the former
governor of Alaska.

Despite her new job, Ms. Kaufman appears to be holding on to her job at WFTL-AM,
the radio station that has been home to her show. The station praised her move
on its website this week, but said she will remain as the "Washington
correspondent."

"WFTL is proud of their midday drive talk host as she goes into the belly of the
beast to report to us live from DC!" the statement said. "While Joyce has
accepted a position on the staff of Congressman-Elect Allen West, CD 22', she
has been retained as our Washington correspondent, with details on her new
exciting schedule to be announced soon...keep listening for details!"

     ·    Aide's Comments Cause Stir as White House Discusses Tax Strategy
     ·    Lott and Daschle Offer Advice on Getting Along
     ·    Boehner Faces a Series of Challenges as Speaker
     ·    Obama Recasts Asia Trip as Jobs Mission
     ·    Sarah Palin's Post-Election Video


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              139 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                                   (Economix)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

What We're Reading: Bernanke, Unsung Hero

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 118 words



HIGHLIGHT: Links from around the Web.


 Ben S. Bernanke, unsung hero: No credit for a man whose predecessor got no
blame. Taiwan's standard of living surpassed Japan's this year. An animated rap
video take on the Chinese-American currency battle. (Warning: Some PG-13
language is involved.) The United States government is trying to deport the
wrong people: An increasing share of cases in which Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) has sought to remove individuals from the United States are
being rejected by the immigration courts. Tim Harford's list of economists on
Twitter. The pharmaceutical lobby spent a lot of money trying to get Democrats
re-elected this year. Nearly 70 percent of taxpayers filed their taxes
electronically in 2010.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              140 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                            The New York Times Blogs
                             (The Learning Network)

                            November 12, 2010 Friday

Test Yourself | History, Nov. 12, 2010

BYLINE: THE LEARNING NETWORK

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 84 words



HIGHLIGHT: On November 12, 1954, Ellis Island closed after processing more than
_____ immigrants since opening in New York Harbor in 1892.


Test your knowledge of history with today's question about immigration to the
United States.

After you've clicked "submit answer," more information will appear.

Use our questions for test prep or just for fun. Find more here: English
language question archive Math question archive History question archive General
archive

     ·    Test Yourself | History, Nov. 5, 2010
     ·    Test Yourself | History, Oct. 29, 2010
     ·    Test Yourself | History, Oct. 22, 2010
     ·    Test Yourself | History, Oct. 15, 2010
     ·    Test Yourself | History, Oct. 8, 2010


LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog


                   Copyright 2010 The News York Times Company
                              All Rights Reserved


                              141 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Gap

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE; Megan Thee-Brenan contributed reporting from New York.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1311 words


MIAMI -- Meaghan Patrick, a junior at New College of Florida, a tiny liberal
arts college in Sarasota, says discussing immigration with her older relatives
is like ''hitting your head against a brick wall.''

Cathleen McCarthy, a senior at the University of Arizona, says immigration is
the rare, radioactive topic that sparks arguments with her liberal mother and
her grandmother.

''Many older Americans feel threatened by the change that immigration
presents,'' Ms. McCarthy said. ''Young people today have simply been exposed to
a more accepting worldview.''

Forget sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll; immigration is a new generational fault
line.

In the wake of the new Arizona law allowing the police to detain people they
suspect of entering the country illegally, young people are largely displaying
vehement opposition -- leading protests on Monday at Senator John McCain's
offices in Tucson, and at the game here between the Florida Marlins and the
Arizona Diamondbacks.

Meanwhile, baby boomers, despite a youth of ''live and let live,'' are siding
with older Americans and supporting the Arizona law.

This emerging divide has appeared in a handful of surveys taken since the
measure was signed into law, including a New York Times/CBS News poll this month
that found that Americans 45 and older were more likely than the young to say
the Arizona law was ''about right'' (as opposed to ''going too far'' or ''not
far enough''). Boomers were also more likely to say that ''no newcomers'' should
be allowed to enter the country while more young people favored a ''welcome
all'' approach.

The generational conflict could complicate chances of a federal immigration
overhaul any time soon. ''The hardening of this divide spells further
stalemate,'' said Roberto Suro, the former head of the nonpartisan Pew Hispanic
Center.

And the causes are partly linked to experience. Demographically, younger and
older Americans grew up in vastly different worlds. Those born after the civil
rights era lived in a country of high rates of legal and illegal immigration. In
their neighborhoods and schools, the presence of immigrants was as hard to miss
as a Starbucks today.

In contrast, baby boomers and older Americans -- even those who fought for
integration -- came of age in one of the most homogenous moments in the
country's history.

Immigration, which census figures show declined sharply from the Depression
through the 1960s, reached a historic low point the year after Woodstock. From
1860 through 1920, 13 percent to 15 percent of the country was foreign born -- a
rate similar to today's, when immigrants make up about 12.5 percent of the
country.

But in 1970, only 4.7 percent of the country was foreign born, and most of those
immigrants were older Europeans, often unnoticed by the boomer generation born
from 1946 to 1964.

Boomers and their parents also spent their formative years away from the cities,
where newer immigrants tended to gather -- unlike today's young people who have
become more involved with immigrants, through college, or by moving to urban
areas.

''It's hard for them to share each others' views on what's going on,'' said
William H. Frey, a demographer with the Brookings Institution. ''These older
people grew up in largely white suburbs or largely segregated neighborhoods.
Young people have grown up in an interracial culture.''

The generation gap is especially pronounced in formerly fast-growing states like
Arizona and Florida, where retirees and new immigrants have flocked -- one group
for sun, the other for work.

In a new report based on census figures titled ''The State of Metropolitan
America,'' Mr. Frey found that Arizona has the largest ''cultural generation
gap,'' as he calls it, between older Americans who are largely white (83 percent
in Arizona's case) and children under 18 who are increasingly members of
minorities (57 percent in Arizona's case).

Florida ranks sixth on Mr. Frey's cultural generation gap list, with a 29
percentage point difference between the percentage of white people among its
older residents and the percentage that whites make up of its children.

That very different makeup of the young and the old can lead t0 tensions.
Demographers say it has the potential to produce public policy that alienates
the young because older people are more likely to vote and less likely to be
connected to the perspectives of youth -- especially the perspectives of young
people of different races and national origins.

''Short term, politically, the age divide heightens polarization,'' Mr. Suro
said ''Long term,'' he added, ''there's the challenge of whether older citizens
will pay for the education of the children of immigrants.''

Some older Americans acknowledge that how they grew up has shaped their
opinions. Mike Lombardi, 56, of Litchfield, Ariz. -- one of 1,079 respondents in
the Times/CBS poll conducted from April 28 to May 2 -- said his support for his
state's new law stemmed partly from the shock of seeing gaggles of immigrants
outside Home Depot, who he assumed were illegal. Comparing the situation to his
youth in Torrance, Calif., in a follow-up interview, he said, ''You didn't see
anything like what you see now.''

Maggie Aspillaga, 62, a Cuban immigrant in Miami, had more specific concerns: a
risk of crime from illegal immigrants and the costs in health care and other
services. ''They're taking resources,'' she said.

Some young people agree, of course, just as many baby boomers support more open
immigration policies. In the poll, a majority of Americans in all age groups
described illegal immigration as a ''very serious'' problem.

Still, divisions were pronounced by age: for instance, while 41 percent of
Americans ages 45 to 64 and 36 percent of older Americans said immigration
levels should be decreased, only 24 percent of those younger than 45 said so.

Ms. Patrick, 22, said the gap reflected what each group saw as normal. In her
view, current immigration levels -- legal and illegal -- represent ''the natural
course of history.''

As children, after all, her generation watched ''Sesame Street'' with Hispanic
characters, many of them sat in classrooms that were a virtual United Nations,
and now they marry across ethnic lines in record numbers. Their children are
even adopting mixed monikers like ''Mexipino,'' (Mexican and Filipino) and
''Blaxican'' (black and Mexican).

That ''multiculti'' (short for multicultural) United States is not without
challenges. Aparna Malladi, 31, a graduate student at Florida International
University originally from India, said that when she first entered laboratories
in Miami, it took a while for her to learn the customs.

''I didn't know that when I enter a room, I have to greet everyone and say
goodbye when I leave,'' Ms. Malladi said. ''People thought I was being rude.''

Still, in interviews across the nation, young people emphasized the benefits of
immigrants. Andrea Bonvecchio, 17, the daughter of a naturalized citizen from
Venezuela, said going to a high school that is ''like 98 percent Hispanic''
meant she could find friends who enjoyed both Latin music and her favorite
movie, ''The Parent Trap.''

Nicole Vespia, 18, of Selden, N.Y., said older people who were worried about
immigrants stealing jobs were giving up on an American ideal: capitalist
meritocracy.

''If someone works better than I do, they deserve to get the job,'' Ms. Vespia
said. ''I work in a stockroom, and my best workers are people who don't really
speak English. It's cool to get to know them.''

Her parents' generation, she added, just needs to adapt.

''My stepdad says, 'Why do I have to press 1 for English?' I think that's
ridiculous,'' Ms. Vespia said, referring to the common instruction on
customer-service lines. ''It's not that big of a deal. Quit crying about it.
Press the button.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ANDREA BONVECCHIO: 17-year-old U.S.-born daughter of a
naturalized citizen
 ADELA JOVER: 53, Cuban immigrant and administrator at Florida International
University (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA A. WOOLF FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART:
Generational Divide: Top metro areas with the largest gap between the percentage
of children who are white and of residents over 65 who are white (Source:
William H. Frey, ''The State of Metropolitan America,'' The Brookings
Institution)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

After Governor's Pardon, an Immigrant Is Sworn In as a Citizen

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 432 words


It was his application for United States citizenship that derailed the American
life of Qing Hong Wu, an information-technology executive who had risen from
poverty and street crime in Chinatown. He had fulfilled the promise he made to
the judge who sentenced him for teenage muggings, but immigration authorities
jailed him for mandatory deportation to China, a country he had left at age 5.

It took a governor's pardon to free him. And on Friday, with his mother at his
side and the judge cheering him on, Mr. Wu, 29, was sworn in as a citizen with
the approval of the same immigration authorities who had tried to expel him from
the country.

''I can now officially say I'm an American,'' said Mr. Wu, who immigrated
legally to the United States as a child, in a prepared statement he read at a
news conference outside a federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan. ''I can finally
have peace that I am safe and won't be forced to leave my home and my family.''

He thanked immigration officials who decided to swiftly reconsider his rejected
citizenship application after a pardon by Gov. David A. Paterson cleared the
way. And Mr. Wu  pledged to ''keep doing the right thing'' and to ''give back to
my community in any way I can.''

The case of Mr. Wu had drawn support from many, including the judge who
sentenced him to a reformatory in 1996 for a series of muggings committed at age
15, and who promised to stand by him if he redeemed himself. The judge, Michael
A. Corriero, since retired, wrote to Mr. Paterson appealing for the pardon.

Inspired in part by Mr. Wu's case, the governor created a Special Immigrant
Board of Pardons on May 5 to review cases of legal immigrants threatened with
deportation for old or minor crimes.

The governor's office has said that hundreds of pardons are expected before the
end of the year, but advocates considering petitions in several cases have yet
to file them. Such petitions are difficult to draft, and Elizabeth R. OuYang,
the president of OCA-NY, an Asian-American civil rights organization that
championed Mr. Wu, said his naturalization was an important step in encouraging
advocacy groups and law firms to try to help.

As Judge Corriero walked to the federal courthouse where Mr. Wu took the oath of
citizenship, he paused to draw a larger lesson from the celebration. ''It's
truly a magnificent affirmation of American values and justice,'' Judge Corriero
said. ''It's taken a little while for us to get here. But today demonstrates
what can be done when so many people see the way to justice, in a situation that
was crying out for it.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Qing Hong Wu, right, with former Judge Michael A. Corriero,
after Mr. Wu took the oath to become an American citizen. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL
APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 2, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Immigrant Sets Sights On the Mayor's Office, Back Home in Mexico

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1250 words


It was the picture of a classic New York campaign: The candidate dashed around
the city where he had pulled himself up from poverty to business success and now
a run for elected office. He met constituents, gave interviews and, at a private
celebration in a Midtown Manhattan restaurant, thanked supporters.

But the recent flurry of campaigning was no ordinary political tour. The
candidate, Juan Navarro, is a Mexican immigrant with homes in Queens and New
Jersey, and his electoral goal is an office 2,200 miles away: the mayoralty of
the small city of Serdan, Mexico.

Mr. Navarro, a legal resident of the United States, has made his expatriate
identity a major theme in  his platform, saying that his experiences as an
up-by-his-bootstraps immigrant have taught him hard lessons that would make him
a sensitive civic leader in Serdan, his hometown.

''You learn a lot about how to survive,'' said Mr. Navarro, 33, who has lived in
New York for 18 years but in recent months has spent nearly all of his time
campaigning in Mexico, where he plans to live if he wins. ''That's important in
a country like Mexico, because we don't have as many opportunities.''

Mr. Navarro's cross-border candidacy reflects the intimate relationship between
New York's maturing Mexican diaspora and Mexico -- a steady, two-way flow of
people, resources, cultural practices and ideas.

But it also attests to the obstacles that Mexicans face in New York, even as
they have recently become the city's fastest-growing immigrant group. Although
they are now its fourth-largest immigrant population -- after Dominicans,
Chinese and Jamaicans -- they are still largely absent from politics. Leaders in
their communities say they know of no Mexican immigrant who has held elected
public office in the city.

Mexicans in New York, they say, lack political organization and experience, as
well as a critical mass of candidates or voters, since so many are not American
citizens. Even with the considerable inconveniences of an international
campaign, the Mexican-American candidate tends to look homeward.

''It's easier to run in Mexico, even if we've been so many years out of our
towns and cities,'' said Joel Magallan, executive director of Asociacion
Tepeyac, an advocacy and education organization for Mexican immigrants.

It is not uncommon for Mexicans living in the United States to run for public
office in Mexico, but most have made their bids from the American Southwest,
where the majority of Mexican immigrants have settled. Only a few candidates
have run from New York, community leaders say, and none have won office.

Mr. Navarro, with the backing of some Mexican-American business leaders and some
regional power brokers in the Mexican state of Puebla, where Serdan is situated,
appears to have greater momentum than any of his predecessors as he heads toward
the July 4 election.

His expatriate experience has worked both for and against him. He says it has
given him a finer appreciation of the deprivations that compelled him and so
many others to leave Mexico, and allowed him and his brothers the opportunity to
make the money that he now wants to invest in Serdan. But he has also been
attacked as a carpetbagger.

Among many in New York's Mexican leadership, his candidacy is a source of pride.
''He has gone to help the people,'' said Erasmo Ponce, an immigrant from Puebla
and owner of one of the largest tortilla-making companies in the New York
region. ''It was a good and sensible decision. The friends of Juan are united
behind him.''

Mr. Navarro's successes so far have mirrored the meteoric growth of the Mexican
population in New York. In 1980, there were about 6,700 Mexicans in the city.
They now total more than 170,000, with more than double that number in the
region, according to the Census Bureau, though the Mexican Consulate in New York
estimates there are about 1.2 million in the region. Most Mexicans in New York
have come from the Mixteca region south of Mexico City, particularly Puebla.

Several Mexican immigrants who have become American citizens have run for
elected office in the New York region in recent years, including Roberto Lopez,
who was a city councilman in New Rochelle, N.Y., from 2003 to 2007.

Mr. Navarro said that although he might someday consider a run for office in the
United States, he was a long way from having enough money or familiarity with
the American political system. To run in Maspeth, Queens, where he rents an
apartment, or in Passaic, N.J., where he owns a house, he would have to become
an American citizen. For now, he said, he is more interested in helping his
countrymen.

Mr. Navarro's celebrated return to Mexico was in sharp contrast to his
departure. Born into a poor family of street peddlers, he grew up selling candy
for pennies. In 1992, at age 14, he slipped across the United States border with
the help of smugglers; they brought him to New York, where he joined three older
brothers who had arrived earlier and worked in a garment district sweatshop.

Mr. Navarro and his brothers eventually became legal residents and started their
own businesses, forming a band that played for Mexican audiences along the
Eastern Seaboard. They founded a small record company, opened restaurants --
most recently El Tequilazo in Midtown -- and promoted Mexican events in New
York.

They gained some notoriety in 1999 when a bull escaped from a rodeo they had
organized in Queens. The police gave chase, shooting the animal dead in a
parking lot. The brothers were issued police summonses for failing to get
permits for wild animals.

Although Mr. Navarro, who is single, has many relatives in Serdan, he was
largely unknown there last August, when he heralded his arrival by sponsoring a
party for the city's residents. ''Nobody knew who he was before that,'' said
Valentin Rosas Hernandez, a correspondent in Serdan for El Sol de Puebla, a
daily newspaper.

As Mr. Navarro courted political and business leaders there, he also marshaled
support from Mexican leaders in New York. Last month, the state leaders of the
Institutional Revolutionary Party, one of Mexico's main political parties,
selected him as their candidate.

Alejandro Armenta Mier, president of the party's state committee, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico that the endorsement resulted from a poll of
party leaders in the city. But Mr. Navarro's campaign aides said he was
handpicked in backroom negotiations by a small cadre of state power brokers -- a
tradition in Mexican politics known as el dedazo, or the big finger.

Mr. Armenta said Mr. Navarro understood the struggles of ordinary families.
''Juan Navarro is the representation of the effort of thousands of Puebla
families who have had to leave and go to the United States to seek their
livelihood,'' he said.

Mr. Navarro's two opponents, however, have tried to cast him as an uninformed
interloper.

''He hasn't been here, and people don't identify with him,'' said one rival,
Jesus Hernandez Sanchez, a former city councilman. ''We know the needs of the
people.''

Mr. Navarro, who is back in Serdan this week, traveling from dawn to dusk
throughout the city's 24 townships, said he did not leave 18 years ago because
he wanted to, but because he had to.

''I went out to earn,'' he said, ''and I've returned to share what I gained.''

Now Arriving: This is the first in a series of articles  examining the lives and
impact  of New York City's fast-growing  Mexican population.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Juan Navarro, center, with supporters at El Tequilazo, a
restaurant that he and his brothers own in Manhattan. He has been in this
country 18 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUAN ARREDONDO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mr. Navarro, campaigning in Serdan, in the Mexican state of Puebla. His time in
the United States, he said, has given him a clearer idea of the deprivation at
home. (A18)
Juan Navarro is spending more time in his hometown as he campaigns. He has made
his up-by-his-bootstraps experience a theme in his speeches.
 Carlos Sanchez, 4, with his grandmother, Cecilia Estrada, in May at a Navarro
rally in Serdan, in the Mixteca region, which is home to most of the Mexicans in
New York. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JANET JARMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

In California, Immigration Debate Defines the G.O.P. Race for Governor

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1261 words


IRVINE, Calif. -- Meg Whitman was almost at the end of a 30-minute town
hall-style meeting here, responding to questions about taxes and spending,
schools and unemployment. But one topic had not come up, so Ms. Whitman, a
Republican candidate for governor, raised it herself, serving up a stern attack
against illegal immigration and a promise that she would protect California's
borders.

''I am 100 percent against amnesty,'' Ms. Whitman proclaimed. ''My Republican
opponent says I'm for amnesty. That is absolutely not true.''

For almost a year, Ms. Whitman, the former chief executive of eBay, has
campaigned on three issues: jobs, education and government spending. But as her
contest for the Republican nomination for governor  against Steve Poizner, the
state insurance commissioner, enters its final days, she has found herself drawn
into a loud and caustic argument over immigration policy.  ''It is the only
issue,'' said Stuart Stevens, Mr. Poizner's chief campaign consultant.

The primary here on Tuesday will be the highest-stakes electoral contest since
Arizona approved a tough immigration law, and that has allowed Mr. Poizner to
reshape the campaign, focusing  a series of stark  attacks on Ms. Whitman. The
extent to which immigration has, in the view of many Republicans, hijacked this
contest has stirred worry that the nominee chosen next week will be weakened in
the general election against Jerry Brown, a Democrat and former governor.

''There's a difference between talking about a problem and trying to exploit the
problem as a wedge issue to try to get scared white voters,'' said Allan
Hoffenblum, a Republican analyst here. ''I'm not speaking as a lone wolf on this
in the Republican Party. It's concerning a lot of us.''

Hispanics are becoming increasingly influential in California politics. One in
six voters this November is expected to be Hispanic -- a proportion that is
likely to grow in coming years -- and Southern California has been at the
forefront of efforts to boycott Arizona for enacting tough anti-immigrant
legislation in late April.

In many ways, California's primary race offers a worrisome preview of what many
Republicans say are the political perils for the party nationally in being
identified with tough immigration policies. Mr. Poizner has enthusiastically
endorsed such policies in his campaign. His series of stark television
advertisements portraying Ms. Whitman as an advocate of permissive immigration
began three weeks ago.

The emphasis on immigration is striking in a state that is reeling from the
economic downturn and saddled with what officials in both parties view as a
dysfunctional government. At 12.5 percent, the unemployment rate here is far
above the national average. The state has been hit hard by the foreclosure
crisis, its public education system is a shambles, and disapproval of the
Legislature and of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, a Republican barred by term
limits from seeking re-election, are at near-record highs. The election is
playing out against the backdrop of the latest battle in Sacramento over
proposed cuts in spending to balance the budget.

One strain on the state's finances is providing social services to a large
population of illegal immigrants, which is one reason the issue has political
resonance. Still, it is hardly clear that the tough-on-immigrants stance has
universal appeal among Republican voters; in the Central Valley, for instance,
many farmers use undocumented farm workers.

A Los Angeles Times/U.S.C. poll published on Sunday showed Ms. Whitman leading
Mr. Poizner by 53 percent to 29 percent; other polls taken last month, after Mr.
Poizner began his advertising assault against Ms. Whitman, showed that he had
significantly tightened the race, until she started pushing back.

In an interview, Ms. Whitman -- who has been running advertisements promising to
be ''tough as nails'' on illegal immigration -- said that she thought voters
were concerned about other things besides immigration, and that she was  raising
the issue only in response to what she asserted were Mr. Poizner's distortions
of her record. She said Mr. Poizner had hurt himself as a general election
candidate because of the tenor of his attacks.

''I think he's damaged in the general because he's only talked about one
issue,'' Ms. Whitman said. ''And I think that's a big mistake.''

Mr. Poizner said that illegal immigration was ''part and parcel of our message
from the get-go'' and that he always viewed it as the No. 1 issue for Republican
primary voters, and a point of contrast with Ms. Whitman.

''It's huge: everywhere I go, people burst out into applause when I start
talking about it,'' Mr. Poizner said after appearing at a town hall-style
meeting in El Segundo flanked by  bright red screens with white lettering
proclaiming, ''No Amnesty: Stop Illegal Immigration.''

''Our positions are just different,'' he continued. ''Meg Whitman  opposes
Arizona. I fully support it. In fact, I don't see how you can be a Republican
running for high office in the United States and be taken seriously if you
oppose what's going on in Arizona.''

Both candidates are independently wealthy and together have spent more than
$100 million -- about $80 million for Ms. Whitman, and $25 million for Mr.
Poizner -- which has guaranteed a wide audience for the back-and-forth volley of
television advertisements, radio spots and mailers. The demonstrated willingness
of Ms. Whitman and Mr. Poizner to tap their own political fortunes to win the
governorship is one of the key reasons Republicans are hopeful about defeating
Mr. Brown.

Even without immigration, candidates this primary season face a politically
daunting task in trying to navigate an increasingly conservative Republican base
and emerge as a  viable candidate in the general election. Mark Baldassare,
president and chief executive of the Public Policy Institute of California, a
policy study and polling group, said that 75 percent of Republicans statewide
disapproved of President Obama in a poll earlier last month, compared with 39
percent of all registered voters in California.

''The Republican primary voters are not representative of the overall mood of
Californians,'' Mr. Baldassare said. ''This is really a unique slice of the
electorate.''

One sign of this is the extent to which both Ms. Whitman and Mr. Poizner are
critical of Mr. Schwarzenegger. Mr. Poizner said he would not want the governor
to campaign with him should he win the nomination. ''I think it would be better
if he just stays out of the primary and the general election,'' he said.

Ron Nehring, the chairman of the state Republican Party, said the severity of
the economic problems facing California would overshadow the immigration stances
taken by the Republican candidate during the primaries. ''The Democrats are
always trying to paint Republicans as anti-immigrant,'' he said. ''But the
first, second, third and fourth issue in the race for governor is jobs and the
economy.''

Ms. Whitman's advisers said that if she won the nomination, she would move away
from immigration to broaden her appeal. But Mr. Poizner said he would not change
his campaign a bit.

''This is important for everyone to know: What you see is what you get,'' he
said. ''The campaign I'm waging now in the primary is exactly the same campaign
I'll be waging in the general against Jerry Brown. I think it's a myth that
independents, Democrats, these groups that supposedly would object to my strong
positions on illegal immigration -- uh-uh.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Steve Poizner says that he supports Arizona's immigration law
and that Meg Whitman does not. She says he distorts her record. (POOL PHOTOGRAPH
BY JIM GENSHEIMER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 5, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

An Immigrant Is Convicted Of Iran Trade

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WEISER

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 697 words


An Iranian immigrant who said he came to the United States ''to live the
American dream'' was convicted on Friday of violating the Iran trade embargo by
using an informal money-transfer system known as hawala to move millions of
dollars between the United States and Iran.

Hawala, which operates outside normal banking channels, is used widely, often by
expatriates and migrant workers from around the world to send legally earned
money back to their families.

Prosecutors charged that the defendant, Mahmoud Reza Banki, 33, obtained $3.4
million from family members in Iran and used his bank account in New York to
help dozens of other people and firms around the world move an equivalent amount
of money to Iran.

Mr. Banki ''played a critical role in the operation of this hawala system,'' a
federal prosecutor, E. Danya Perry, told the jury in her closing argument on
Wednesday.

She said Mr. Banki helped facilitate transfers through the bank account in New
York and via messages sent to Iran. ''He did this over and over and over again,
over several years,'' she said.

Mr. Banki, who had been held without bond since his arrest in January, looked
stunned and shook his head in apparent disbelief as the verdict was announced.
His companion wept as she comforted his mother in the spectator section.

The jury, which deliberated for about four hours, found Mr. Banki guilty of
conspiracy, violating the trade embargo, operating an unlicensed
money-transmitting business and making false statements.

The jurors also found that he was not a principal in the embargo and
money-transmitting violations, but rather aided and abetted others. There were
no accusations of terrorism against Mr. Banki.

The judge, John F. Keenan, told jurors to return on Monday to address the
government's contentions that Mr. Banki should forfeit $3.4 million in criminal
proceeds in money and property. No sentencing date was set.

Until his arrest, Mr. Banki's life in the United States had been extraordinary,
his lawyers told the jury. He came to this country as a teenager, obtained
citizenship, graduated from Berkeley and earned a Ph.D. from Princeton. He had
worked at McKinsey & Company.

One defense lawyer, Tai H. Park, told jurors that Mr. Banki had applied himself
''like very few others do,'' and tried to do everything ''the right way'' until
he was ''set off his path by a misguided prosecution fraught with grievous
error.''

Mr. Park and his co-counsel, Baruch Weiss, vigorously maintained their client's
innocence and placed much blame on an inexperienced federal agent who they
suggested was ''seriously confused'' and ''gets it wrong a lot.''

Mr. Banki, they contended, had not sent money to Iran; he had only received
money -- legally -- from his family there.

Furthermore, they said, he reported the receipt to the Internal Revenue Service
and responded truthfully when questioned about it by the Federal Bureau of
Investigation as early as 2002, and later by Treasury officials.

''The undisputed facts in this case,'' Mr. Park said, ''establish not guilt, not
criminality, but innocence, the state of mind of an innocent man who repeatedly
submits to the scrutiny of the government with full transparency.''

Mr. Banki's family was sending him money because of family problems -- to keep
it away from his father's mistress in Iran, his lawyers said.

The indictment charged that Mr. Banki helped operate a hawala in which money
went from one party to another through brokers, known as hawaladars, in the
United States and Iran.

There were no ''physical or electronic transmissions of funds between the United
States and Iran,'' the indictment said. Rather, money was paid by customers to
brokers in one country, like the United States, and a corresponding amount of
money was disbursed by brokers to recipients in Iran.

In their closing arguments, the prosecutors, Ms. Perry and Anirudh Bansal, both
emphasized Mr. Banki's role. Ms. Perry said disbursements were made in Iran
after  Mr. Banki sent word that he had received funds in his account in New
York.

''He provided the critical communication that allowed the money to be paid out
in Iran,'' she said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Former Manager of Kosher Slaughterhouse in Iowa Is Acquitted of Labor Charges

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 604 words


The former manager of a kosher slaughterhouse in Iowa that was the site of a
2008 immigration raid was acquitted on Monday of criminal charges that he
knowingly employed under-age workers at the plant.

After a five-week trial in state court in Waterloo, Iowa, the jury rejected
prosecutors' arguments that the manager, Sholom Rubashkin, had seen many warning
signs that child laborers were working on production lines at the Agriprocessors
plant. The jury, after about 12 hours of deliberations, found Mr. Rubashkin not
guilty of all 67 charges of child labor violations.

''The key was whether the state had evidence that Mr. Rubashkin actually knew
that minors were working in the plant and willfully permitted that condition to
exist,'' said Mark Weinhardt, a defense lawyer. ''The state simply did not have
evidence to prove that.''

The verdict brought rare good news for Mr. Rubashkin since the raid at the plant
in Postville on May 12, 2008, when federal agents arrested 389 illegal
immigrants, most from Guatemala. The operation became an emblem of the
high-profile immigration enforcement strategy under President George W. Bush.

In November, Mr. Rubashkin was convicted in federal court in Iowa of 86 counts
of bank fraud in connection with loans to Agriprocessors. Federal prosecutors
are seeking a 25-year sentence on those charges. Sentencing is scheduled for
June 22.

Iowa's child labor case was the only criminal action against Mr. Rubashkin
arising from the large number of illegal immigrants who were employed at the
plant. After winning the financial fraud conviction, federal prosecutors
dismissed all immigration-related charges against him.

The trial testimony left no doubt that at least 29 under-age laborers, and
probably many more, were working on the slaughter and packing lines at the
Agriprocessors plant. Nilda Nuritza Rucal testified that she was put to work
without training on the day she was hired, taking feathers off chickens with
sharp scissors. She said she was 15 at the time.

Another immigrant, Elmer Isaias Lopez Marroquin, testified that a human
resources manager at the plant instructed him to lie about his age to state
inspectors. He said he was 16 when he started to work on the plant's killing
floors.

When they were hired, the under-age workers presented false documents showing
they were at least 18, the legal age to work in production areas of Iowa
slaughterhouses, according to testimony.

The jury foreman, Quentin Hart, a Waterloo councilman, said after the trial that
the jurors doubted the young immigrants' credibility. ''Each one of them
indicated they didn't tell the truth and indicated they knew they had to be over
the age of 18 to get a job, so they acquired documentation from somewhere,'' Mr.
Hart said, according to The Associated Press.

Thomas H. Miller, the Iowa deputy attorney general in charge of the criminal
bureau, said prosecutors were disappointed with the verdict. ''When we had this
many minors working on a slaughterhouse floor, we felt this was a fight that
needed to be fought,'' he said.

F. Montgomery Brown, another defense lawyer, said of the acquittal, ''This is a
vindication by a courageous jury that Sholom is not the kind of man who would
want minors working'' in the plant.

The end of the case is likely to be bitter for many of the 29 young immigrants
who agreed to testify in the state trial, including seven who were flown back
from Guatemala by prosecutors. While a handful of them received special United
States visas for victims of abuse, most had temporary immigration status that
expires now that the trial is over.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sholom Rubashkin, the former slaughterhouse manager, and a
defense lawyer, Mark Weinhardt, after hearing the verdict. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
MATTHEW PUTNEY/WATERLOO COURIER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 9, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

World Briefing: THE AMERICAS: Mexico: Border Shooting Causes Tension With United
States

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 306 words


MEXICO CITY -- Mexican authorities expressed fury at the shooting death of a
Mexican teenager on Monday night by a Border Patrol agent, while the FBI, which
is investigating the death, said the agent had been under attack by
rock-throwing migrants attempting to cross into El Paso, Texas.

The government of the Mexican state of Chihuahua condemned the killing of the
teenager, Sergio Adrian Hernandez Guereca, 15, calling it a blow to all Mexicans
and an example of the xenophobia that the anti-immigration law in Arizona has
fomented in the United States.

American officials described the shooting as an act of self defense. Several
agents were on a bike patrol in the concrete channel alongside the Rio Grande at
about 6:30 p.m. Monday when they encountered a group of suspected illegal
immigrants entering the United States. After two suspects were arrested, others
in the group fled just across the border to Mexico and began throwing rocks at
the agents, the FBI said in a statement. One agent fired several shots and hit
the victim, who died at the base of the Paso Del Norte international bridge,
officials said.

The Border Patrol says it is subjected to hundreds of rock attacks during its
patrols and takes them seriously. From October 2007 to the end of May 2008,
there were 537 rock-throwing incidents involving agents, officials said. That
number dropped to 460 the following year and then rose to 604 incidents in the
most recent reporting period, which ended on May 31.

''There's a misperception people have that we're having pebbles thrown at us,''
said Mark Qualia, a United States Customs and Border Protection spokesman in
Washington. ''They are stones the size of baseballs in some cases or half a
brick. You can't take this lightly.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Fee Increase for Immigration Papers Planned

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 364 words


The Obama administration on Wednesday proposed an overall increase of about 10
percent in fees for immigration documents, but kept the fee for immigrants to
become United States citizens unchanged.

Alejandro Mayorkas, director of Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the
fee increase was necessary because declining applications for documents in the
past two years had lowered revenues and left his agency -- which is 90 percent
financed by fees -- with a budget shortfall of about $200 million for the coming
fiscal year.

''We understand the effect of a fee increase on many of the communities we
serve,'' Mr. Mayorkas said.

Under the proposal, the fee to apply for a green card, the document for legal
permanent residents, would increase to $985 from $930. The application for
employment authorization would increase to $380 from $340. A separate fee for
fingerprints and other biometrics with many applications would increase to $85
from $80.

Among several new fees, officials said, will be a $6,230 charge for foreigners
proposing to invest $500,000 or more in businesses to create jobs in the United
States.

The fee for naturalization would remain at $595. That fee was raised in July
2007 by 69 percent and the immigration agency was overwhelmed by applications
from immigrants rushing to file ahead of that increase. Since then,
naturalization applications have dropped steeply and advocates blamed the higher
fee for discouraging eligible immigrants from becoming citizens.

''We are particularly pleased that President Obama is holding true to statements
he made during his campaign on the need for keeping citizenship affordable,''
said Fred Tsao, policy director of the Illinois Coalition for Immigrant and
Refugee Rights in Chicago.

Some fees will be reduced, like the one for foreign fiancees or fiances seeking
to come here to marry citizens, which would drop to $340 from $455. Fees for
temporary immigrants to become permanent residents would also decline, to $1,020
from $1,370.

The proposed fees will be officially published this week, opening a 45-day
period for public comment, Mr. Mayorkas said. The new fees would take effect
sometime before Oct. 1.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Sound of No Hands Clapping

BYLINE: By SAM DOLNICK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1120 words


With the World Cup on, little pockets of immigrant New York will be stopping for
hours at a time to watch their homelands compete. They will gather in groups
large and small, in ethnic restaurants and sports bars, in Little Brazil in
Midtown and Little Ghana in the Bronx.

But there is one team that will not be cheered by New York revelers, one team
without local fans planning raffles or mixing special drinks. The team
represents an international pariah, a closed-off dictatorship and the
lowest-ranked country in the tournament this year: North Korea.

The North Korean soccer team qualified for the World Cup for the first time in
more than four decades, but the historic achievement has failed to arouse much
passion among the soccer intelligentsia or among fans looking for an underdog to
root for. Even the most hard-core soccer zealots struggle to name the North
Korean lineup, and the country's expatriate community is so small that it could
hardly field its own soccer scrimmage.

Federal officials say North Koreans who come to the United States fall into
different categories: those who are refugees and those with other visas.

The number of North Korean with refugee status who came to New York State in the
last fiscal year is four. The total number that has been resettled in the state
is 18. Federal officials declined to say how many refugees were in New York City
because the number is so small that they could be tracked down by North Korean
officials or their proxies.

In the United States, there are 99 North Korean refugees, the State Department
said. More North Korean immigrants have received visas to come to the United
States, but their ranks are still sparse -- only 1,293 since 1992. There are
perhaps several hundred living in the city illegally, advocates say. The largest
group may be ethnic North Koreans who hail from the Chinese side of the
mountainous border, said Steven Choi, an advocate for Korean immigrants.

But the community, if it can be called that, is not one to gather in groups or
draw attention to itself. New York City, home to Tibetan restaurants and
Albanian social clubs, does not have a North Korean bar, or any other
establishment dedicated to the community, according to Korean leaders.

The refugees are secretive and cautious when dealing with outsiders and with one
another. They must always remain on guard for spies who could leak their name or
their location to North Korean authorities, advocates say.

To leave North Korea is akin to an act of treason, and the regime has been known
to crack down on the relatives in North Korea of those who manage to escape.
Nerves have been especially frayed since South Korea accused the North of
sinking one of its warships in March, killing 46 sailors.

Some refugees are so distrustful of Kim Jong-il's regime that they are
ambivalent about the World Cup because the government uses sports to burnish the
leader's cult of personality, say those who know the small North Korean refugee
community.

It all adds up to a meager local cheering section when North Korea begins play
on Tuesday. How do you wave the flag when revealing your nationality is enough
to raise fears of arrest?

Curious would-be North fans searching for company could head to the Save North
Korean Refugees group, on Amsterdam Avenue on the Upper West Side.

But there, at the corner of 96th Street, they will find no signs of a North
Korean enclave. Instead, at the address listed on the group's Web site, there is
only a cluttered liquor store with a poster of the rapper Fabolous out front and
a display advertising Moet champagne in the window. There is a wide selection of
kosher wine, but no North Korean soccer posters, or even a television to watch
the match.

Henry Kim, the owner of Roma Wine and Liquor and the founder of the refugee
advocacy group, was born in North Korea but moved to the South during the war.
He did not know about the soccer match but, when informed, said he would watch
it at home with his wife.

Perhaps soccer fans would be better off visiting the only official North Korean
outpost in the city, the country's mission to the United Nations in Midtown. The
office is on the 13th floor of the sleek Diplomat Centre, 2 floors below the
Syria's consulate and 11 above Madagascar's.

So, North Korean officials, are there any events scheduled for the game on
Tuesday against Brazil?

''We do not have any programs planned,'' said a man speaking by phone from the
mission, who declined to provide his name or allow a reporter to visit the
office. ''We are so proud of ourselves that our team is participating in the
World Cup.'' Still, he added, ''Officially, the programs are not scheduled.''

Unofficially, however, he said the consular staff would probably watch the game
in the office. Visitors would not be invited.

Very few analysts, if any, have picked North Korea to upset Brazil, which has
won the World Cup five times, or either of the other two countries in its
bracket. But the team has played the role of Cinderella before; in 1966, the
last time it played in the World Cup, the team beat Italy 1-0 in a stunning
upset.

Sports can often transcend politics, allowing many Chinese immigrants to root
for teams from the mainland and Taiwan alike. The enmity between North Korea and
South Korea may be sharper, yet some South Korean immigrants said they expected
to root for both Korean teams in the World Cup.

''They are my country's enemy, but soccer is not politics,'' said Jimmy Park, a
South Korean immigrant who owns a deli in the Bronx. ''I want both teams to win
because it is the same country.''

Outside of New York, finding a North Korean viewing party does not get any
easier.

Joseph, 18, is a North Korean refugee living in Virginia. He escaped the
country, he said, by running alone across a frozen river at the Chinese border.
His father had starved to death, his sister had vanished in China and his mother
had abandoned him. He asked that his city and his last name not be published for
fear of reprisals from the North Korean government.

Joseph grew up playing soccer -- he has quick feet and good ball-handling skills
-- and he keeps a soccer ball in his bedroom. He said that he was very excited
about the World Cup and that he would watch the North Korean game from the
living room of his foster family's two-story home.

Although he still has nightmares about North Korea, he said that the game would
offer comforting reminders of home and that he would root hard for his underdog
squad.

''Even though I left the country I still miss my country; that is my
motherland,'' he said. ''The North Korean players are not the persons who made
me leave the country.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry Kim, left, founder of Save North Korean Refugees, and
Byung Sun Soh, the advocacy group's president, in Manhattan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 13, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Do You Take This Immigrant?

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2561 words


THE retired mechanic from Michigan looked shell-shocked beside his bride, a
classical pianist from Moscow who clutched the printed e-mail exchanges of their
Internet romance. Young newlyweds from Long Island, still recovering from their
reception for 600 guests the previous weekend, faltered as their lawyer quizzed
them on the details of their City Hall ceremony four months before. A Manhattan
woman bickered with her Turkish spouse about the kinds of questions they had
been warned to expect.

Did they know the color of each other's toothbrush? The pattern of the bathroom
tile? What had they done last New Year's? And were they ready to answer far more
intimate queries from a government official hunting for signs their marriage was
fake?

''Embarrassing questions,'' explained the Manhattanite, Lindsay Garvy-Yeguf, 28,
the butterfly tattoo on her foot growing jittery, as her husband, Gunes Yeguf,
31, turned paler in his dark suit. ''They might ask you about your sex life.''

These three were among dozens of couples inside federal immigration headquarters
in Manhattan one recent Tuesday, seated in a crowded waiting room where posters
exhorted everyone to ''Celebrate Citizenship, Celebrate America.''

Having flunked their first interviews with United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, they had entered the mysterious world of the ''Stokes
unit,'' a uniquely New York variation on the marriage interviews conducted
nationwide whenever a citizen seeks a green card for a foreign spouse. Named for
a 1976 federal court settlement that gave couples, among other protections, the
right to bring a lawyer to a second, recorded interview if their first one
raised suspicions of fraud, the Stokes unit recently doubled its staff to 22
officers.

It is a story line familiar from pop culture: ''The Proposal'' last year,
''Green Card'' in 1990. And while the authorities do not question the validity
of the marriage of Faisal Shahzad, the failed Times Square bomber, his arrest
last month did renew questions about the process of scrutinizing spousal
green-card petitions. Nationwide, the number of such petitions denied for fraud
is tiny: 506 of the 241,154 filed by citizens in the last fiscal year, or
two-tenths of 1 percent (an additional 7 percent were denied on other grounds,
like failing to show up for an interview).

Some critics contend that the low numbers simply show the system is easily
fooled, while others say that exaggerated estimates of marriage fraud over the
years have created a bureaucratic monster, thwarting legitimate, if
unconventional, couples and spurring unconstitutional intrusion into their
lives.

In some parts of the country, the authorities stage dawn bed checks. ''Someone
shows up at your house with a badge and a gun, unannounced,'' said Laura
Lichter, an immigration lawyer in Denver. '' 'Hi, we're here from immigration.
Do you mind if we come in to look and see if two towels are wet?' ''

While Stokes makes such home visits off-limits in New York State, lawyers and
immigrant advocates complain that, at its worst, the process is a Kafkaesque
version of ''The Newlywed Game,'' with dire consequences: those who fail can be
put on a path to deportation. Couples' futures together depend on proving
separately to a skeptical bureaucrat that, as the law states, they did not marry
''solely'' for a green card. (Passing the interviews simply makes a foreign
spouse eligible for a green card; getting one requires a separate application
and security clearance.)

In the modern jambalaya of online dating, arranged weddings, bicoastal
relationships, open marriages and serial divorce, a bona fide union can be
harder than ever to discern, leaving lovers who are unable to produce a
land-line telephone bill facing questions about birth control. That Tuesday in
the Stokes unit, one couple volunteered that the wife was eight weeks pregnant
only to have the husband be asked: ''Is it yours?''

''The latitude that officers have is broad, and one that has to be exercised
with a lot of care,'' said Andrea Quarantillo, the immigration agency's district
director for New York. ''Is it perfect? No. It's judgmental.''

According to an agency worksheet that was recently leaked online, red flags
include ''unusual cultural differences,'' a large age discrepancy, an
''unusual'' number of children and a citizen with meager means. Daniel Lundy, an
immigration lawyer, said the boxes on the worksheet ''pretty much invite racial
profiling and other stereotypes.''

''You could be married 50 years and still find it difficult to pass,'' Mr. Lundy
said of the Stokes process.

The unit's lore is worthy of its own reality TV series -- sham couples caught
red-handed, yes, but also quirky ones whose authenticity surprised everyone. The
gay man who claimed he had suddenly found his female soul mate (denied); the
recovering alcoholic who had lost his memory (approved); the man who volunteered
that he had erectile dysfunction in an attempt to explain why his mate did not
know the location of his nine tattoos (unsuccessful); the elderly citizen who
lost an arm in a subway accident, but found happiness with a young Caribbean
wife (successful).

''We can't impose our definition of marriage, especially being in New York,''
said Maria Guerra, a Stokes supervisor. ''We've seen it all.''

AN officer looked out on the waiting room, trying to read body language. Were
some couples over the top, snuggling and holding hands? Did some seem like
strangers?

In one corner were the newlyweds from Long Island: Ersan Kahyaoglu, 25, a
robustly built electrician, American born of Turkish descent, his rumpled shirt
hanging out; and Dilek Kahyaoglu, 21, Turkish but having lived in America for a
decade, slim in her fitted black suit.

''I think it's impossible to know all the answers,'' Mr. Kahyaoglu complained.
''I don't remember what color her dress was at the civil ceremony. It was, like,
different colors.''

His wife prompted him, gently: ''Black and white, flowery.''

''Who cooks?'' asked their lawyer, Raj Jadega, practicing. ''I cook,'' she said
proudly.

''When was the last time you made dinner?'' She looked blank.

''Then you don't cook,'' he said.

It would have been funny if the stakes were not so grave. The couple was an
automatic Stokes referral because the wife was in deportation proceedings. She
had come with her family on a tourist visa at 11 and was 13 when their
applications for green cards derailed because their first ''lawyer'' was not
one.

''The questions can be arbitrary and very detailed, and they're on the firing
line right now,'' Mr. Jadega said, as  the couple discussed the fine points of
each other's favorite music and food (Techno? More like rock. Chicken parmigiana
or stuffed peppers? Chicken.) ''If a certain number of questions are answered
incorrectly,'' he said, ''they can stop the interview right there.''

It was hours later when the nervous groom emerged from his interview. The
officer had mainly asked ''basic stuff,'' he said: ''birth dates, the type of
house we live in, how much rent we pay -- maybe 25 questions.''

But then: was his wife on birth control?

''I said no,'' Mr. Kahyaoglu said. ''He said that could mean using condoms. I
said, 'No sir, we're not using anything.' ''

Separately, his wife was pressed about condom use, and said, ''Once in a
while.''

''How am I supposed to explain it to him?'' the groom asked later. '' 'Well,
sometimes I feel like reaching into the drawer by the bed -- '?''

Despite the discrepancy, they passed, and left rosy-cheeked, elated.

THE idea of marriage as a gateway for terrorists, and prosecutions of scandalous
fake-marriage rings, have periodically stirred alarm. In 1986, an estimate by
the immigration agency that one in three marriages were counterfeit spurred
Congressional preoccupation and tough laws, but turned out to be a gross
exaggeration -- it was later revised to 8 percent.

An agency audit of marriage fraud, conducted in 2007, has never been released.
When The New York Times filed a request for such data under the Freedom of
Information Act, the agency identified 656 relevant pages, but blacked out 655,
saying the information would disclose the deliberative process or law
enforcement techniques. The Times has appealed.

Agency officials said they could not provide New York statistics to compare with
national numbers, or even count what share of New York couples were referred to
the Stokes unit, because of a flawed computer system. Officials did agree to
track results during two weeks in April: 93 of the 114 couples interviewed were
approved, or 81 percent. In addition to the 21 interviewed couples whose denial
was pending, 2 other marriages were deemed invalid because prior divorces were
flawed, and 22 couples were no-shows denied out of hand.

On that Tuesday, 5 of the 25 couples in the Stokes waiting room were headed to
rejection because of discrepancies, though none were among those The Times had
interviewed beforehand, and none were classified as fraudulent.

''We're not mind readers,'' Ms. Guerra, the Stokes supervisor, said. ''If we
lived with them for a month, we might see they have a marriage. But if they get
everything wrong in the interview, we have to deny the case.''

Stokes supervisors said that officers were trained to avoid questions about sex,
but they cannot stop X-rated answers, like one from the citizen wife who was
asked what she did for her spouse's birthday and began recounting their night
together in explicit detail. Some couples offer photographic evidence in the
mistaken belief that the government requires proof of a marriage's consummation.

''It's not something a normal couple would do,'' Ms. Guerra said. ''They're
overcompensating.''

Occasionally the cubicle turns into a confessional, with one spouse revealing
infidelities -- even children -- unknown to the other. And though the criminal
penalties for marriage fraud are up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine,
a few citizens risk prosecution, withdraw their petition and exit by a back
door, leaving officers to break the news to the immigrant spouse.

Barbara Felska, a star of the Stokes unit, said her message to couples was: ''Do
not fear Stokes if your marriage is real -- all you need is love!'' But her
method is to seek evidence of three aspects of a marriage: legality (like valid
divorce decrees); the commingling of assets and other joint documentation (which
young or poor couples often lack); and ''mental and emotional connection through
shared life experience.''

The last is the most subjective, and Ms. Felska, 38, a naturalized citizen from
Poland who won the green card lottery, likes to dream up creative questions
while doing dishes. Like: ''What piece of jewelry means the most to your wife?''

On this Tuesday she was examining the three-year marriage of Yusuf Mohammed and
Sally Bines. Mr. Mohammed, 42, a twice-divorced and Muslim taxi driver, had not
seen his sons in Ghana for seven years; his first American wife had dropped her
petition for his green card. Ms. Bines, 41, a Christian divorcee of Puerto Rican
descent, was studying to be a teacher at Hostos Community College, where they
met.

They were ushered past a cubicle where an officer could be heard demanding,
''But are you the bill-payer?'' and again, louder, after some Spanish
translation, ''So you're the bill-payer, yes or no?''

Ms. Felska has a lighter touch. She tells couples: ''I should never know more
after interviewing your husband or your wife for 45 minutes as a federal officer
than you know about her or him after two years of marriage.'' The key moment,
she finds, is when couples try to explain mismatched answers.

Indeed, Ms. Bines left that afternoon in a huff over one of her husband's
responses. ''Some jewelry he said he bought me that he didn't buy, he's going to
buy me right now!'' she announced, as he tried to explain that he had always
meant to buy her that necklace.

The very real quarrel helped convince Ms. Felska that the marriage was real,
too.

ANOTHER union approved that day was the Internet romance between the retired
mechanic, Larry Christiansen, 66, and his Russian bride, Alla, 53, who has a
Ph.D. in music and a daughter at Baruch College.

Theirs was the kind of international courtship that Congress moved to regulate
in 2005, requiring that the citizen disclose any criminal record to the
foreigner --the first such law to cast the American husband as potential
villain. It was a striking shift from 1986, when Congress passed the Immigration
Marriage Fraud Amendments after hearings that harped on ''the devious foreign
husband trying to dupe some poor American citizen into marrying him,'' said
Kerry Abrams, a legal scholar at the University of Virginia.

Mr. Christiansen, a white-haired man with an  arthritic gait who was divorced in
2001 after 35 years of marriage, called his new union ''the best thing that ever
happened in my life,'' and was shocked when ''they even asked me if she paid me
to marry her!''

The couple's lawyer, Irina Matiychenko, was pleased to report that when the
officer reunited them and asked, ''Who's the boss?'' there was instant
disagreement.

''He said, 'I'm the boss.' And she said,  'No, you're not' '' -- a good sign
that she was not playing the part of docile mail-order bride vulnerable to an
abusive husband, Ms. Matiychenko explained.

Yes, there was a cultural gulf. ''I'm basically a redneck and she's very
sophisticated,'' Mr. Christiansen said. ''The princess marrying the frog.

''She's a sweetheart,'' he added. ''That's what drew me to her. When she smiles,
it's real.''

NO lawyer helped Miguelina Montalvo Diaz, a 32-year-old mother from Yonkers,
show that she and her Dominican husband of six months had a life together. The
letter summoning them listed documents to bring, including a letter from their
bank about joint accounts. So they quickly opened a joint account.

Red flag! Documents dated close to the interview immediately raise suspicion. A
Stokes officer asked Ms. Diaz to explain. ''I didn't want to have a joint
account,'' Ms. Diaz said she protested. ''You guys asked for that!''

But the couple emerged later arm-in-arm, giddy. Their separate answers to
questions like ''Where do you keep the hamper?'' and ''Where do you keep the
shoes?'' were ''100 percent on target,'' said Ms. Diaz, who was recently laid
off from a department store, and describes her husband, Ramon Emilio Diaz, who
has four sons in the Dominican Republic, as a wonderful father to her 3-year-old
boy. ''We did good.''

Still, they were not home free. The immigration officer had noticed that Mr.
Diaz still had a separate account, in addition to their joint one. ''They said
he needs to put me on that account,'' Ms. Diaz said, adding, ''My mom has been
married 25 years and they don't have a joint account.''

She was not about to argue. In the balance was the green card that would let Mr.
Diaz easily visit the Dominican Republic and return. And because they had been
married less than two years, Mr. Diaz could be granted only a ''conditional''
green card. In two years, they could be back in the Stokes waiting room, facing
another round of personal questions from another stranger.

Coming Monday: A Queens couple, married 17 years and denied three times, is
still asking for a green card.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RAMON EMILIO DIAZ & MIGUELINA MONTALVO DIAZ: She: '''If we get
approved, I will go to meet his kids.''
LARRY & ALLA CHRISTIANSEN: He: ''When she smiles, it's real.''
DILEK & ERSAN KAHYAOGLU: He: ''I think it's impossible to know all the
answers.''
LINDSAY GARVY-YEGUF & GUNES YEGUF: She: ''They might ask you about your sex
life.'' (MB1)
 UNDER THE MICROSCOPE: Above, an immigration office where people were having
their marriages scrutinized. At left, Michelle Xu, with her son, Kevin Hong, is
going through the process with her husband, Jimmy Hong. Below, Barbara Felska,
an immigration officer, with a video recorder on her desk, meets with one
couple, Sally Bines and Yusuf Mohammed, and their lawyer, Daniel Lundy.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 14, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Wed in 1993, but Still in Immigration Limbo

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1356 words


In their cluttered studio apartment in Astoria, Queens, after nearly 17 years of
marriage, Shari Feldman and Inderjit Singh seem like a pair of old shoes -- a
little the worse for wear but comfortable with each other's creases.

''Our marriage certificate is so old, it's yellow,'' Ms. Feldman, 51, joked over
the Bollywood soundtrack that blared from the TV. ''Hey, honey, would you turn
that down?''

Yet three petitions and five marriage interviews have failed to convince federal
immigration authorities that the couple's union is not a charade to get a green
card for Mr. Singh, 45, a car service driver from India.

Last year, after they reapplied with a new lawyer, United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services refused to interrogate them again, citing the conflicting
answers they gave four years ago to questions like what Mr. Singh wore at their
1993 wedding and whether he had taken Ms. Feldman out to eat on her last
birthday.

The couple may be an extreme case, but they are not alone. As immigration
authorities have stepped up efforts to ferret out sham marriages among hundreds
of thousands of petitions by United States citizens seeking green cards for
their foreign spouses, cases of longtime couples cast into limbo have
multiplied.

Petitions by 20,507 citizens were denied in the last fiscal year, or 7.2 percent
of the total; of these, only 506 were for fraud, and the rest were for reasons
like discrepancies in the couples' answers or not showing up for an interview.

One Florida pair spent two years fighting for recognition of their seven-year
marriage, and in the end had to prove their love to an immigration court to halt
the wife's deportation back to Peru; a nun testified on behalf of the couple,
who worked at a flea market in Tampa.

In an Oregon case, it took four years and two federal lawsuits to force the
agency to accept the marriage of an American woman and her Algerian husband,
despite the birth of two children; it emerged in legal discovery that government
investigators had collected hundreds of pages of information on the wife and her
associates.

Immigration officials, who say they cannot discuss individual cases, acknowledge
that mistakes are sometimes made. But they point out that the burden of proof is
on the couple, and that the duration of a marriage can cut two ways.

''They've been married 8, 10 years, and they don't know a thing about each
other?'' asked Barbara Felska, a veteran in the Stokes unit, the New York office
that quizzes spouses separately, then compares their answers to determine
whether their relationship is real. ''You don't know his medical conditions, or
that he has high blood pressure?''

The predicament of Ms. Feldman and Mr. Singh reflects what legal scholars see as
a growing tension in national values between the protection of marriage from
government intrusion, and the regulation of marriage through immigration laws.

The couple has appealed, but they worry that Mr. Singh will meanwhile be
deported.

''I couldn't live without him,'' said Ms. Feldman, a short, wisecracking woman
who credits her husband with helping her cope with her diabetes, asthma and
years of being legally blind. He nursed her, she said, through several eye
operations that restored her sight in 2008, when she finally saw him well enough
to crow, ''Honey, you're the one with the wrinkles, not me.''

Her surgeon, Dr. Gary Hirschfield, confirmed that Mr. Singh had been supportive.
''I can definitely affirm that he was involved and interested, and he was
present and involved post-op,'' Dr. Hirschfield said.

Mr. Singh entered the country illegally in 1992 but could be granted a spousal
green card -- a fast track to citizenship -- under the more forgiving
immigration laws governing those who wed citizens before May 2001.

He estimates that he has spent $20,000 on immigration fees, fines and legal
costs, most of it borrowed from an uncle. He did not visit his mother in India
after his father's death two years ago, for fear he would not be allowed to
return to his wife.

''Sometimes I feel like I'm going to jump out the window and finish,'' he said
in imperfect English, brewing tea near an image of a Sikh prophet and the Jesus
clock he bought his wife at a 99-cent store. ''But I know she need me.''

From a jumble of documents and photo albums on their king-size bed, they pulled
out their joint apartment lease, tax filings and bank statements. But the
immigration agency dismissed such documents in its last denial letter, dated
Aug. 10, 2009,  noting, for example, that the joint account they opened in 1997
showed low balances of $8.11 and $62.15 in two 2008 statements.

The letter concluded that their documents did not outweigh the discrepancies in
answers the couple gave at their 2006 interview -- like her statement that their
rent was $677.17, while he said, ''About $700.''

''If I was, in fact, fraudulently married to my husband for the purposes of
obtaining a green card for him, would I have continued to file over and over and
over again?'' Ms. Feldman wrote in a letter of protest. ''If my husband only
married me to obtain a green card, I am sure he would have left me many years
ago and found a wife that would fit the U.S.C.I.S.'s idea of what a couple
should be.''

The couple say they wish that federal officials would just go up to their
fifth-floor apartment to see how they manage on her Supplemental Security Income
disability payments and his meager wages.

In other states, the immigration service often uses such home inspections, a
practice that many complain violates privacy rights without guaranteeing better
decisions. But in New York, so-called bed checks are considered off limits for
the Stokes unit, named for a 1976 federal court settlement that came after
reports by citizens of being coerced into withdrawing their petitions.

Under the settlement, if a couple's first interview raises suspicions of fraud,
the agency must give applicants a chance to hire a lawyer before a second
interview; it must let them explain discrepancies; and it must record the
sessions for possible appeal.

In the Queens couple's most recent  petition, their lawyer asked for extra
patience from the Stokes examiner, saying Mr. Singh had memory problems because
he had been hit on the head with a gun during robberies of the candy store where
he used to work.

Officials denied the request for a new interview and instead reiterated the long
list of the couple's mismatched answers in 2006, starting with accounts of their
first meeting, in a local park in the summer of 1993.

It was ''music night,'' Ms. Feldman recalled; Mr. Singh said there was no
special event -- perhaps, she later said, because the music was over by the time
they met. She said she had taken his phone number but refused to provide hers;
he said they had exchanged numbers.

At their wedding, she recalled, he wore a suit coat; he remembered a leather
jacket. He did not know why her mother had not attended; she said her mother
lived too far away -- in New Jersey.

One can see why the interviewers were suspicious. New Jersey is not far from New
York. Why did Mr. Singh seem so disconnected from his mother-in-law, and so hazy
about Ms. Feldman's sister? (She lives ''in Oahu or Ohio,'' he had ventured.)

A call to the sister, Lauren Stuart, shed some light. ''I can't stand him,''
said Ms. Stuart, who has lived in Ohio and Hawaii and now resides in Colorado.
''They have a marriage, I know that. He probably got the questions wrong because
he's an idiot.''

Ms. Feldman was reluctant to talk about her relatives but said the family had
never forgiven Mr. Singh for drinking too much at her high school reunion in
1994 and dancing by himself.

''Nobody sees him my way,'' Ms. Feldman said. ''I know him good, bad and ugly.
He is a kind man, and probably the only person who gives a damn about me.''

But if the government does not separate them, they could have the last laugh.
''We look around and everybody's marriage is falling apart,'' said Ms. Feldman,
whose mother has been married four times. ''We're so matched we can't even
figure it out.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Inderjit Singh and Shari Feldman at home in Queens. They have
tried to persuade immigration authorities that their long marriage is
legitimate.
In 2006, Mr. Singh was asked what he wore at their wedding in 1993.(A16)
In 2006, Inderjit Singh and his wife paid $677.17 rent
 he said it was ''about $700,'' immigration interviewers noted critically.
(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)  (A18)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Justices Ease Deportation Rule in Minor Drug Cases

BYLINE: By ADAM LIPTAK

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1030 words


WASHINGTON -- Immigrants who are legally in the United States need not be
automatically deported for minor drug offenses, the Supreme Court ruled Monday
in a unanimous decision.

Lower courts had said that Jose Angel Carachuri-Rosendo, a permanent resident of
the United States who had lived here since 1983, when he was 5, was subject to
mandatory deportation for a second drug offense, this one involving possession
of single tablet of a prescription drug.

The question in the case was whether that second offense amounted to an
''aggravated felony.'' If it did, the government had no choice but to deport him
under the immigration laws. If it did not, the attorney general had the
discretion to show leniency.

In 2004, Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo was sentenced by a Texas state court judge to 20
days in jail for possession of less than two ounces of marijuana. The next year,
he was sentenced to 10 days in jail for having a single tablet of Xanax, an
anti-anxiety drug, without a prescription.

Those were both misdemeanors under state law. But federal authorities argued
that a second drug offense counted as an aggravated felony under federal law,
making Mr. Carachuri-Rosendo ineligible for discretionary relief from
deportation.

Justice John Paul Stevens, writing for seven justices, said the interactions of
the various state and federal laws in the case required analysis of a ''maze of
statutory cross-references'' and a 2006 decision, Lopez v. Gonzales, that rooted
the definition of ''aggravated felony'' in federal law even when state offenses
were involved.

At bottom, Justice Stevens wrote, ''a 10-day sentence for the unauthorized
possession of a trivial amount of a prescription drug'' is at odds with the
ordinary meaning of ''aggravated felony,'' even if federal prosecutors could, in
theory, have sought a two-year sentence in federal court for the second drug
offense.

''Carachuri-Rosendo, and others in his position, may now seek cancellation of
removal and thereby avoid the harsh consequence of mandatory removal,'' Justice
Stevens wrote. But ''any relief he may obtain depends upon the discretion of the
attorney general.''

Justices Antonin Scalia and Clarence Thomas, in separate concurrences, voted
with the majority but declined to adopt its reasoning in the case,
Carachuri-Rosendo v. Holder, No. 09-60.

Capital Punishment

A death-row inmate in Florida was given a second chance to argue that an
otherwise strict one-year filing deadline should not apply to him, in light of
his lawyer's inaccessibility and incompetence. The vote was 7 to 2.

The case concerned an unusually diligent and savvy inmate, Albert Holland, and
an uncommunicative lawyer, Bradley Collins, who was appointed to handle Mr.
Holland's habeas corpus challenges to his murder conviction and death sentence.

Mr. Holland complained to the Florida Supreme Court in June 2004 of ''a complete
breakdown in communications,'' saying he had not seen or spoken to his lawyer in
14 months and felt abandoned. He asked for a new lawyer.

Florida prosecutors responded that Mr. Holland was not allowed to communicate
with the court directly because he was represented by counsel, an argument
accepted by the court. In a concurrence on Monday, Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr.
called that ruling perverse.

Over the years, Mr. Holland peppered his lawyer with letters reminding him of a
tight filing deadline in federal court that would follow a decision by the State
Supreme Court. He wrote to his lawyer to explain the relevant procedures.
(''Holland was right about the law,'' Justice Stephen G. Breyer wrote in
Monday's majority decision.)

Nonetheless, Mr. Collins neither informed his client when the state court ruled
against him nor filed the required papers in time to seek review in federal
court.

When Mr. Holland learned independently of the state court decision in the prison
library, he immediately filed his own paperwork, but it was too late.

In a rare response to a letter from Mr. Holland, Mr. Collins said that the
relevant deadlines had passed by the time he was appointed to the case.
(''Collins was wrong about the law,'' Justice Breyer wrote.)

The question in the case was whether Mr. Collins's conduct was sufficient to
suspend a deadline in a 1996 law limiting death penalty litigation. The court
did not decide that question, but it said the appeals court had used too narrow
a standard in saying that a lawyer's negligence was never enough.

Justice Breyer's opinion was joined by Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and
Justices Stevens, Anthony M. Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor.

Justice Alito largely agreed but said the majority had not laid down a clear
standard of its own. He suggested that the salient facts in the case, Holland v.
Florida, No. 09-5327, were Mr. Collins's apparent abandonment of his client and
prosecutors' insistence that only Mr. Collins could speak for Mr. Holland.

Justice Scalia, joined by Justice Thomas, dissented. He said the court was
powerless under the Constitution to rewrite the  law.

''The court's impulse to intervene when a litigant's lawyer has made mistakes is
understandable; the temptation to tinker with the technical rules to achieve
what appears a just result is often strong, especially when the client faces a
capital sentence,'' Justice Scalia said. But he added that ''unelected judges''
must resist such impulses.

California Prisons

The court agreed to hear arguments over whether a special panel of federal
judges in California was authorized to order the release of  40,000 inmates from
state prisons to relieve overcrowding. The case is Schwarzenegger v. Plata, No.
09-1233.

Rendition

The court declined to hear an appeal from Maher Arar, a Canadian who says
American officials sent him to Syria to be tortured. The federal appeals court
in New York ruled last year that Mr. Arar could not sue for damages because
Congress had not authorized such suits.

The Supreme Court gave no reasons for its decision, and there were no noted
dissents. Justice Sotomayor, who had participated in the appeals court argument,
disqualified herself from the case, Arar v. Ashcroft, No. 09-923.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 17, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Rhode Island: Government Remains A Plaintiff in Detainee Case

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING NEW ENGLAND; Pg.
17

LENGTH: 149 words


A judge has denied the federal government's request to be dismissed from a
lawsuit over the death of an immigration detainee in Central Falls. Hiu Lui Ng
died of liver cancer in 2008 while in the custody of the Donald W. Wyatt
Detention Facility. A lawsuit filed by his widow accuses Wyatt staff of abusing
and medically neglecting Mr. Ng, a Chinese computer engineer from New York who
had been detained for overstaying a visa. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
acknowledged that he was mistreated but argued that the government could not be
held legally responsible for the actions of a contractor. The jail had
contracted with the government to house immigration detainees, though that
arrangement was canceled after Mr. Ng's death. Judge William Smith of Federal
District Court denied the government's motion Monday, saying the lawsuit
''paints a harrowing picture'' of government negligence.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

A Wife's Plea to Obama Led to an Immigrant's Arrest for Deportation

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1110 words


The letter appealing to President Obama was written in frustration in January,
by a woman who saw her family reflected in his. She was a white United States
citizen married to an African man, and the couple -- college-educated
professionals in Manhattan -- were stymied in their long legal battle to keep
him in the country.

Could the president help, asked the woman, Caroline Jamieson, a marketing
executive. She described the impasse that confronted her husband, Herve Fonkou
Takoulo, a citizen of Cameroon with an outstanding deportation order from a
failed bid for asylum.

The response came on June 3, when two immigration agents stopped Mr. Takoulo,
34, in front of the couple's East Village apartment building. He says one agent
asked him, ''Did you write a letter to President Obama?''

When he acknowledged that his wife had, he was handcuffed and sent to an
immigration jail in New Jersey for deportation.

But on Thursday night, Mr. Takoulo was just as suddenly released, after
Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials had been questioned about the case
by The New York Times. Officials said they were investigating how the letter --
one of thousands routinely referred to the agency by the White House to gather
information for a reply -- had been improperly used by the agency's ''fugitive
operations'' unit to find and arrest Mr. Takoulo, who has an engineering degree
and no criminal record.

While Mr. Takoulo is still subject to the deportation order, immigration
officials acknowledged that their actions in the case seemed to violate their
standard practice of not using letters seeking help from elected officials as
investigative leads. The handling of the case also conflicted with the Obama
administration's stated policy of arresting deportable immigrants only if they
have criminal records.

The agency is investigating how it happened, a spokesman said, and has released
Mr. Takoulo on an electronic ankle monitor while his case is reviewed.

''ICE has a zero tolerance policy for violations of civil rights,'' the
spokesman, Brian P. Hale, said in a statement.

Though the case is being treated as an anomaly that breached accepted
procedures, a senior agency official acknowledged that there were no written
guidelines on the handling of such letters, and that there was no way to know
whether similar correspondence had prompted arrests and deportations. If the
investigation bears out what officials have learned so far, ''it also flies in
the face of our stated priorities to target criminal fugitives,'' said the
official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the agency had not
authorized further discussion of the case.

So far, it appears that Ms. Jamieson's Jan. 10 letter to the president reached
the executive secretariat of the immigration enforcement agency on March 8. The
secretariat, which handles all official correspondence, sent it to the New York
field office the next day, asking for help in drafting a response.

The letter explained that Ms. Jamieson, 42, had filed a petition seeking a green
card for her husband on the basis of their 2005 marriage. But before they met,
Mr. Takoulo, who first arrived in the country on a temporary business visa, had
applied for political asylum and had been denied it by an immigration judge in
Baltimore, who ordered him deported. Only if the agency's chief counsel in
Baltimore agreed to reopen the case, the letter said, could that order be
suspended long enough for the couple to safely go to federal immigration
headquarters in Manhattan for an interview to prove that their marriage was not
a sham.

Mr. Takoulo said he had hoped the president would intervene.  ''He's even said
on TV that he needs engineers,'' said Mr. Takoulo, who worked his way through
the Stony Brook University and says he now spends his days trading stocks from
the couple's apartment because he lacks papers to accept the engineering jobs he
was offered when he graduated in 2008.

Typically, officials said, the New York field office would have sent a letter
like Ms. Jamieson's back to the secretariat in Washington with a summary of the
case, or would perhaps have referred the matter to Baltimore, where the old
deportation case was based. Instead, someone promptly sent it to the district's
fugitive operations unit. Two agents were dispatched to the East Village to wait
for Mr. Takoulo, who was stopped about 9:30 a.m. as he left home.

He said they told him, ''We're ICE and we're here to arrest you because
President Obama sent the letter for a review, and we reviewed it and we denied
it.''

He was soon in shackles, on his way to the Hudson County Correctional Center in
New Jersey, where he spent two weeks in a dormitory with 47 other men, mostly
criminal offenders.

Ms. Jamieson campaigned for his release with help from colleagues at Digitas, a
new-media advertising company. When the latest legal motion to reopen his case
was denied last week, she turned to the news media. Friends and family had
filled a dossier with affidavits testifying to the couple's loving relationship,
which began seven years ago at an East Village cafe where Mr. Takoulo worked.

On Thursday night, she sobbed with relief as she embraced her newly released
husband outside an immigration processing jail on Varick Street. Later, they
celebrated with his two nieces who are studying at New York colleges on student
visas. But Ms. Jamieson veered between joy and distress.

''I've been feeling very confused and ashamed as an American citizen,'' she
said, evoking her family's eclectic immigrant origins. Her father, an emeritus
professor of East Asian languages and cultures at the University of California,
Berkeley, is the son of Scottish immigrants; her mother's family were refugees
from North Korea; her stepmother is Chinese; and her sister's husband is
Egyptian.

All experienced some immigration problems, she said, but ''the idea that in the
year 2010 I and my family are having the worst and the most barbaric experience
-- it's just shameful to me.''

Ms. Jamieson recalled that she cried when Mr. Obama said during a 2008 campaign
speech, ''With a mother from Kansas and a father from Kenya -- ''

''I said, 'Oh, Herve, even the alliteration is right -- with a mother from
California and a father from Cameroon, our child could do the same!' ''

But they have postponed having the baby they both want, she said, because of his
precarious immigration status. One step forward: officials told him he will be
granted a work permit after he reports to immigration headquarters on July 1.

''I won't stop fighting,'' Ms. Jamieson said. ''He's the love of my life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Herve Fonkou Takoulo and Caroline Jamieson, above, after his
release from federal immigration custody on Thursday. Jail authorities had taken
his shoelaces and belt. At left, a family photo of the couple, with a copy of
her letter to the president. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK
TIMES
 DAVID GOLDMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 20, 2010 Sunday
                              Correction Appended
                              Late Edition - Final

In Border Violence, Perception Is Greater Than Crime Statistics

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1326 words


When Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, announced that the
Obama administration would send as many as 1,200 additional National Guard
troops to bolster security at the Mexican border, she held up a photograph of
Robert Krentz, a mild-mannered rancher who was shot to death this year on his
vast property. The authorities suspected that the culprit was linked to
smuggling.

''Robert Krentz really is the face behind the violence at the U.S.-Mexico
border,'' Ms. Giffords said.

It is a connection that those who support stronger enforcement of immigration
laws and tighter borders often make: rising crime at the border necessitates
tougher enforcement.

But the rate of violent crime at the border, and indeed across Arizona, has been
declining, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as has illegal
immigration, according to the Border Patrol. While thousands have been killed in
Mexico's drug wars, raising anxiety that the violence will spread to the United
States, F.B.I. statistics show that Arizona is relatively safe.

That Mr. Krentz's death nevertheless churned the emotionally charged immigration
debate points to a fundamental truth: perception often trumps reality, sometimes
affecting laws and society in the process.

Judith Gans, who studies immigration at the Udall Center for Studies in Public
Policy at the University of Arizona, said that what social psychologists call
self-serving perception bias seemed to be at play. Both sides in the immigration
debate accept information that confirms their biases, she said, and discard,
ignore or rationalize information that does not. There is no better example than
the role of crime in Arizona's tumultuous immigration debate.

''If an illegal immigrant commits a crime, this confirms our view that illegal
immigrants are criminals,'' Ms. Gans said. ''If an illegal immigrant doesn't
commit a crime, either they just didn't get caught or it's a fluke of the
situation.''

Ms. Gans noted that sponsors of Arizona's controversial immigration enforcement
law have made careers of promising to rid the state of illegal immigrants
through tough legislation.

''Their repeated characterization of illegal immigrants as criminals -- easy to
do since they broke immigration laws -- makes it easy for people to ignore
statistics,'' she said.

Moreover, crime statistics, however rosy, are abstract. It takes only one
well-publicized crime, like Mr. Krentz's shooting, to drive up fear.

It is also an election year, and crime and illegal immigration -- and especially
forging a link between the two -- remain a potent boost for any campaign. Gov.
Jan Brewer's popularity, once in question over promoting a sales tax increase,
surged after signing the immigration bill, which is known as SB 1070 but
officially called the Support Our Law Enforcement and Safe Neighborhoods Act.

No matter that manpower and technology are at unprecedented levels at the
border, it may never be secure enough in Arizona's hothouse political climate
when Congressional seats, the governor's office and other positions are at stake
in the Aug. 24 primaries.

It took the Obama administration a few weeks to bow to that political reality
and go from trumpeting the border as more secure than it had ever been to
ordering National Guard troops to take up position there -- most of them in
Arizona, Mr. Obama assured Ms. Brewer in a private meeting -- because it was not
secure enough.

Crime figures, in fact, present a more mixed picture, with the likes of Russell
Pearce, the Republican state senator behind the immigration enforcement law,
playing up the darkest side while immigrant advocacy groups like Coalicion de
Derechos Humanos (Human Rights Coalition), based in Tucson, circulate news
reports and studies showing that crime is not as bad as it may seem.

For instance, statistics show that even as Arizona's population swelled, buoyed
in part by illegal immigrants funneling across the border, violent crime rates
declined, to 447 incidents per 100,000 residents in 2008, the most recent year
for which comprehensive data is available from the F.B.I. In 2000, the rate was
532 incidents per 100,000.

Nationally, the crime rate declined to 455 incidents per 100,000 people, from
507 in 2000.

But the rate for property crime, the kind that people may experience most often,
increased in the state, to 4,082 per 100,000 residents in 2008 from 3,682 in
2000. Preliminary data for 2009 suggests that this rate may also be falling in
the state's biggest cities.

What is harder to pin down is how much of the crime was committed by illegal
immigrants.

Phoenix's police chief, Jack Harris, who opposes the new law, said that about 13
percent of his department's arrests are illegal immigrants, a number close to
the estimated percentage of illegal immigrants in the local population. But the
Maricopa County Sheriff's Office, which runs the jail for Phoenix and
surrounding cities and is headed by Joe Arpaio, a fervent supporter of the law,
has said that 19 percent of its inmates are illegal immigrants.

Scott Decker, a criminologist at Arizona State University, said a battery of
studies have suggested that illegal immigrants commit fewer crimes, in part
because they tend to come from interior cities and villages in their home
country with low crime rates and generally try to keep out of trouble to not
risk being sent home.

But he understood why people's perceptions of crime might lag behind what the
statistics show. ''Hard as it is to change the crime rate, it may be more
difficult to change public perceptions about the crime rate, particularly when
those perceptions are linked to public events,'' Mr. Decker said.

He added, ''There is nothing more powerful than a story about a gruesome murder
or assault that leads in the local news and drives public opinion that it is not
safe anywhere.''

Kris Kobach, a University of Missouri law professor who helped write the Arizona
immigration law, pointed to crimes like a wave of kidnappings related to the
drug and human smuggling business in Phoenix, something Ms. Brewer herself noted
when she signed the law.

Although the reports have dipped in the past couple of years, the police
responded to 315 such cases last year.

''That's scary to people, and people react to that all over the state,'' Mr.
Kobach said. ''They are concerned. 'That might happen in my part of the city
eventually.' ''

Terry Goddard, the state attorney general, who does not support the immigration
law, said the drop in violent crime rates might not reflect the continued
violence, often unreported, that is associated with smuggling organizations.

Mr. Goddard said he doubted that the immigration law would put a dent in the
smuggling-related crime that grabs attention in the state. For that reason, Mr.
Goddard, who is running to be the Democratic nominee for governor in the
primary, said he backed the deployment of National Guard troops and supports
increasing manpower and spending on police and prosecutor anti-smuggling units.

Brian L. Livingston, executive director of the Arizona Police Association, said
he would prefer more attention on the border, too. But until then, he said, laws
like Arizona's are necessary.

''We know the majority of people crossing across are not criminal, but
unfortunately some criminal elements are embedded with them,'' he said, adding,
''Governor Brewer gets that.''

As Ms. Brewer put it just after signing the bill: ''We cannot sacrifice our
safety to the murderous greed of drug cartels. We cannot stand idly by as drop
houses, kidnappings and violence compromise our quality of life.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: June 27, 2010



CORRECTION: An article last Sunday about the debate over immigration reform and
how people's perceptions sometimes run counter to crime statistics misstated the
change in property crimes in Arizona between 2000 and 2008. The number of
property crimes went down, not up.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Robert Krentz
 Sheriff's deputies for Maricopa County, Ariz., took people into custody in
March at what they said was a drop house in Phoenix. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROSS D.
FRANKLIN/ASSOCIATED PRESS )

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 22, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The High Cost of Immigrating

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 351 words


When it comes to America's immigration bureaucracy, there is one thing that
newcomers to the United States can count on: the fees have a way of going up.

The Obama administration has announced plans to increase fees for immigration
documents by about 10 percent. The director of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, Alejandro Mayorkas, says he needs to close a $200 million budget gap
for the coming fiscal year. Because his agency is required by Congress to be
almost entirely self-financed, the burden of raising the cash will be placed
where it always is: on immigrant applicants.

Under the proposal, they would have to pay $985 to apply for a green card, up
from $930. The application for employment authorization would rise to $380 from
$340. A separate fee for collecting fingerprints and other biometric data would
increase to $85 from $80.

At least the fee for the final step -- becoming a citizen -- won't go up. It
remains $595. And other fees have actually gone down slightly. That flexibility
is to the agency's credit, given its notorious reputation for presenting
applicants a solid wall of bureaucratic hostility.

Mr. Mayorkas's agency should do more to make it easier for poor immigrants to
have their fees waived. The agency allows waivers but lacks a clear system
through which applicants can seek them. It is working on creating a standardized
waiver application form, so it doesn't have to rely on the ad-hoc decisions of
adjudicators who assess applicants' ability to pay.

Mr. Mayorkas says more people could qualify if the agency tried harder to help
them -- citing its success in helping Haitians apply for temporary protected
status after January's devastating earthquake. We agree.

The country has spent billions on border and workplace enforcement designed to
keep illegal immigrants out. Yet it continues to refuse to finance a better
system for welcoming in legal immigrants.

Immigration has done so much to make the country thrive and prosper, yet the
American people are unwilling to pay for it. Congress should be carrying more of
the weight of financing the system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

A World on the Move

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1658 words


GORDON BROWN'S rant about a ''bigoted'' voter sped his exit from the British
prime minister's post. What punctured his cool? Her complaint about immigrants.
When an earthquake shattered Haiti, Dominicans sent soldiers and Americans sent
ships -- to discourage potential immigrants. The congressman who shouted ''You
lie!'' at President Obama was upset about immigrants. ''Birthers'' think Mr.
Obama is an immigrant.

There was also the Hamas rocket that landed in Israel this spring, killing a
farmworker. Not so unusual, except that the worker was Thai.

Perhaps no force in modern life is as omnipresent yet overlooked as global
migration, that vehicle of creative destruction that is reordering ever more of
the world. Overlooked? A skeptic may well question the statement, given how
often the topic makes news and how divisive the news can be. After all,
Arizona's campaign against illegal immigrants, codified in an April law, set off
high-decibel debates from Melbourne to Madrid. But migration also shapes the
landscape beneath the seemingly unrelated events of the headlines. It is a
story-behind-the-story, a complicating tide, in issues as diverse as school bond
fights and efforts to isolate Iran. (Seeking allies in Latin America this month,
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton had to emphasize the dangers of a
nuclear-armed Tehran while fending off complaints about the Arizona law.)

Even people who study migration for a living struggle to fully grasp its
effects. ''Politically, socially, economically, culturally -- migration bubbles
up everywhere,'' James F. Hollifield, a political scientist at Southern
Methodist University, said. ''We often don't recognize it.''

What prompted Google to close an office in China, rather than accept government
censorship? Many factors, no doubt. But among those cited by Sergey Brin,
Google's co-founder, was the repression his family suffered during his childhood
in the Soviet Union before they immigrated to the United States.

One realm where migration has particularly powerful if largely unstated effects
is school finance. Political scientists have found that white voters are more
likely to oppose spending plans when they perceive the main beneficiaries to be
children of immigrants (especially illegal immigrants). The outcome, of course,
affects all children, immigrant or 10th generation.

''When you get increased diversity, you weaken support for the common good,''
said Dowell Myers, a demographer at the University of Southern California.

Professor Myers studied Proposition 55, a 2004 ballot initiative in California
that sought $12.3 billion in bond sales to relieve overcrowding and upgrade
older schools. Publicly, most opponents framed their concerns in economic terms,
saying the government wasted money and ran unsustainable debts. Still, anger
about illegal immigration was, as one opponent put it, the ''elephant in the
living room.'' School crowding, he wrote in a letter to The Riverside Press
Enterprise, was ''solely caused by America's foolish open-borders policy.''

Holding all else equal (like other political views), Professor Myers found,
voters who saw immigration as a burden were nearly 9 percentage points more
likely to oppose the measure than those who called immigration a benefit.
''That's a big effect -- it was almost enough to take it down,'' he said. The
measure squeaked through, with barely 50 percent of the vote.

Immigration also quickened the bitter split in the American labor movement. In
2005, a half dozen unions left the venerable A.F.L.-C.I.O. to form a rival
federation, Change to Win. (The dissident unions included the Service Employees
International Union and UniteHere.)

On the surface, the fight was mostly about the pace of organizing, with the
breakaway group pledging more aggressive moves to enlist members. But the
dissidents also counted more low-wage immigrants in their membership.

As Daniel B. Cornfield, a labor scholar at Vanderbilt University, said, the
immigrants' marginal (and sometimes illegal) status created a constituency for a
more aggressive approach. ''I don't think it was a split about immigration, but
immigration shaped the split,'' he said.

The split, in turn, has had repercussions beyond the labor movement. Janice
Fine, a political scientist at Rutgers University, noted that the Change to Win
unions played an important (some have argued decisive) role in the early stages
of Mr. Obama's presidential campaign.

''If they were inside the larger bureaucracy, it would have been harder for them
to make an early endorsement and move money his way,'' Professor Fine said.

Theorists sometimes call the movement of people the third wave of globalization,
after the movement of goods (trade) and the movement of money (finance) that
began in the previous century. But trade and finance follow global norms and are
governed by global institutions: the World Trade Organization, the World Bank,
the International Monetary Fund. There is no parallel group with ''migration''
in its name. The most personal and perilous form of movement is the most
unregulated. States make (and often ignore) their own rules, deciding who can
come, how long they stay, and what rights they enjoy.

While global trade and finance are disruptive -- some would argue as much as
migration -- they are disruptive in less visible ways. A shirt made in Mexico
can cost an American worker his job. A worker from Mexico might move next door,
send his children to public school and need to be spoken to in Spanish.

One reason migration seems so potent is that it arose unexpectedly. As recently
as the 1970s, immigration seemed of such little importance that the United
States Census Bureau decided to stop asking people where their parents were
born. Now, a quarter of the residents of the United States under 18 are
immigrants or immigrants' children.

The United Nations estimates that there are 214 million migrants across the
globe, an increase of about 37 percent in two decades. Their ranks grew by 41
percent in Europe and 80 percent in North America. ''There's more mobility at
this moment than at any time in world history,'' said Gary P. Freeman, a
political scientist at the University of Texas.

The most famous source countries in Europe -- Ireland, Italy, Greece, Spain --
are suddenly migrant destinations, with Ireland electing a Nigerian-born man as
its first black mayor in 2007.

As heirs to an immigrant past, Americans may have an edge in a migrants' age. As
contentious as the issue is here, the Americans' capacity to absorb immigrants
remains the envy of many Europeans (including those not inclined to envy
Americans). Still, today's challenges differ from those of the (mythologized)
past. At least five differences set this age apart and amplify migration's
effects.

First is migration's global reach. The movements of the 19th century were mostly
trans-Atlantic. Now, Nepalis staff Korean factories and Mongolians do scut work
in Prague. Persian Gulf economies would collapse without armies of guest
workers. Even within the United States, immigrants are spread across dozens of
''new gateways'' unaccustomed to them, from Orlando to Salt Lake City.

A second distinguishing trait is the money involved, which not only sustains the
families left behind but props up national economies. Migrants sent home $317
billion last year -- three times the world's total foreign aid. In at least
seven countries, remittances account for more than a quarter of the gross
domestic product.

A third factor that increases migration's impact is its feminization: Nearly
half of the world's migrants are now women, and many have left children behind.
Their emergence as breadwinners is altering family dynamics across the
developing world. Migration empowers some, but imperils others, with sex
trafficking now a global concern.

Technology introduces a fourth break from the past: The huddled masses reached
Ellis Island without cellphones or Webcams. Now a nanny in Manhattan can talk to
her child in Zacatecas, vote in Mexican elections and watch Mexican television
shows.

''Transnationalism'' is a comfort but also a concern for those who think it
impedes integration. In the age of global jihad, it may also be a security
threat. The Pakistani immigrant who pleaded guilty last week to the attempted
bombing of Times Square said that jihadi lectures reached him from Yemen, via
the Internet.

At least one other trait amplifies the impact of modern migration: The
expectation that governments will control it. In America for most of the 19th
century, there was no legal barrier to entry. The issue was contentious, but the
government attracted little blame. Now Western governments are expected to keep
trade and tourism flowing and respect ethnic rights while sealing borders as
vast as the Arizona desert and the Mediterranean Sea. Their failures -- glaring
if perhaps inevitable -- weaken the broader faith in federal competence.

''It basically tells people that government cannot do its job,'' said Demetri
Papademetriou, a co-founder of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington
research group. ''It creates the anti-government rhetoric we see, and the anger
people are feeling.''

Still, rich, aging countries need workers. People in poor countries need jobs.
And the rise in global inequality means that migrants have more than ever to
gain by landing work abroad. Migration networks are hard to shut down. Even the
worst economy in 70 years has only slowed, not stopped, the growth in migration.
And it is likely to grow, in numbers and consequence.

When scholars get to feeling expansive, they call today's migration networks a
challenge to the order set by the 1648 Peace of Westphalia, which established
the territorial sovereignty of the nation-state. Judging by the wall rising
along the Mexican border, nation-states do not appear to be going away. Their
people, increasingly, do.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM THERE TO THERE: An estimated 214 million migrants can be
found worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART FRANKLIN/MAGNUM PHOTOS) (WK1)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANNY MOLOSHOK/REUTERS) (WK4) CHARTS: Born Somewhere Else:
Percentage of each country (or territory) that is foreign-born migrants. Many
former Soviet republics have seen a drop in foreign-born residents as scores of
ethnic Russians left over the last two decades. (Source: United Nations) (WK 4)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              June 27, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Soccer Fever in the City's Immigrant Enclaves

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; NEW YORK WORLD GOOOOAL!; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 566 words


On June 11, play began in that international ritual of soccer, barstool debate
and workplace underproductivity known as the World Cup. While much of America
views the event with faint curiosity, its immigrants follow it with microscopic
attention. Below, excerpts of World Cup articles from local ethnic newspapers.
KIRK SEMPLE

Africa, the World Cup

and Heartache

The Odabro Restaurant, at 236 South Essex Street in Orange, N.J., is a watering
hole for Africans. ...

According to the proprietor, Mr. Andrew Onyenwenyi, ''I love the fact that the
World Cup is being played in Africa. But as a businessman, I want to know what
kind of profit is going to be generated for Africa for hosting the World Cup. It
is not just having the fame; it is what do we get in return. As for the African
teams, I am highly disappointed, except, of course, with Ghana.''

In seeking the answer to what the World Cup really meant for Africa and
Africans, it was Mr. Kofi Boateng, the C.O.O. of the World Trade Association,
who provided the answer. ''The 2008 Olympic Games,'' said Mr. Boateng, ''was the
moment for China to make the official announcement that they have arrived on the
world scene, and so it is that the 2010 World Cup is Africa's moment to announce
that we have arrived on the world scene as equal partners.''

CHIKA A.

ONYEANI, June 21

The African Sun Times is a pan-African weekly with a circulation of 45,600, and
is published in East Orange, N.J.

Waiting for Italy

''We believe in them.''

This was the chant at the Van Westerhout  Cittadini Molesi Social Club (447
Court Street in Brooklyn) about the possibility of two World Cup victories by
the Azzurri coached by Lippi. The members of this club, which in October will
celebrate its 50th anniversary, seem united by an unshakeable trust that this
could happen. ...

''To follow the national team together in our circle is a ritual that our
Italianness almost demands of us,'' said the treasurer, Giuseppi De Mattia.
''All the complaints that we have sitting at the bar become irrelevant when we
sit in front of the TV.''...

Maybe the average Italian can transcend a feeling of national identity, said
Allegrino Sale, the president of the Van Westerhout club, but ''for us
emigrants, we are instinctively transported from the moment we are far away. We
are proud of our citizenship, rooted in tradition, and our belief is more
intense.''

GIANLUCA

TARCAMELIA, June 14

America Oggi is an Italian-American daily published in Norwood, N.J. It has a
circulation of 32,000.

Making Profits

Some Mexican vendors in New York are recording an increase in sales now that
many countrymen are acquiring shirts, flags and soccer balls as part of the
celebrations of the highly anticipated inaugural game between Mexico and South
Africa.

Anselmo Canedo, owner of a sports clothing and equipment store in Upper
Manhattan, said his weekly profits were rising 40 percent compared with recent
months now that Mexican fans are so ''excited'' that they ''spare no expense''
in welcoming the World Cup. ...

''My workers and I are happy because we are recovering from a difficult economic
situation. In the winter we sold almost nothing and often thought about closing
the store,'' he said.

ZAIRA CORTES, June 11

El Diario de Mexico, which is based in Murray Hill and publishes five days a
week, has a circulation of 15,000 in the New York area.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

They Pushed Back

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 427 words


A decision by the federal government to grant special visas to about 150 Indian
metalworkers is the most encouraging news yet in a case that has cast a harsh
light on the dark side of legal immigration. The United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services, an arm of the Department of Homeland Security, has
concluded that the workers, part of a group of 500 men recruited to work in Gulf
Coast shipyards after Hurricane Katrina, had been subject to involuntary
servitude and were entitled to visas set aside for victims of human trafficking.

The decision is remarkable because the case -- a federal lawsuit and
investigations by the Departments of Justice and Homeland Security -- involves
accusations that officials with another agency at homeland security, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement, or ICE, helped the company silence workers' complaints.

To be hired in Mississippi and Texas as H-2B guest workers for Signal
International, an oil-rig company, the men went heavily into debt, paying
recruiters for the company from $12,000 to $20,000 each. They figured the
sacrifice was worth it for good jobs and green cards. They got neither. They
were forced to live in isolated labor camps and told they would be fired and
deported if they tried to leave or made trouble.

According to sworn testimony by the company's officers, Signal had a powerful
ally in its bullying. When workers complained about broken promises and abusive
conditions, Signal consulted officials at ICE on how to fire ''chronic whiners''
who were threatening to organize protests. The agency replied, according to the
testimony of one company official: ''Take them all out of the line on the way to
work; get their personal belongings. Get them in a van and get their tickets and
get them to the airport and send them back to India.''

In an internal e-mail message, a Signal official disclosed that ICE had promised
to go after workers who had walked off the job, ''to send a message to the
remaining workers that it is not in their best interests to try and 'push' the
system.'' The workers, with the help of the New Orleans Workers' Center for
Racial Justice, pushed anyway. They took Signal to court with a host of charges.
Now the citizenship agency has accepted the validity of the workers' claims.

The criminal investigation is not yet complete. The workers' advocates argue
that the Department of Justice needs to remove ICE as its designated lead agency
in the Signal investigation. They're right. ICE is too entangled in this debacle
to investigate Signal or itself.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Obama's Immigration Promise

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 593 words


President Obama's first major speech on immigration had the eloquence and
clarity we have come to expect when he engages a wrenching national debate. In
declaring the welcome of strangers a core American value, in placing immigrants
at the center of the nation's success and future, Mr. Obama's exhortation was
worthy of the late Senator Edward Kennedy, whose memory he respectfully summoned
on Thursday. ''Anybody can help us write the next great chapter in our
history,'' he said, regardless of blood or birth.

Mr. Obama was just as clear on why the immigration system is failing and how to
fix it. Our nation ''has the right and obligation to control its borders,'' he
said, but sealing off that vast space with troops and fences alone is a fantasy.
And no amount of security at the border does anything about the undocumented 11
million who have already crossed it. Mr. Obama called for enabling these
potential Americans to ''get right with the law,'' and for fixing the system of
legal immigration, which is too inefficient for the country's own good.

The president took particular notice of the extremism of Arizona, where a law,
to take effect on July 29, compels its police to check the papers of anyone they
suspect to be an illegal immigrant. It makes a crime out of being a foreigner in
the state without papers -- in most cases a civil violation of federal law. This
is an invitation to racial profiling, an impediment to effective policing and a
usurpation of federal authority, Mr. Obama said, evoking a future where
''different rules for immigration will apply in different parts of the
country.''

In promising to end the chaos into which immigration has collapsed (''this
administration will not just kick the can down the road,'' he said), Mr. Obama
has laid out an ambitious goal. He urged Congress to help him pass a bill,
particularly Republicans who supported bipartisan reform under President George
W. Bush but who now have a united front against reform.

But Mr. Obama's call to action applies not just to Congress but to himself as
well. He neatly defined the obstacles to a comprehensive bill: the Republican
senators who have abandoned bipartisanship and taken the extreme position of
opposing any immigration reform that is common-sense and practical.

But Mr. Obama has presidential powers, and he should use them. He has given the
border more troops. Now he should seek to lift the burden of fear from peaceable
immigrant communities. His administration is widely expected to bring a lawsuit
soon challenging the deeply unjust Arizona law. Mr. Obama, a constitutional
scholar, could have written the complaint himself, but his address did not
mention a lawsuit.

Mr. Obama should not suspend all enforcement against illegal immigrants. But he
can reset the administration's enforcement priorities to focus on dangerous and
convicted criminals and rein in the operations that his Department of Homeland
Security has promoted that enable local law enforcement to engage in the racial
profiling he rightly denounces.

Mr. Obama appealed to middle of the debate, to Americans who crave lawfulness
but reject the cruelty symbolized by Arizona's new law. We hope his words spur
the beginning of Congressional action. But in the hot summer to come, when
police officers in Arizona start pulling people over, and tension grows and
other states follow its bad example, let's hope his administration also is ready
to show the determination to protect the resented newcomers whose rights and
dignity he so powerfully defended on Thursday.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

After 5-Year Fight, a Detained Immigrant Is Freed

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 664 words


Only last week, Carlyle Leslie Owen Dale, a legal permanent resident from
Jamaica who had worked in New York for three decades, seemed at risk of dying in
an immigration jail in Louisiana while his court appeals against an order of
deportation languished.

But on Friday, for the first time in five years, Mr. Dale, 61, woke up listening
for the voices of his grandchildren instead of to orders shouted inside the
federal detention center.

''I want to tell you how good it feels to be back in my America -- the America
that I love and that loves me,'' he said Friday in a telephone interview from
the home of his son, Dwight, in Orlando, Fla., as the laughter of his
grandchildren, 2 and 11, rang in the background.

It was an abrupt change of fortune for Mr. Dale, whose ill health from diabetes,
asthma, liver disease and high blood pressure had deteriorated drastically at
the Oakdale Federal Detention Center, leading to five hospitalizations in 20
months.

On June 24, even as his advocates at the National Immigrant Justice Center
petitioned the United Nations to intervene in his case, a federal appeals court
overruled Mr. Dale's deportation order.

The court found that the Board of Immigration Appeals had been wrong to conclude
that a conviction in 2000 for attempted assault made him deportable as an
''aggravated felon,'' and sent the matter back to the board for a new decision.

The government has been trying to deport Mr. Dale since 2005, based on his
guilty plea to attempted aggravated assault in a 1998 shooting at a halfway
house that he operated in Uniondale for recovering substance abusers. Mr. Dale,
who had never been in trouble with the law, served three and a half years and
paid more than $9,000 in restitution to a resident whom he shot with an
unregistered gun during a confrontation in which he said the resident went after
him with a knife.

Until the shooting, Mr. Dale's life had followed an upward trajectory built on
work and family. He held jobs at Kennedy International Airport and at an ad
agency in Oceanside, N.Y., then established his ill-fated halfway house
business, the Safe Housing Project Inc.

Immigration officials had refused numerous requests to release Mr. Dale while
his appeals were pending. And even after last week's ruling, by the United
States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, they maintained at first that Mr.
Dale was still subject to mandatory detention.

But on Wednesday, in a settlement with his justice center lawyers, who withdrew
a pending habeas corpus petition in his case, federal officials freed him on his
own recognizance and let him board a Greyhound bus to Orlando.

Claudia Valenzuela, the justice center lawyer who represented Mr. Dale in his
detention case, said the case highlighted the arbitrariness of the detention
system.

''The government detains individuals on a massive scale without really
evaluating whether that person merits detention,'' she said. ''It serves to
create a system in which individuals who should never be detained in the first
place, much less for years on end, find themselves deprived of their liberty, of
everyday contact with family and friends, and of even basic medical services
without justification.''

Mr. Dale arrived at his son's home on Thursday night, tired from his long bus
journey, he said, but overjoyed.

''My 2-year-old, she's all over me,'' he said of his granddaughter, born while
he was in detention. ''My health is not as bad because my spirits are so high.''

Still, he said, ''I've been thinking about a lot of people I left there, people
who have been going through so much hardship, and they're still going through
that.''

While his case is pending, he said he did not want to talk about what he called
''the other America.'' But he added, ''it's good to be spending the Fourth of
July in the America that I love and the America that the world loves.''

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlyle Dale with his granddaughters, Jaida, 2, and Deanna, 11,
at the home of his son, Dwight Dale, in Orlando, Fla., on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
TODD ANDERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Under Order, Informant In Terror Plot Leaves U.S.

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 585 words


They were among the last words he will perhaps ever utter in this country.
Expressed, said his lawyer, without irony or bitterness. ''God bless America.''

With those few syllables, Ahmad Wais Afzali, dressed in a flowing white robe
with black and beige trim, entered the security line at Kennedy International
Airport with his wife, Fatima, on Monday morning. In their hands: one-way
tickets out of the country where they had grown up and made a life.

Tailed by two casually dressed agents with Immigration and Customs Enforcement,
Mr. Afzali and his wife boarded a 2 p.m. flight for Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

For Mr. Afzali, they were his final footsteps in the United States, if the
authorities have their way.Mr. Afzali, an imam and Afghan immigrant who grew up
in Queens, was ordered to leave the country after he warned Najibullah Zazi, the
admitted mastermind in a plot to set off bombs in the New York subway, that he
was under government surveillance. Mr. Afzali pleaded guilty to lying to federal
investigators about the conversation.

Authorities described the plot as the most significant threat to national
security since 9/11. But Mr. Afzali was never among the plotters. He became
entangled in the plot when investigators with the New York City Police
Department, which Mr. Afzali had helped occasionally as an informant since 9/11,
contacted him seeking information about the three suspects.

Without explaining their interest in the men, the investigators asked him to
find out more about what they were doing in New York. Not realizing the gravity
of the case, he would later tell a judge, he told Mr. Zazi that the authorities
were interested in him, while also urging him to stay out of trouble.

He later told a judge he was afraid when Federal Bureau of Investigation agents
interrogated him two days later, so he lied about the conversation with Mr.
Zazi.

At his sentencing in April, even prosecutors conceded that Mr. Afzali was
''almost certainly'' unaware of the seriousness of his actions. A federal judge
spared him jail time but ordered him to leave the country within 90 days or be
deported.  He had until July 14 to comply, his lawyer, Ronald L. Kuby, said.

On Monday morning, Mr. Kuby and an associate arrived at Mr. Afzali's home in
Queens. About a dozen family members had gathered to say goodbye. With the
court's permission, Mr. Kuby snipped the electronic monitor from Mr. Afzali's
ankle, which he had worn since his arrest in September.

''It was the first of a number of emotional moments for him,'' Mr. Kuby said,
''because it was a tremendous sense of liberation, not so much physically, he
said, but spiritually.''

After considering many places they might move to, and worrying about which
places might be safe, Mr. Afzali and his wife decided on Saudi Arabia, where she
has a teaching job waiting for her. Mr. Afzali doesn't know what he'll do yet,
Mr. Kuby said. ''They're a family of entrepreneurs,'' he said. ''Maybe he'll
open an Afghan restaurant in Riyadh.'' His two pre-teenage children will stay in
Virginia with his first wife but plan to visit often, Mr. Kuby said.

Mr. Afzali's younger brother drove him to the airport, followed by the ICE
agents in a second car and Mr. Kuby and his associate in a third vehicle. Mr.
Afzali's wife followed in a fourth vehicle with her family members and piles of
luggage, a mini-caravan leading to the end of Mr. Afzali's American journey.

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ahmad Wais Afzali (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARY HOROWITZ/REUTERS)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

California: Murder Rate a Factor In Asylum Ruling

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING WEST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 94 words


A ruling Monday by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
created the possibility that women from Guatemala could get political asylum
because of the high  murder rate for women there. The court issued a ruling
reversing deportation orders of two immigration courts that such a claim applies
too broadly. It ordered the immigration judges to reconsider granting asylum to
Lesly Yajayra Perdomo, an illegal immigrant in Reno, Nev. Most important, the
court ordered the Board of Immigration to determine whether all Guatemalan women
could qualify.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 18, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Jobs for the Picking

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 301 words


The United Farm Workers union has issued a call to unemployed American citizens:

''Job may include using hand tools such as knives, hoes, shovels, etc. Duties
may include tilling the soil, transplanting, weeding, thinning, picking,
cutting, sorting & packing of harvested produce. May set up & operate irrigation
equip. Work is performed outside in all weather conditions (Summertime 90+
degree weather) & is physically demanding requiring workers to bend, stoop, lift
& carry up to 50 lbs on a regular basis.''

It is safe to conclude that few if any Americans will take up the offer, no
matter how hungry they are. The campaign is a sly attempt to draw attention to
the push for immigration reform, particularly an effort to legalize undocumented
farm workers. With anti-immigrant resentment running hot, many accuse immigrants
of stealing American jobs. The union replies: How can immigrants steal jobs
nobody else wants?

There are, of course, industries besides agriculture in which immigrant labor
dominates, and it is fair to note that more Americans would take dirty,
difficult jobs if they offered better pay and benefits. Still, it is hard to
imagine the native-born work force itching to return en masse to housekeeping,
landscaping, car washing, meatpacking, poultry plucking and street-corner day
labor.

The answer is not to eradicate immigrants so American sons and daughters can
have the low-wage economy all to themselves. It is to have those jobs filled by
a legal immigrant work force, and to raise the floor on wages and working
conditions so no American industry gets to run on cheap, exploited labor. That
is the reform that President Obama and some members of Congress have been
pushing for, against the objections of those who would rather complain about
immigrant workers than fix the system.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Despite Ruling, Many School Districts Ask for Immigration Papers

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1534 words


Three decades after the Supreme Court ruled that immigration violations cannot
be used as a basis to deny children equal access to a public school education,
one in five school districts in New York State is routinely requiring a child's
immigration papers as a prerequisite to enrollment, or asking parents for
information that only lawful immigrants can provide.

The New York Civil Liberties Union, which culled a list of 139 such districts
from hundreds of registration forms and instructions posted online, has not
found any children turned away for lack of immigration paperwork. But it warned
in a letter to the state's education commissioner on Wednesday that the
requirements listed by many registrars, however free of discriminatory intent,
''will inevitably discourage families from enrolling in school for fear that
they would be reported to federal immigration authorities.''

For months, the group has been pushing the State Education Department to stop
the practices, which range from what the advocates consider unintentional
barriers, like requiring a Social Security number, to those the letter called
''blatantly discriminatory,'' like one demanding that noncitizen children show a
''resident alien card,'' with the warning that ''if the card is expired, it will
not be accepted.''

But the Education Department has resisted doing anything to address the issue
directly, in contrast with several other states -- including Maryland, Nebraska
and New Jersey -- where education officials have taken strong steps in recent
years to halt similar practices.

''It is the responsibility of each local school district to ensure that it
complies with all laws and decisions regarding student registration,'' Jonathan
Burman, a spokesman for the department, said in a brief e-mail message in
response to a reporter's inquiries. ''Under New York's education law, anyone who
is aggrieved by an action or decision of a district that allegedly violates the
law may appeal to the commissioner for a review of that action or decision.''

Udi Ofer, director of advocacy for the civil liberties union, said his group was
astonished by the department's unwillingness to alert and guide the school
districts, most of which he described as probably ''clueless'' rather than
malicious in asking for immigration documents. It is irresponsible, he added,
for officials to wait for affected families to complain. ''We're dealing here
with an undocumented community that is afraid of coming out of the shadows,'' he
said.

The state's education law, which mandates a free public education for all
residents ages 5 to 21 who have no high school diploma, allows districts to
require documents that prove age and residency, like birth certificates, rental
agreements and utility bills. But it is silent on any additional requirements
that would violate the 1982 Supreme Court decision, Plyler v. Doe.

That ruling, considered by legal scholars to be a high-water mark of immigrant
rights, held that under the Constitution, all children who live in a district
must be given equal access to a public education from kindergarten through 12th
grade, regardless of whether they entered or stayed in the country in violation
of federal immigration rules.

To refuse them, Justice Harry A. Blackmun warned in his concurring opinion,
''raises the specter of a permanent caste of undocumented resident aliens,
encouraged by some to remain here as a source of cheap labor,'' yet denied the
basic benefits available to others.

The civil liberties union said it mailed letters on Wednesday to all the
districts it had flagged, advising them that their policies and practices
''discriminate against undocumented children and are unconstitutional.'' The
letters asked that they rescind problematic requirements and ''inform students
who may have been denied enrollment.''

In several of the districts, which are scattered from Westchester County to
rural Chenango County, officials who learned about the issue from a reporter's
call seemed surprised and concerned that immigration-related documents were
demanded in their online registration packets. Some forms, they said, had been
copied from another district's Web site; others, like one in the Rhinebeck
Central School District, had not been changed in decades, even as a climate of
immigration enforcement changed the context.

Among a half-dozen districts contacted, registration personnel in all but one --
the Williamsville Central School District, outside Buffalo -- said that no child
had been rejected for lack of immigration paperwork or a Social Security number.
Some districts immediately changed language they identified as troublesome.

The Williamsville district demands that noncitizen children supply a visa and
uses the jargon of federal immigration classification to describe examples: ''J1
or F1, etc.''

''I'm told what visas we can accept,'' said Paula Colburn, its part-time
registrar for the last two years. Asked if any children had been rejected
because they did not have the right visa, Ms. Colburn said: ''Oh, yeah. There
are certain visas that we accept. Other than that, if it's not a right visa
....'' She broke off and referred the call to district officials.

The Williamsville superintendent, Howard S. Smith, said, ''We have not turned
students away specifically because of a single entrance criteria,'' and called
the civil liberties union's objections ''ridiculous.''

''The visa is only one piece of information that we may or may not look at in
determining whether they're a resident of the school district,'' he added,
saying that it could indicate an intent to remain. ''We are fully in compliance
with any state and federal requirements.''

In the Spencerport Central School District, near Rochester, cited by the
advocates for glaringly discriminatory requirements, calls for comment were not
returned.

More typical, however, was the response by the Fairport Central School District,
also near Rochester, where officials quickly dropped a requirement for a visa or
green card, and changed questions about citizenship to ones seeking verification
of a child's birth date.

''At no time ever in this district have we excluded a student based on their
citizenship or immigration status,'' said Barbara Gregory, the assistant
superintendent. ''It was certainly a good thing for us to review, because we
want to be very inclusive. We have a significant number of English-language
learners, and they enrich our population.''

The registrar in another district, the Springville-Griffith Institute Central
School District near Buffalo, said its online registration packet had been
copied from Fairport's and would be reviewed. A similar review was promised by
Joseph Phelan, superintendent of the Rhinebeck district. And William Stavisky,
superintendent of the Perry Central School District, said he directed in April
that online demands for a green card be dropped, after a local immigrant group
alerted him to the civil liberties union's concerns.

All the superintendents said they were used to complying with instructions from
the State Education Department and had heard nothing from the department on the
issue.

Civil liberties union officials began writing to the department last September,
after they were alerted by a United States citizen of Hispanic descent that a
school near Rochester was asking about immigration status during registration.
The advocates did a cursory Internet search and found five districts making
similar demands, including the City School District of Albany.

''We were shocked,'' Mr. Ofer said, adding that four of the five districts had
readily changed their requirements when contacted. Last week, the Web site of
the fifth, the Rush-Henrietta Central School District, still stated: ''If not
born in this country, please provide immigration paperwork.''

Unable to persuade the Education Department to check the registration
requirements of all 695 districts, the advocates did the research themselves.

A similar survey, released in 2008 by the American Civil Liberties Union of New
Jersey, found that 20 percent of that state's public school districts were
asking for information that would reveal the immigration status of a parent or
child. The New Jersey Department of Education responded forcefully, threatening
to cut state aid to districts that persisted.

In contrast, state education officials in New York tucked a line into a December
newsletter reminding districts to check that registration requirements complied
with state laws, with no mention of immigrants. In April, the department's legal
counsel wrote the advocates that ''no further action'' would be taken.

The department itself may have been the source of demands for a Social Security
number. In the rural Oxford Academy and Central Schools District in Chenango
County, founded in 1794, the superintendent said the only reason it began asking
for the numbers was ''because the S.E.D. is asking for that information when
they get older.''

The superintendent, Randall Squier, said the Oxford area lacked immigrants as
well as jobs. ''Our enrollment is declining so fast, we would welcome them to
our district,'' he added. ''We don't need their Social Security number to
educate them.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The State Education Department in Albany. The Constitution
guarantees a public education even to children here illegally. (PHOTOGRAPH BY
NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 23, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

U.S. Pledges To Speed Up Visa Process For Artists

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 609 words


Addressing years of complaints about slow and inconsistent processing of visa
applications for foreign performing artists, the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services told arts groups this week that it was making an effort to
speed up and improve its visa operations.

In a meeting on Tuesday in Washington, at the headquarters of the agency -- a
division of the Department of Homeland Security -- officials said that standard
applications for O and P visas, the types most often used by performers and
athletes, would be adjudicated within 14 days. In some cases it has taken up to
120 days, arts groups say, with delays and demands for information that can seem
arbitrary.

''What this means is that we are establishing for ourselves and our customers a
standard by which our success and failure is to be measured,'' Alejandro
Mayorkas, the director of the agency, said in a telephone interview on Thursday.
(He was not at the meeting on Tuesday.) ''One thing is to deliver the
adjudications in rapid time because of the needs of the community, and another
is to ensure that we achieve fair and just adjudications.''

Artist advocates greeted the news as a positive but incomplete step toward
fairness and efficiency in the visa system, which they say has become cumbersome
and expensive to navigate, and has sometimes resulted in last-minute changes and
cancellations.

''This to us represents a real breakthrough,'' said Heather Noonan, vice
president for advocacy at the League of American Orchestras. ''We are extremely
hopeful that the changes that they have planned will result in improvements for
international cultural exchange.''

Managers, lawyers and other arts advocates say the problems began in mid-2001,
when the government instituted premium visa processing, guaranteeing quick
service at a higher fee. After that change, and with the security concerns in
the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, standard service seemed to lag, and
puzzling variations in policy enforcement introduced a level of unpredictability
that could wreak havoc with touring schedules.

For example, earlier this year the agency held up three applications for
visiting musicians with the Chicago Opera Theater, requesting an unusual amount
of evidence to corroborate the visa requirement that the artists have achieved
sufficient renown. The company eventually went over its budget to hire an
immigration lawyer, who got two of the musicians into the country at the 11th
hour; the third had to be replaced, said Roger Weitz, the company's general
manager.

Many arts groups say that under Mr. Mayorkas, a Cuban immigrant who was sworn in
last August, their sometimes frosty relationship with Citizenship and
Immigration Services has begun to thaw. Agency officials met with arts groups in
April, and have recently begun soliciting comments about egregious experiences
with the visa process.

Although the agency's policies have not changed, some have been clarified for
the benefit of visa applicants, and Mr. Mayorkas insisted that the commitment is
genuine.

''When I make a commitment,'' he said, ''it is a benchmark that I am setting for
our agency upon which the public should be able to rely.''

Artist representatives say that more work needs to be done to streamline the
process. ''This is a great start but not where we would like to see things end
up,'' said Tom Windish, a booking agent for independent rock bands.

And for fans, the bad news about cancellations is not likely to end anytime
soon. On Thursday, for example, the reunited British ska band the Specials
canceled its appearance next month at Central Park SummerStage. The reason:
''visa issues.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alejandro Mayorkas, the director of Citizenship and Immigration
Services, in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HARRY HAMBURG/ASSOCIATED PRESS)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mad Men City: The Stories Behind the Stories: To Be an Opera Extra

BYLINE: By EMILY S. RUEB

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 490 words


Three decades after the Supreme Court ruled that immigration violations cannot
be used as a basis to deny children equal access to a public school education,
one in five school districts in New York State is routinely requiring a child's
immigration papers as a prerequisite to enrollment, or asking parents for
information that only lawful immigrants can provide.

The New York Civil Liberties Union, which culled a list of 139 such districts
from hundreds of registration forms and instructions posted online, has not
found any children turned away for lack of immigration paperwork. But it warned
in a letter to the state's education commissioner on Wednesday that the
requirements listed by many registrars, however free of discriminatory intent,
''will inevitably discourage families from enrolling in school for fear that
they would be reported to federal immigration authorities.'' [NYT]

Government & Politics

A House investigative panel has found ''substantial reason to believe'' that
Representative Charles B. Rangel violated a range of ethics rules. The details
of the violations have not been disclosed, but the finding means that Mr.
Rangel, a Harlem Democrat, must face a public trial before the House ethics
committee. [NYT] (Also see the Daily News and The New York Post.)

Gov. David A. Paterson may curtail summer vacation for state legislators by
ordering them back to Albany as early as next week to complete work on the
budget. [Daily News]

Crime & Public Safety

The Bronx district attorney's office expects to meet soon with Sherr-una Booker,
who says she was the victim of a domestic assault last October by a top aide to
Governor Paterson, a meeting that could be a prelude to a formal investigation.
[NYT]

The authorities investigating a fire on Staten Island found evidence that a boy,
14, slashed his two sisters, started the fire and then cut his own throat. [NYT]
(See also The Daily News and The New York Post.)

A rigging contractor was acquitted on Thursday of all charges in connection with
the collapse of a giant crane in Manhattan two years ago that killed seven
people and revealed shoddy and illegal inspection practices in the city's
Department of Buildings. [NYT]

Housing & Economy

New York City is gradually recovering from a deep but surprisingly short
recession that ended in November, but its manufacturing industries are still not
adding jobs. [NYT]

Transportation

Construction on the long-delayed Midtown West train station to be named after
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan will begin in October, the state said Thursday.
[NY Post]

People & Neighborhoods

There are many ways to measure the cumulative, quantifiable effects of 90-degree
day after 90-degree day in New York. [NYT]

The board of a Roman Catholic Church on Staten Island voted not to sell a vacant
convent to a Muslim organization that planned to use it as a mosque. [NYT]

This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in
print.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                              July 25, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Rap

BYLINE: Interview by DEBORAH SOLOMON

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; QUESTIONS FOR VICENTE FOX; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 666 words


You're the former president of Mexico. What do you think of the Arizona
immigration bill that is scheduled to take effect this week? It would require
immigrants to carry their registration papers at all times and risk jail for not
complying. I think there's a big misunderstanding on the value of migrants.
Unfortunately, since Sept. 11, that very sad day, we have not advanced on the
issue. On the contrary, xenophobes have taken over; governments like the one in
Arizona are taking negative decisions with a very blinded look at the future.

Are you saying America has become less tolerant? Yes, yes. And maybe the best
way to qualify it is ''fear.'' That fear has been promoted by those who want to
go back to the past, to nationalistic attitudes, to building walls and isolating
themselves from the rest of the world.

What do you think the U.S. should do about the estimated 11 million immigrants
who live here illegally, about 59 percent of whom are Mexican, according to a
report from the Pew Hispanic Center? Document them! As long as they are working,
they should be legalized. I admire so much each and every migrant. They are the
most loyal workers in the U.S. economy. They build the homes of those who are
attacking them.

What do you make of John McCain, who, in 2005, helped craft a bipartisan
immigration reform bill, but has lately been feeding anti-immigration sentiment.
He just said on television that Phoenix is ''the No. 2 kidnapping capital of the
world,'' a fact that various groups have disputed. Yes. It's a total shame, the
new position that he's holding. When he campaigned for president, he tried to
gain votes from Hispanics by positioning himself very positively around
migration. I don't understand his position today. It's very selfish. It's
incredible that a politician of his stature, of his matureness and age, can be
such a traitor to his own ideas.

I'm sure you're aware that the U.S. Department of Justice has sued the state of
Arizona to overturn its immigration law, which may well be invalidated by the
time this interview appears. That's a good intent. President Obama is committed
to Hispanics and migrants. That's a promise I had from President Bush, and six
years went by and nothing happened. I don't want to be negative, but I'm seeing
the same story repeating again. It's been two years now, and nothing has
happened in relation to migration.

What do you think Mexicans have contributed to American culture? Oh, starting
with Mexican food! The jalapenos and the tacos and the rest. I think they have
contributed family values. And then we have our culture. When you were killing
Indian Apaches there, we had built Mayan cities, the pyramids, Mexico City.

Is there anything to be done about the drug wars that are terrorizing Mexicans
today and that have reportedly caused 25,000 deaths in the past three years?
That has to be dealt with together by the United States and Mexico. It's a joint
problem and a joint challenge. The U.S. provides the markets and guns that come
back to Mexico and allow the cartels to be active.

You think the United States is causing Mexico's crime wave? Absolutely, yes. The
cartel gangs are nourished through the drug consumption in the United States.
That's why my position is that we should move as fast as possible into
legalizing drug consumption.

What are you working on these days? I am at the ranch, and we built here in
Guanajuato the first presidential library in Mexico. It's built at the old dairy
cow stable with modern facilities, and we're doing think-tanking actions. Let me
give you news. We're going to have Elton John in October.

What for? To sing, to fund raise for scholarships! We know that for building
leadership, there is nothing better than that part of our brain dedicated to
art, to culture.

How do you get along with your successor, President Felipe Calderon? Muy bien.
We have lunch every other month.

Do you give him advice? No, no advice. I just express my opinion.

INTERVIEW HAS BEEN CONDENSED AND EDITED.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIVIA CORONA)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             July 31, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Detention and the Disabled

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 406 words


The Department of Homeland Security has been working to clean up the
immigration-justice system it inherited from the Bush administration, a
sprawling detention-and-deportation operation plagued by overcrowding,
mistreatment and shocking medical neglect. Ongoing scrutiny from legal experts
and human-rights advocates shows how much work remains.

A new report from Human Rights Watch and the American Civil Liberties Union lays
out in unsettling detail the burdens faced by a particularly vulnerable group:
immigrants with mental disabilities.

The immigration-justice system is notoriously unjust and difficult to navigate.
Noncitizens have no right to an appointed lawyer, for example, and most end up
fending for themselves in immigration court.

For the mentally ill or disabled, often unable to understand the charges and
punishment they face, the experience is even worse, with prolonged detentions
and removal without a fair hearing -- ''deportation by default,'' in the
report's words -- all too common. Defendants who cannot represent themselves in
court -- and cannot afford a lawyer or find a family member -- end up being
represented by an official of Immigration and Customs Enforcement acting as a
''custodian.'' Some defendants, unsurprisingly, end up in limbo, detained but
not deported while awaiting a hearing that may not happen.

Sometimes the system snares American citizens, the report says. It cites the
case of Pedro Guzman, a mentally disabled California man who was picked up by
ICE and mistakenly deported to Mexico, where he wandered three months before
being returned to his family.

There is no official count of how many mentally disabled people go through
immigration courts or detention, though the report extrapolates from statistics
to estimate the number at roughly 57,000 in 2008.

The report makes solid recommendations for reform, urging the government to
exempt the mentally disabled from mandatory detention, to train judges to
recognize people with mental disabilities and oblige them to safeguard their
rights. It seeks an end to the rule allowing ICE custodians to represent the
mentally incompetent and urges ICE to consider alternatives to detention, like
supervised release with families and community treatment programs.

Noncitizens must overcome a high bar to prove their right to stay in the United
States. But all deserve a fair hearing, particularly those least able to make
the case for themselves.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Border Bill Aims at Indian Companies

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 496 words


PHOENIX -- Indian high-tech workers do not typically sneak into the United
States through Mexico, but beefing up the Southwest border may still make it
tougher for them to migrate here.

A Senate bill approved Thursday night by unanimous consent would pay for more
security along the Mexico border by raising fees for companies from India that
operate in the United States and hire so many Indian workers that they have been
criticized for violating the spirit of American immigration law.

The $600 million spending bill would send 1,500 more Border Patrol agents,
customs inspectors and other law enforcement officials to the Southwest border,
finance additional aerial drones to monitor remote desert regions and build two
operating bases close to the border to help reduce illegal immigration and drug
smuggling.

''It's just a great package,'' Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland
security, said in a conference call with reporters on Friday. She contends that
the Obama administration has made the border more secure than ever but
nonetheless hears the frustration of many local politicians, especially those in
her home state, Arizona, who say that immigration is out of control.

Republicans had proposed paying for the beefed-up security by tapping into
stimulus money. But Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said his
staff had come up with an alternative that would not hurt American workers:
raising the visa application fees paid by any companies with more than 50 people
in which more than half the work force has H-1B or L visas that are intended for
skilled foreign workers.

Senate aides said four Indian companies would qualify for the significantly
higher fees: Tata, Infosys, Wipro and Mahindra Satyam, all of which operate in
the United States and are criticized as ''body shops'' because they provide
outsourcing of Indian professionals to American companies. Large American
high-tech corporations, which bring the bulk of the skilled immigrants into the
United States, would not be affected since the vast majority of their work
forces are made up of Americans.

India's high-tech industry reacted angrily to the proposal, with the New
Delhi-based National Association of Software and Services Companies issuing a
statement saying that raising the visa fees by more than $2,000 per application
would violate international trade practices and unfairly focus on Indian
companies. And Peter McLaughlin, an Infosys spokesman, said, ''It is unfortunate
that this tax is being levied on a discriminatory basis when the need is to open
markets to make companies more competitive in the global marketplace.''

But senators complained that the companies could remedy the situation by hiring
more Americans. ''I'm thrilled that these companies are complaining about having
to hire more Americans,'' said Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri.
''That is the whipped cream and cherry on top of this sundae.''

The House may take up the bill next week.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 7, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Citizenship As Birthright Is Challenged On the Right

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 839 words


At a breakfast on Thursday in Washington, Senator Mitch McConnell, the Senate
minority leader, tried to tamp down a controversy that started when Senator
Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, questioned the 14th Amendment to
the Constitution, which grants the right to citizenship to anyone born in the
United States.

''I am not aware of anybody who has come out in favor of altering the 14th
Amendment,'' Mr. McConnell said.

But Mr. Graham, speaking on Fox News last week, said it was ''a mistake'' to
allow American-born children of illegal immigrants to become citizens
automatically, a practice known as birthright citizenship. He said that along
with a plan to grant legal status to millions of illegal immigrants, he would
also amend the 14th Amendment as a way of discouraging future unauthorized
immigration.

Throughout the week Mr. Graham stood firm on his proposal. ''We can't just have
people swimming across the river having children here -- that's chaos,'' he said
Wednesday in another interview with Fox News.

The proposal caught Republican and Democratic lawmakers by surprise, not least
because it came from Mr. Graham, who earlier this year was the leading -- and
almost the only -- Republican negotiating with Democrats to create an
immigration overhaul bill. Mr. Graham gave new prominence to an issue that has
long been a favorite of conservatives advocating reduced immigration, but has
been peripheral to the immigration debate in Congress.

Mr. McConnell said Republicans were calling only for hearings on the issue. The
debate centers on the first sentence of what is known as the citizenship clause:
''All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the
jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the state wherein
they reside.'' The amendment was adopted in 1868 to ensure the citizenship of
the American-born children of freed slaves.

Opponents of birthright citizenship contend that illegal immigrants are not
under United States jurisdiction, therefore their American-born children should
not automatically be citizens. They say the amendment could not apply to those
immigrants because there was no illegal immigration when it was adopted.

''If you are an illegal immigrant, we clearly have not given you permission to
reside here,'' said Rosemary Jenks, director of government relations for
NumbersUSA, a group that favors decreased immigration. ''You are still subject
to the jurisdiction of your own country.''

But giving citizenship to everyone born in the United States has been the
practice since the 1860s, and was upheld by the Supreme Court on the few
occasions when it was tested there, immigration lawyers said. A change to the
law to disallow the children of illegal immigrants would vastly increase the
undocumented population, lawyers said, rather than reducing it. Babies born to
Mexican mothers here illegally, for example, would become illegal Mexican
immigrants from the moment of birth.

''You would be perpetuating a large undocumented population, with all these
children growing up very much living in the shadows,'' said Hiroshi Motomura, an
immigration law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.

Mr. Graham's proposal revived a popular misunderstanding: In the often heated
debate over birthright citizenship, pundits refer to the problem of ''anchor
babies,'' and talk show callers express frustration that pregnant women could
cross the border from Mexico illegally, then rely on their American citizen
newborns to put them immediately on a path to citizenship.

In fact, under immigration law American citizen children must wait until they
are 21 years old to apply for legal residency for their parents. Also, most of
the illegal immigrants who have children who are American citizens have not
recently arrived.

About four million American citizen children have at least one parent who is an
illegal immigrant, according to a study last year by the Pew Hispanic Center, a
nonpartisan research group in Washington. They usually live in families that
have been in the United States for a number of years and very often include both
illegal immigrants and American citizens, the study found.

Altering the Constitution -- especially an amendment that is dear to black
Americans -- is such a huge political proposition that few lawmakers thought Mr.
Graham's comments would lead to any action before November's midterm elections.

But the episode was a sign of the pressures on Republicans over immigration,
after a tough law they passed in Arizona put the party squarely on the side of
cracking down on illegal immigrants. Mr. Graham's move helped to shore up his
credentials with some conservatives.

But some Republicans worried that the issue could backfire. ''This type of
position may help you win a few elections,'' said Alfonso Aguilar, executive
director of the Latino Partnership for Conservative Principles, a group that
tries to draw Latinos to the Republican Party. ''But you are damaging relations
with the Latino community.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Lindsey Graham proposes altering an amendment.
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A10)

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Finding a New Life in America No Longer Means a New Name

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS.

Sam Roberts's grandfather arrived in the United States as Samuel Rabinowitz. His
family first changed the name to Rubin, then to Roberts.

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1229 words


For many 19th- and 20th-century immigrants or their children, it was a rite of
passage: Arriving in America, they adopted a new identity.

Charles Steinweg, the German-born piano maker, changed his name to Steinway (in
part because English instruments were deemed to be superior). Tom Lee, a Tong
leader who would become the unofficial mayor of Chinatown in Manhattan, was
originally Wong Ah Ling. Anne Bancroft, who was born in the Bronx, was Anna
Maria Louisa Italiano.

The rationale was straightforward: adopting names that sounded more American
might help immigrants speed assimilation, avoid detection, deter discrimination
or just be better for the businesses they hoped to start in their new homeland.

Today, most experts agree, that traditional immigrant gambit has all but
disappeared.

''For the most part, nobody changes to American names any more at all,'' said
Cheryl R. David, former chairwoman of the New York chapter of the American
Immigration Lawyers Association.

Precise comparative statistics are hard to come by, and experts say there was
most likely no one precise moment when the practice fell off. It began to
decline within the last few decades, they say, and the evidence of its rarity,
if not formally quantified, can be found in almost any American courthouse.

The New York Times examined the more than 500 applications for name changes in
June at the Civil Court in New York, which has a greater foreign-born population
than any other city in the United States. Only a half dozen or so of those
applications appeared to be obviously intended to Anglicize or abbreviate the
surnames that immigrants or their families arrived with from Latin America or
Asia. (A few Russians and Eastern Europeans did, but about as many embraced
their family's original surnames as adopted new ones.)

The vast majority of people with clearly ethnic surnames who applied to change
them did so as a result of marriage (belatedly adopting a spouse's surname or
creating a new hyphenated one) or childbirth (because they were legally
identified when they were born only as a male or female child or were adopting a
parent's name).

Iyata Ishimabet Maini Valdene Archibald of Brooklyn changed her name to
Ishimabet Makini Valdene Bryce. Guo Wi Chan of Forest Hills, Queens, changed his
to Ryan Guowei Chan. And after Jing Qiu Wu, the Flushing, Queens, mother of
5-year-old Star Jing Garcia, divorced, she renamed her daughter Star Rain Wu,
dropping her husband's surname.

Several dropped Mohammed as a first name, adopting Najmul or Hayat instead. And
one older couple changed their last name from Islam to Khan, but they said they
were conforming to other younger family members rather than reacting to
discrimination.

Sociologists say the United States is simply a more multicultural country today
(think the Kardashian sisters or Renee Zellweger, for instance, who decades ago
might have been encouraged to Anglicize their names), and they add that blending
in by changing a name is not as effective for Asians and Latin Americans who,
arguably, may be more easily identified by physical characteristics than some
Europeans were in the 19th century and early 20th century.

Also, at least in certain circumstances, affirmative action and similar programs
have transformed ethnic identity into a potential asset.

''If you are talking about 1910, the social forces on conformity were much
stronger,'' said Marian Smith, senior historian of the United States Bureau of
Citizenship and Immigration Services, ''whereas now an immigrant arrives with
all these legal and identity documents, a driver's license in their pocket, a
passport, with one name on it. To change this is a big deal.''

Douglas S. Massey, a Princeton University sociologist, suggested that newcomers
from overseas and their children no longer felt pressure to change their
surnames beginning ''during the 1970s and 1980s, as immigration became more a
part of American life and the civil rights movement legitimated in-group pride
as something to be cultivated.''

You can apply to the State Supreme Court to change your name (for $210) or to
Civil Court (for $65) as long as you swear that you are not wanted for a crime
and are not doing so to defraud anyone. Immigrants can simply check a box on
their applications for naturalization. (The government said that in 2005 fewer
than one in six did so, and for every possible reason.)

A century or so ago, some names were simplified by shipping agents as immigrants
boarded ships in Europe. Others were transliterated, but rarely changed, by
immigration officials at Ellis Island. Many newcomers changed their names
legally, from Sapusnick to Phillips (''difficulty in pronouncing name,
interferes with their business,'' according to a legal notice), Laskowsky to
Lake (''former name not American'') and from Katchka to Kalin (Katchka means
duck in Yiddish and a particular Mr. Katchka was ''subjected to ridicule and
annoyance because of this'').

Most requests appear to have been granted routinely, although as recently as
1967, a Civil Court judge in Brooklyn refused to change Samuel Weinberg's family
name to Lansing ''for future business reasons, such that my sons shall not bear
any possible stigma.'' The judge's name was Jacob Weinberg.

During World War I, another Brooklyn judge refused the application of a Weitz to
become a Weeks.

''There is no good reason why persons of German extraction should be permitted
to conceal the fact by adopting through the aid of the court names of American
or English origin,'' the judge ruled. ''It may involve some moral courage to
bear German surnames or patronymics in these days, but the discomfort can best
be borne by a display of genuine loyalty to this country.''

Nancy Foner, a sociology professor at Hunter College of the City University of
New York, said: ''Jews and Italians changed their surnames in the past so that
people wouldn't identify them as Jews or Italians, the famous cases of course
being movie stars. But if you look, phenotypically, nonwhite -- East Asian, for
example, or black -- changing your last name is not going to make a difference.
Betty Joan Perske became Lauren Bacall, and most people didn't know she was
Jewish; whatever name she used, Lena Horne was black.''

Lisa Chang, whose parents came from Korea in 1976, had assumed she would marry a
Korean man, but decided to retain her maiden name when she wed a Caucasian
instead.

''I felt like I would lose a part of myself and my Korean heritage and like I
was cheating on my family's name,'' said Ms. Chang, 28, a troubleshooter for
online advertising sites. ''No one actually told me I had to change my last
name, but I did feel some pressure from my future in-laws.''

Marija Sajkas, 40, a health care advocate who moved from Yugoslavia seven years
ago, is adopting her Bosnian husband's surname, Tomic -- partly because it is
easier to pronounce. ''I am fortunate,'' she said, ''to have a great husband who
also has a pronounceable surname.''

Even these days, finding precisely the right adoptive name -- one syllable or
not -- can be a problem. Not long ago, David M. Glauberman, a Manhattan public
relations executive, grew tired of having to spell his name every time he left a
telephone message. Instead, he legally changed his name to Grant. The first time
he left a message, a secretary asked: ''Is that Grand with a 'd' or Grant with a
't'?''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: An undated photograph from Ellis Island, where officials
sometimes transliterated the surnames of immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED
PRESS) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 30, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Massacre in Tamaulipas

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 351 words


The full story of the massacre in Tamaulipas, in northeast Mexico, awaits
telling by its one survivor. The early news accounts are horrifying: 72 people,
said to be migrants from Central and South America on their way to the United
States, are waylaid and imprisoned by drug smugglers on a ranch 100 miles south
of Texas. They refuse to pay extortion fees and are executed. The survivor, shot
in the neck, hears their screams for mercy as he flees. After a gun battle with
the authorities, the killers escape in S.U.V.'s. The dead, 58 men and 14 women,
are found piled in a room, discarded contraband.

The temptation may be to write this atrocity off as another ugly footnote in
Mexico's vicious drug war. But such things do not exist in isolation. Mexico's
drug cartels are nourished from outside, by American cash, heavy weapons and
addiction; the northward pull of immigrants is fueled by our demand for low-wage
labor.

Drug cartels, opportunistic capitalists, have leaped into the business of
smuggling people. Illegal immigrants, known as pollos, or chickens, are in some
ways better than cocaine bricks because they can be forced to pay ransom and be
drug mules.

The American response to Mexico's agonies has mostly been a heightened fixation
on militarizing the border -- most recently, a $600 million bill offered by
Senator Charles Schumer, Democrat of New York, and signed by President Obama.
Enforcement without any overhaul of legal migration creates only the illusion of
control. Without a system tied to labor demand, illegality, disorder and death
proliferate.

Current temporary-worker programs are so cumbersome and bureaucratic they are
almost unusable by employers. Unable to enter legally, and locked out of Texas
and California by stringent border security, immigrants skirt the fence ever
farther into the remote Arizona desert. Illegal crossings are down in the bad
economy, but deaths this brutal summer are up. The pull of opportunity still
beckons.

We have delegated to drug lords the job of managing our immigrant supply, just
as they manage our supply of narcotics. The results are clear.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

On the Lake Shore Limited

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 510 words


To see what immigration hard-liners really have in mind, ride the Lake Shore
Limited between Chicago and New York or Boston. It is a daily Amtrak train that
is regularly boarded and searched by the Border Patrol, even though it does not
cross any international border.

As Nina Bernstein of The Times reported on Monday, border checkpoints aren't
just at the border anymore. She rode the train in western New York and found
agents roaming the aisles, questioning passengers about their citizenship and
removing those who could not prove they were here legally. What she described
looked like just the kind of aggressive internal immigration enforcement that
right-wing politicians have clamored for, but is arbitrary, oppressive and
dangerously prone to racial profiling.

The Border Patrol says agents ask for people's documents as part of a
''consensual and nonintrusive conversation.'' Passengers could decline to
answer, but some told Ms. Bernstein that was theoretical, if not fictional,
especially on a darkened train at 2 a.m. And train riders and civil-rights
advocates told Ms. Bernstein that the burden of document checks falls hardest on
people who look like foreigners. A woman who encountered the Border Patrol while
riding a train with her boyfriend, who is Mexican, said: ''You're sitting on the
train asleep, and if you don't look like a U.S. citizen, it's 'Wake up!' ''

This should not be happening. We are well aware of the federal crackdown on
illegal immigration, sparked by the clamor for fencing and troops at the border.
But we do not recall any discussion of imposing internal immigration checks on
public transportation, with agents with dogs and guns randomly hauling people
off trains.

The Border Patrol's mission includes interrogating people as they enter and
leave the country, and it is authorized to operate within 100 miles of the
border. But as its budget and manpower have soared since 9/11, it is looking
like an agency distorted by mission creep, especially on the relatively quiet
northern border. In the Rochester area, in western New York, border agents
removed 2,788 passengers from trains from October 2005 to September 2009.
Rochester sits on Lake Ontario across from Canada, but it is no border city; the
border is far out in the middle of the lake.

There is probably a reason the Border Patrol is waging its little-noted campaign
on Amtrak and buses way out in rural and western New York and not, say, on the D
subway to Coney Island, which happens to be near Kennedy International Airport.
Border checks on New York City trains would prompt a much louder clamor about
misplaced priorities and racial profiling, and harsher questions about whether
the crackdown has anything to do with making the country safer.

Administration officials, including the head of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, have recently said their top priority is catching convicted
criminals, gang members and other dangerous immigrants. We welcome the call for
restraint and discretion in using limited resources. Someone should tell the
Border Patrol.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                              Late Edition - Final

Ellis Island Oral Histories Online

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 212 words


A collection of more than 1,700 recorded oral histories from immigrants who
arrived in the United States through Ellis Island will be available free online
beginning Thursday at ancestry.com/immigration. The histories, recorded by the
National Park Service starting in the 1970s, are housed at the Ellis Island
Immigration Museum and have previously been available only to island visitors.
They capture moments like Lawrence Meinwald's first glimpse of the Statue of
Liberty: ''It was very early in the morning and we heard this rumbling,'' he
says. ''My father and I dressed and went to the deck. There were people of all
denominations, some on their knees making the sign of the cross, Jews in their
prayer shawls as we were passing the Statue of Liberty.'' The tapes are the
latest addition to Ancestry.com's United States Immigration Collection, which
has 170 million records including lists of passengers who immigrated by ship to
America between 1820 and 1960, more than seven million citizenship and
naturalization records, border crossings and passport applications.
Ancestry.com's full collection of United States immigration records will be
searchable free for a limited period, Thursday through Monday. The Ellis Island
Oral History collection will remain free.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

The Immigration Crackdown Steps Into the Kitchen

BYLINE: By SARAH KERSHAW; Toby Lyles contributed research.

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 2070 words


SAN DIEGO

FOR a man facing the possibility of up to 30 years in prison, almost $4 million
in fines and the government seizure of his small French restaurant here, Michel
Malecot has an unusually jovial and serene air.

During lunch recently, he walked around the French Gourmet, his 45-seat
restaurant, bakery and catering company in the city's Pacific Beach
neighborhood, hugging his regular customers and planting a kiss on each cheek,
before meandering back into the sprawling kitchen to make himself a herring
baguette with butter.

''Serve this with warm potatoes,'' Mr. Malecot said, ''and c'est bon.''

An immigrant from the South of France, he came here in 1972, settling in San
Diego because he said the climate reminded him of home. And now it is the knotty
issue of immigration that has made him a local cause celebre, thrust him into
one of the nation's most contentious debates, jeopardized his future and sent a
current of fear through the $550-billion-plus restaurant industry.

In April, Mr. Malecot, 58, was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of
illegally hiring 12 undocumented immigrants and, in what prosecutors portray as
a brazen deception, continuing to employ them after learning that they were in
the country illegally. He pleaded not guilty. Now, if convicted, he faces the
possibility of forfeiture of the restaurant building, along with an adjacent
rental property, Froggy's Bar. Legal experts say it would be an exceptionally
stiff punishment, but one that could be a sign of things to come for an industry
that is one of the nation's largest employers of immigrants.

''They're using a body of law intended for drug dealers and money launderers and
going after an iconic bakery and philanthropic business,'' said Jot Condie, the
president of the California Restaurant Association, which has 22,000 members.
''If their strategy is to get the attention of the industry, mission
accomplished.''

Under a policy that went into effect in April 2009, the Obama administration is
taking a much tougher stance on employers who hire illegal immigrants than any
administration in decades. Enforcement agents have subjected businesses across
the country to much greater scrutiny, using tactics that were almost nonexistent
until two years ago. Federal officials said they expected to announce record
numbers of investigations and fines by the end of the year. As of July 31,
Immigration and Customs Enforcement, an arm of the Department of Homeland
Security, had announced investigations of 2,073 businesses so far this year,
outpacing the 1,461 conducted in all of 2009.

Restaurants are not the only businesses to fall under the searchlight. But until
recently, immigration enforcement had been notoriously lax, with a kind of
universal wink at kitchens filled with employees working either off the books or
with false documents, government officials and industry experts say.

But that is quickly changing, based on the rising number of investigations and
the penalties being sought against restaurateurs.

In June, the owner of two Maryland restaurants who pleaded guilty to hiring and
harboring illegal immigrants was ordered to forfeit to the government more than
$700,000 in assets -- in addition to his motorcycle -- and faces up to 10 years
in prison. In November, a restaurateur in Mississippi who had pleaded guilty to
hiring illegal immigrants was sentenced to a year in prison and a year of
supervised release. Combined fines in the case, shared among several defendants,
amount to $600,000.

Out of a total of about 12.7 million workers in the restaurant industry, an
estimated 1.4 million -- both legal and illegal immigrants -- are foreign born,
according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. According to 2008 estimates from
the Pew Hispanic Center, about 20 percent of the nearly 2.6 million chefs, head
cooks and cooks are illegal immigrants. Among the 360,000 dishwashers, 28
percent are undocumented, according to the estimates.

Those numbers sounded low to a Manhattan chef and restaurateur who spoke on the
condition of anonymity because he does not want to draw attention to his TriBeCa
restaurant.

''We always, always hire the undocumented workers,'' he said. ''It's not just
me, it's everybody in the industry. First, they are willing to do the work.
Second, they are willing to learn. Third, they are not paid as well. It's an
economic decision. It's less expensive to hire an undocumented person.''

While many restaurants do comply with the law, according to government
officials, labor economists say immigrants are highly appealing hires because
they tend to be especially loyal, stable and dependable. They are also more
likely than United States citizens to work for lower wages without health
insurance, sick days or paid vacations and paid breaks.

Of nine major chefs and restaurateurs asked about the government's intensified
focus on employers of immigrants -- Wolfgang Puck, Stephen P. Hanson, Stephen
Starr, Jeffrey Chodorow, Danny Meyer, Daniel Boulud, Rick Bayless, Rich Melman
and Nick Valenti -- only Mr. Valenti's company, the Patina Restaurant Group,
would comment.

In a written statement, the company said: ''Patina Restaurant Group does
periodically bring in employees from other countries following all Federal
Immigration laws. This is a small percentage of our workforce, for which we
utilize the programs provided by the department of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, allowing us to bring in chefs and management talent from
abroad, along with international students to expand their knowledge with hands
on training.''

The TriBeCa restaurateur, who said he had been working in the business for more
than two decades, said that about one-fourth of his employees are illegal
immigrants, mostly from Mexico, Africa and South America. He said that those who
provide him with Social Security numbers are paid by check. Others receive cash,
which allows restaurant owners to avoid paying taxes. He insisted that he did
not pay anyone less than the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour.

''If they give me a Social Security number, I don't ask questions,'' he said.
''That's what people do.''

If immigration laws are fully enforced in the restaurant business, ''At the end
of the day, the customer is going to end up paying for it,'' he said. ''We'll
have to pay higher wages, more taxes and then we will have to charge more. The
economy is not that great, so you charge more, you have fewer customers and more
people going out of business.''

Barbara Coe, founder and president of the California Coalition for Immigration
Reform, which advocates limiting immigration, said she has little sympathy for
restaurants that hire illegal workers.

''Any restaurant that chooses to hire them deserves to go bankrupt,'' she said.
''They are padding their pockets by breaking the law.''

Some advocates for immigrants agree.

''We don't think a restaurant should exist if it doesn't pay legal wages,'' said
Ted Smukler, public policy director of Interfaith Worker Justice, a workers'
rights group. ''New immigrants are deathly afraid of complaining, and that makes
them appealing workers for unscrupulous employers.''

At the French Gourmet, the government says that in addition to Mr. Malecot,
Richard Kauffmann, a manager and pastry chef, was deeply involved in what it
calls a conspiracy. Mr. Kauffmann faces similar charges, prison time and fines,
and has pleaded not guilty.

Mr. Malecot opened the French Gourmet, which now has about 120 full- and
part-time employees, in 1979. He married an American woman and became a United
States citizen in 1985.

He is one of the city's top caterers, having won a slew of local and state
awards for the business. Its wedding cakes have been listed as a ''Best of
Weddings'' pick on Knot.com for several years.

But the business, whose motto is ''It's a Delicious Day at the French
Gourmet!'', drew a less welcome brand of attention after Mr. Malecot catered a
benefit free of charge for a veteran returning from the Iraq war in 2006.
According to Mr. Malecot's lawyer, Eugene Iredale, the small dinner was held at
an Air Force base, where heightened security measures and identity checks led to
the discovery that one of the French Gourmet's employees, an Algerian immigrant,
was working illegally. From then on, the authorities were watching.

According to the indictment, the business had already received what are known as
''no match'' letters from the Social Security Administration, saying that the
Social Security numbers used by some employees were not valid. Those letters
instruct employers not to take any action against the workers, but instead to
resubmit valid numbers.

The indictment contends that Mr. Malecot then started paying those employees in
cash, before Mr. Kauffmann and others submitted new Social Security numbers that
they falsely certified as genuine. And the government says the French Gourmet
went to great lengths to deceive the authorities -- leading to felony charges of
harboring immigrants, or concealing their illegal status.

On May 15, 2008, the streets around the French Gourmet were shut down as about a
dozen armed agents stormed into the restaurant. They arrested 12 workers, dug
through papers and carted away hard drives from the office.

(Mr. Malecot was in France at the time of the raid, and charges were not filed
against him until last February. He surrendered in court, without being
arrested, and was released on $150,000 bail.)

Mr. Malecot's case points up one of the complexities of hiring immigrants: A
federal law requires businesses to submit worker documents that ''on their face
reasonably appear to be genuine,'' the law says. But fake papers are easily
obtained by immigrants. To avoid being tripped up by paperwork that looks real,
employers say that they are forced into the role of policing immigrants.

Government agencies now recommend that employers hire an auditing firm or train
personnel to detect fraudulent documents. A growing number of states now require
employers to use E-verify, a government-run online system that instantly
determines the eligibility of job applicants to work in the United States. Even
in states where the system is not required, industry experts said, more
restaurants are using the system. The French Gourmet is now among them.

Critics, however, say that the data in the system can be wrong and that some
people who are eligible to work are being turned away.

The National Restaurant Association is lobbying a deadlocked Congress for
changes in immigration laws, including policies that would make it easier for
undocumented workers to gain legal status.

Mr. Malecot, who spoke freely in an interview at the restaurant, said he
believed that he had filed all the proper employment paperwork for the arrested
employees. Those workers are now witnesses in the case against him, according to
Mr. Iredale.

''Maybe you just look at this as destiny,'' Mr. Malecot said. ''I came here with
nothing. I guess it's all a game. But it's definitely a blow, and it's
frustrating.''

Mr. Malecot is an active philanthropist in San Diego, contributing to causes
including Alzheimer's and cancer research and education to help victims of
torture. His employees describe him as a father figure who has paid for their
dental work and babysitting, charters a fishing boat for the annual company
party and provides every employee with a week's paid vacation, extremely rare in
restaurants.

Because of his financial troubles as a result of the case, he said, he can no
longer afford some of these perks. The next court date is Nov. 29.

''He's very generous,'' Asuncion Gallardo, a Mexican immigrant who has cooked at
the restaurant for 16 years, said in Spanish, out of earshot of Mr. Malecot.
''It's like we're all a family. We eat -- he gives us three meals a day and food
to go. And then he gives out food for the poor.''

Since the indictment, Mr. Malecot said, he has lost at least $500,000 in
catering jobs. Catering accounts for about 70 percent of the French Gourmet's
revenues, which so far this year amount to roughly $4.5 million, Mr. Malecot
said.

But longtime customers have been dining there more often to show their support,
he said.

One of them, Pat Hyndman, has been eating at the French Gourmet for 10 years and
said: ''My immediate reaction is this is a bunch of government nonsense. He's
the most respected caterer in town. But then I realized this is much bigger than
Michel.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RAIDED: Hispanic workers, above, help to prepare food in the
kitchen of the French Gourmet in San Diego, left. The owner, Michel Malecot,
bottom, has been charged with  hiring illegal  immigrants, thrusting him into
the national debate on the subject.   (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SANDY HUFFAKER FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Hoping to Keep Majority, Democrats Wield It

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 972 words


WASHINGTON -- The Senate on Thursday approved a multi-billion dollar package of
tax breaks and government-backed loans for small businesses, as Democrats sought
to use the muscle of their majorities to pursue a Congressional agenda that
would make their case for retaining control in the House and Senate this fall.

After surmounting months of Republican opposition to approve the small-business
measure and send it to the House, Democrats -- over sharp Republican objections
-- set up a floor showdown for next week over a Pentagon policy bill that also
touches on the politically charged issues of immigration and gay men, lesbians
and bisexuals in the military.

The Pentagon bill would not only allow the repeal of the ''don't ask, don't
tell'' policy, but would also include legislation that would provide a path to
citizenship for illegal immigrants who arrive in the United States before age
16, reside here for five years, earn a high school degree and complete two years
of college or military service.

The immigration language is being added at the behest of the Senate majority
leader, Harry Reid, who is eager to mobilize Hispanic voters for his re-election
campaign in Nevada, and it reflects a broader Democratic effort to secure
support from Hispanic Americans nationwide by promising a comprehensive
immigration bill in the future.

To underscore that commitment, President Obama met in the Oval Office on
Thursday with three prominent Hispanic Democrats: Senator Robert Menendez of New
Jersey and Representatives Nydia M. Velazquez of New York and Luis V. Gutierrez
of Illinois.

In the House, Democrats are pressing forward with legislation to promote
American manufacturing, an issue of major resonance in some of the battleground
states of the Rust Belt, including Pennsylvania, Ohio and Michigan.

The renewed effort by Democrats to use their power in Congress to promote their
agenda comes as a New York Times/CBS News poll shows voters dissatisfied with
Democrats but even more so with Republicans. That could give Democratic
incumbents, who are trailing in many polls, an opening in a year when they seem
certain to lose seats.

Most of the measures are not likely to be completed before lawmakers leave
Washington to campaign in early October, but Democrats said the legislative push
was a good way to show voters, particularly their party's base, that they were
battling on numerous fronts.

''We live in an information age,'' said Senator Maria Cantwell, Democrat of
Washington. ''Every day that can define what you are for and what you're not for
is helpful.''

With the two parties also locked in a major fight over what to do about a set of
expiring tax cuts, the legislative maneuvering was infuriating Senate
Republicans, who said the Democrats were abusing the floor to try to score
political points.

Senator John McCain of Arizona, the senior Republican on the Armed Services
Committee, said the Democrats were turning a normally bipartisan military
measure into a vehicle to advance social policy priorities like immigration and
gay rights.

''The majority leader is turning legislation on our national defense into a
political football,'' Mr. McCain said.

Mr. Reid seemed only to inflame Republican anger when he conceded in a floor
speech that the Pentagon measure had virtually no chance of being adopted until
after the election but nonetheless called on Republicans to allow debate to
begin next week.

''This bill should be an easy one,'' said the Senate Republican leader, Mitch
McConnell of Kentucky. ''We should be a united body and give our troops a
responsible defense policy bill they need, and then the defense appropriations
bill they need. Without strings. Without games. And save the politics for the
campaign trail.''

Mr. Reid scheduled a procedural vote for Tuesday, and Democrats need the support
of 60 senators to bring the bill to the floor. The Democrats now nominally
control 59 seats.

Democrats said they also intended to offer an amendment to the military bill
that would end the practice of ''secret holds'' in the Senate, by which
lawmakers can block a bill under the cloak of anonymity.

With the prospect of potentially steep losses in November, Democrats, led by
President Obama, are counting on the small-business measure to illustrate their
efforts to revive the faltering economy, and to define Republicans as
obstructionists.

The vote on the small-business measure was 61 to 38, with just two Republicans,
George V. Voinovich of Ohio and George LeMieux of Florida, joining Democrats in
favor of it.

Mr. Voinovich is retiring after this year, and Mr. LeMieux is leaving after
serving as a temporary successor to Mel Martinez, who retired last year. Every
other Republican voted no except Senator David Vitter of Louisiana, who was
absent.

In addition to providing tax breaks and enhancing a number of existing aid
programs within the Small Business Administration, the legislation will create a
$30 billion lending program within the Treasury that will channel
government-backed loans through community banks.

Asked if he was disappointed that more Republicans had not supported the
measure, Mr. LeMieux said, ''I'm just glad we were able to pass it.'' He noted
that Florida has more than two million small businesses that stand to benefit
from the legislation.

Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana, the primary author of the bill,
said she wished it had been approved eight months ago and blamed Republicans for
delaying it. ''Every week that we've waited to pass this bill has been another
tough week for small businesses throughout this country,'' Ms. Landrieu said.

She said that local bankers were eager to begin making loans and that credit
could begin flowing shortly.

House Democratic leaders said they hope to pass the bill quickly and send it to
Mr. Obama, who is eager to sign it.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Democratic senators, from left, Mary L. Landrieu, Carl
Levin, Debbie Stabenow, Maria Cantwell and Amy Klobuchar. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DREW
ANGERER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 20, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mormon-Owned Paper Stands With Immigrants

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words


SALT LAKE CITY -- Joseph A. Cannon is nobody's liberal. His resume reads as if
it belongs to a delegate to the Republican National Convention, which,
incidentally, he was in 2004.

He was an official for the Environmental Protection Agency under Ronald Reagan
and chairman of the Utah Republican Party. As editor of The Deseret News, he
published editorials condemning deficit spending, same-sex marriage and lenient
alcohol laws.

So it was something of a head-scratcher, Mr. Cannon said, when his voice mail
and e-mail started filling up with messages from people calling him a ''liberal
freak'' for the sympathetic way his paper often writes about illegal immigrants.

''You have become a dangerous newspaper, one that I am on the verge of
discontinuing,'' wrote one outraged reader.

The News's push for a more liberal embrace of undocumented immigrants has led to
a collision between its editorial mission and its conservative, mostly Mormon,
readers. But if this issue seems to stray from the reliably conservative
politics of The News, Utah's second-largest paper behind The Salt Lake Tribune,
that may be in part because it is owned by the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints.

Hispanics are the most populous minority group in the country -- and they
represent a vast potential constituency for the Mormon church, which has already
made considerable efforts to develop strong relations with Hispanic communities.
Those efforts include, since February, a Spanish-language paper called El
Observador.

''The church's practice is to say, 'Look, we're not immigration agents. We care
for the soul,' '' Mr. Cannon said in an interview from his office in downtown
Salt Lake City, where he can look out his window at the towering spires of the
Salt Lake Temple.

Both The News and El Observador are owned by the Deseret Media Companies
(pronounced DEZ-er-ET; it is named after the provisional state of Deseret
founded by Mormons in the Salt Lake Valley in 1849), which also owns Utah's
largest television station, KSL, and its largest news Web site, KSL.com.

Because any editorial that appears under the Deseret Media masthead carries the
unofficial imprimatur of the church in many Mormons' eyes, Deseret editors and
executives could indeed help shape opinions in the heavily Mormon state
Legislature, where lawmakers are debating a zero-tolerance illegal immigration
law similar to the one passed in Arizona this year.

For the time being, church leaders seem uninterested in wading into the debate
by taking an official policy position, as they did by declaring support for the
referendum to ban same-sex marriage in California. Rather, it has made only a
benign public appeal for ''careful reflection and civil discourse'' on the
issue. But that has hardly soothed matters.

That the main sponsor of the Arizona law, Russell Pearce, is a Mormon has not
been lost on many Hispanics here. And some active Mormons said they thought that
the church, through its media properties, was trying to reassure Hispanics who
were suspicious that it condoned anti-immigrant attitudes.

''Some of my Latino friends have said, 'I'm going to leave the church over
this,' '' said Tony Yapias, director of Proyecto Latino de Utah, a Latino
outreach group. ''My view is that this is an aggressive way for the L.D.S.
church to very effectively use their media power to try to soften up the
community. They're sending a message to their members.''

Both Mr. Cannon and Deseret Media's chief executive, Mark H. Willes, said they
never sought approval from church officials on any editorial or article they
ran. They said the church also never asked to see an article before it was
printed, though former editors said the practice had been to fax drafts of
editorials to church headquarters.

The newsroom at The Deseret News is a mix of practicing and nonpracticing
Mormons and people of other religious beliefs. It is not a strictly doctrinaire
environment. There is a coffee machine in the break room, despite the church's
discouragement of drinking caffeinated beverages.

But as Mr. Cannon makes clear, The Deseret News is hardly going to run something
that would offend its owners.

''No one is going to write an editorial here that we thought was inconsistent
with or would poke the church in the eye,'' said Mr. Cannon, who this week will
move on to become a special adviser to the editorial board. ''That's not going
to happen.''

Themes that appear in The Deseret News's coverage of immigration are often
echoed in El Observador. Its editor, Patricia Dark, said the paper now had 7,000
subscribers who received home delivery. Subscribers pay nothing; the
three-times-a-week paper is subsidized by the church.

With a staff of three full-time reporters, El Observador typically devotes two
or three articles in each edition to immigration-related topics. A major theme
is the effect that deportation has on families. ''Terror en familias hispanas''
read one recent front-page headline.

''The breaking up of families is horrific, so we want to highlight that,'' said
Ms. Dark. Among Mormons, whose faith teaches that the family bond should be
eternally inviolate, the issue of severing families is especially resonant.

Selecting themes and story lines that will appeal to Mormon values has been one
way Deseret Media has tried to shift the debate.

Last month, Mr. Willes took the highly unusual step of writing an editorial that
simultaneously ran on the front pages of The News and El Observador. The
editorial, accompanied in print by an image of the Statue of Liberty with its
famous inscription ''Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning
to breathe free,'' was also read by Mr. Willes on KSL, Salt Lake City's NBC
affiliate, and the KSL radio station.

''We, of all people, should be sensitive to the desire of others to provide more
opportunities for themselves and their families,'' Mr. Willes wrote, making a
direct appeal to Mormons' sense of their history. Like Mormons, who fled the
Midwest in the mid-19th century after failing to assimilate into society,
undocumented immigrants know what it is like to be outcasts, Mr. Willes said.

But those who find their positions on immigration criticized by Mr. Willes's
media companies see journalistic bias, not Mormon values, at work.

''Obviously, they're trying to sway public opinion in a big way,'' said Stephen
Sandstrom, a Republican state representative who is sponsoring a bill that would
create a set of strict immigration laws similar to Arizona's. Mr. Sandstrom, a
Mormon, said he was not deterred. ''I do have people in e-mails saying, 'You'd
better not back down or I'll know the church got to you.' And I just assure them
that the L.D.S. church is not directing me one way or another on this.''

The immigration issue has become intensely personal for Mr. Willes, a former
publisher of The Los Angeles Times who was selected by church leaders to run
Deseret Media a year and a half ago.

He has consulted lawyers to advise him on the technicalities of immigration law
and convened a committee of Deseret Media editors and executives that meets to
brainstorm ideas on immigration coverage. ''Everywhere we looked, the problem
just seemed substantially more complicated than the dialogue,'' he said.

Mr. Cannon acknowledged that changing minds would be difficult, but he said he
hoped at the very least to challenge readers to reflect on immigration through
the teachings of their religion.

''What are the two commandments? Love God and love your neighbor,'' he said.
''These people are our neighbors -- incontestably, by any definition, they are
our neighbors.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joseph A. Cannon, top, of The Deseret News
Patricia Dark, the editor of El Observador, a Spanish- language paper
 and Mark H. Willes, chief of Deseret Media, which owns both. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY
DJAMILA GROSSMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 20, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Dream Time

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 453 words


Congress may soon have a chance to repair, in a powerful way, the shambles it
has made of immigration. It can pass an amendment to the defense authorization
bill due to come before the Senate on Tuesday. The amendment is the Dream Act,
an inspired bit of carving from the hugely ambitious, chronically unsuccessful
comprehensive immigration reform.

The Dream Act opens the door to military service and higher education for young
people whose parents brought them to this country as children without proper
documentation. If they finish high school, show good moral character and serve
at least two years in the military or earn a college degree, they can earn
citizenship.

In a poisoned climate for legislation of any kind, and with the immigration
debate more wretched than ever, the Dream Act's chances are uncertain. That is a
shame, because the act was written for exactly the kind of people America should
be embracing: young soldiers, scholars, strivers, future leaders.

Those who might qualify -- roughly 800,000 of the 11 million people living here
without authorization -- are blameless for their illegal status and helpless to
make it right. Most cannot leave their families to return to countries they do
not know. They cannot legally work, qualify for scholarships or loans to pay for
college, or serve in the military. They live in limbo, vulnerable to arrest,
their dreams deferred, their hopes squandered.

The Defense Department, at least, understands their value. Passage of the Dream
Act is one of its official goals for helping to maintain ''a mission-ready,
all-volunteer force.'' The educators and others who also support the act
recognize how much better it is to encourage the aspirations of young people,
not to consign them to lives of under-the-table jobs and unmet potential.

For years the Dream Act was shackled to larger immigration bills as a sweetener
to help forge one big compromise. Now that comprehensive reform is dead in this
Congress, and perhaps in the next, the Dream Act is the best hope for legalizing
any significant number of Americans-in-waiting.

The president and Congress and dejected supporters of comprehensive reform have
an obligation to make the Dream Act come true. Republican senators who have
shelved their commitment to reform should help make it happen: people like Orrin
Hatch, an original Dream Act sponsor, now a sour voice for border control. Sam
Brownback, another former supporter. And the formerly bipartisan Lindsey Graham
and John McCain.

The Dream Act alone won't achieve the large-scale reform the country needs. But
it will be a desperately needed affirmation that fixing immigration is not all
about border fear and lockdowns. It's about welcoming the hopeful.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Students Spell Out Messages on Their Immigration Frustration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1170 words


MIAMI -- Dozens of college students lay down on South Beach on Sunday afternoon,
but not to sunbathe. Most were immigrants in this country illegally, and their
bodies, fully clothed, formed giant letters that spelled out a message for
Floridians and one of their senators, complete with a human exclamation point:
Call LeMieux!

The students staged the surfside demonstration after Senator Harry Reid, the
Democratic majority leader, announced last week that he would add to a military
spending bill an amendment that would open a path to legal status for hundreds
of thousands of illegal immigrant students. Senator George LeMieux, a
Republican, has not declared his position, and the students hoped to secure his
support for the measure, which will be put to a first test on Tuesday with a
procedural vote.

Illegal immigrant students across the country have not been deterred by reports
from Washington that the measure, known to its supporters as the Dream Act, has
slim chances of passing. Republicans have denounced Mr. Reid's move to even
bring it up just six weeks before midterm elections as a ploy to attract Latino
voters during his own hard-fought re-election campaign in Nevada, and they say a
proposal on an issue as contentious as immigration should not be attached to the
military reauthorization bill.

But in Phoenix and Boston, immigrant students who want to enlist in the military
under the terms of the student bill performed drills over the weekend and on
Monday in front of the offices of Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona,
and Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts.

In Utah, students started a call-in campaign and held a sit-down vigil to draw
the attention of Senator Orrin G. Hatch, a Republican who was one of the first
sponsors of the student bill nearly a decade ago, but has not made clear how he
will vote this time. In California, immigrants wearing caps and gowns started
public fasts, scheduled rallies and unfurled banners over highways. Actions were
also reported in nine other states.

''We are literally asking people to stop their lives to support the bill,'' said
Carlos Saavedra, president of the United We Dream coalition, a national
immigrant student organization.

Miguel Sanchez, 19, a Miami Dade College student who has been in the United
States illegally since he was 10, was one side of an ''A'' in the human
billboard message on Miami Beach, which was filmed by television cameras. Mr.
Sanchez, who is from Honduras, said he hung back for years, worried that public
protest could lead immigration agents to locate and deport him. But he said that
if he continued much longer without legal status, he would not be able to
transfer to a larger university to complete college.

''All of a sudden I've lost that fear,'' Mr. Sanchez said.

The urgency for change among illegal immigrant students has made them the most
outspoken flank of the movement pushing for legislation to open a path to legal
status for millions of immigrants here illegally. Immigrants who were brought to
this country unlawfully as children can generally complete public high school
without problems, but they hit a wall when they try to go to college. They
cannot receive public financial aid and in many states must pay high
out-of-state tuition rates. They cannot obtain driver's licenses, or in many
cases licenses to practice a skill or profession even if they manage to
graduate.

''We just found a wall, an obstacle that we couldn't overcome,'' said Guillermo
Reyes, 26, a student at Florida Atlantic University who participated in the
South Beach protest. Immigration authorities detained Mr. Reyes last year but
deferred his deportation, so for now he is authorized to work and attend school.
But for the long term, he said, ''that is really the only hope that we have, for
the Dream Act to pass.''

While Mr. Reid's decision to bring up the student legislation took many
Republicans by surprise, it was the result of recent discussions by Democratic
leaders and White House officials with immigrant advocates and student leaders,
several participants in those talks said.

The advocates argued that after President Obama did not deliver on repeated
promises to pass a larger immigration overhaul early in his term, the Democrats
had to show some action on immigration before midterm elections that seem likely
to bring gains for Republicans.

Mr. Reid was persuaded by impatient student leaders who said they did not want
the measure to wait for a larger immigration law overhaul, Congressional aides
said.

Mr. LeMieux's offices received many phone calls in recent days, from callers
both for and against the immigration bill, said his spokesman, Ken Lundberg.

The news of the vote on the student bill brought an outpouring from academic
leaders, after many college presidents have declared their support in recent
years. Michael M. Crow, the president of Arizona State University, and David J.
Skorton, the president of Cornell, sent a letter in June to 2,200 university and
college presidents asking them to urge lawmakers to pass the bill.

The focus in Arizona this year has been on curbing illegal immigration, with a
crackdown bill enacted in April. (Important sections of that law were stayed by
a federal court.) But in an interview Monday, Mr. Crow said his university, with
70,100 students, was supporting hundreds of immigrants each year who lack legal
status by raising private money.

''There are thousands and thousands of students who were successful in public
school, who did everything right and didn't do anything wrong on their own,''
Mr. Crow said. ''The bill is their pathway to innocence.''

The student bill would open a path to eventual legal residency for illegal
immigrants who arrived in the country before they were 16 years old, have been
here for at least five years and have graduated from high school. It would
require them to finish two years of college or military service before gaining
legal status.

About 726,000 illegal immigrants would become immediately eligible for legal
status under the bill, according to the Migration Policy Institute, a research
group in Washington.

The Defense Department has listed passage of the student bill among the goals in
its formal strategic plan for the next two years. But many Republicans argued
that the student measure was not directly related to military reauthorization.
In an interview on Fox News last week, Mr. McCain, who has supported the student
bill in the past, said that in this instance Mr. Reid and other Democratic
leaders ''have put their political agenda ahead of the welfare of the men and
women who are serving in the military today.''

On South Beach, the students' emotions ran high on Sunday, as many laughed and
some cried when they spoke of their frustrations over trying to stay in college,
and being left behind by peers who are American citizens. But Mr. Reyes said
they were not considering defeat. ''None of us have the idea of the Dream Act
not passing even being conceived in our minds,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Miami Beach, students who are illegal immigrants sent
messages to senators considering a measure called the Dream Act.
 The college students' activity was a push for legislation that would open a
path to legal status for millions of immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO
FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

In an Ugly Human-Trafficking Case, Hawaii Forgets Itself

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 688 words


This is a story of two farmers, Laotian immigrant brothers who grow vegetables
in Hawaii. People love their onions, melons, Asian cabbage, herbs and sweet
corn, and their Halloween pumpkin patch is a popular field trip for
schoolchildren all over Oahu. They count local politicians and community leaders
among their many friends, and run a charitable foundation.

Though they are relative newcomers, their adopted home is a state that honors
its agricultural history, where most longtime locals are descendants of
immigrant plantation workers. The brothers fit right in.

But they had an ugly secret. A captive work force: forty-four men, laborers from
Thailand who were lured to Hawaii in 2004 with promises of good wages, housing
and food. The workers sacrificed dearly to make the trip, mortgaging family land
and homes to pay recruiters steep fees of up to $20,000 each.

According to a federal indictment, the workers' passports were taken away. They
were set up in cramped, substandard housing -- some lived in a shipping
container. Many saw their paychecks chiseled with deductions for food and
expenses; some toiled in the fields for no net pay. Workers were told not to
complain or be sent home, with no way to repay their unbearable debts.

The news broke last August. The Civil Rights Division of the Department of
Justice filed charges of forced labor and visa fraud. The farm owners agreed to
plead guilty in December in Federal District Court to conspiring to commit
forced labor. They admitted violating the rules of the H-2A guest worker
program, telling the workers that their labor contracts were ''just a piece of
paper'' used to deceive the federal government.

I wish I could say that at this point the case so shocked the Hawaiian public
that people rushed to aid the immigrants, who reminded them so much of their
parents and grandparents. That funds were raised and justice sought.

But that didn't happen.

In an astounding display of amnesia and misplaced sympathy, Hawaii rallied
around the defendants. After entering their plea deal, the farmers, Michael and
Alec Sou of Aloun Farms, orchestrated an outpouring of letters begging the judge
for leniency at sentencing. Business leaders, community activists, politicians
-- even two former governors, Benjamin Cayetano and John Waihee, and top
executives at First Hawaiian Bank -- joined a parade attesting to the brothers'
goodness.

The men were paragons of diversified agriculture and wise land use, the letter
writers said. They had special vegetable knowledge that nobody else had, and
were holding the line against genetically modified crops. If they went to
prison, evil developers would pave their farmland. Think of the ''trickle down
impact,'' one woman implored the judge. Besides, their produce was delicious.

The friends pleaded for probation, fines, anything but prison. The workers, now
scattered to uncertain fates and still in debt, have seen no such empathy.

The Sous were supposed to have been sentenced months ago, but at a hearing in
July they made statements that muddled and seemed to contradict their plea
agreement. The vexed judge, Susan Oki Mollway, postponed sentencing to Sept. 9,
so they could get their story straight. Back in court this month, the men
recanted some of their sworn testimony, so the judge threw the plea deal out.
Now there will be a trial in November.

Another shocking story emerged in Honolulu this month: a federal grand jury
indicted six people on charges of enslaving 400 Thai farm workers on Maui and
elsewhere -- the largest trafficking case in American history. In Hawaii, no
uproar ensued. The pumpkin-patch field trips are still booked.

Hawaii has a state motto: Ua mau ke ea o ka aina i ka pono, or the life of the
land is perpetuated in righteousness. Hawaiians use ''pono'' to mean what is
just or right, in harmony with nature and with other people. The words hang on
huge bronze seals at the State Capitol, and I feel sure that most longtime
residents of Hawaii can easily recall and recite them, in Hawaiian and English.

Whether some of them ever think about what the motto means, or care, is another
question.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 27, 2010 Monday
                              Late Edition - Final

Water Drops For Migrants: Kindness, Or Offense?

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 981 words


BUENOS AIRES NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, Ariz. -- In this remote, semidesert
landscape along the United States-Mexico border, water is a precious commodity
-- and a contentious one, too.

Two years ago, Daniel J. Millis was ticketed for littering after he was caught
by a federal Fish and Wildlife officer placing gallon jugs of water for passing
immigrants in the brush of this 118,000-acre preserve.

''I do extreme sports, and I know I couldn't walk as far as they do,'' said Mr.
Millis, driving through the refuge recently. ''It's no surprise people are
dying.''

Mr. Millis, 31, was not the only one to get a ticket. Fourteen other volunteers
for Tucson-based organizations that provide aid to immigrants crossing from
Mexico to the United States were similarly cited. Most of the cases were later
dropped, but Mr. Millis and another volunteer for a religious group called No
More Deaths were convicted of defacing the refuge with their water jug drops.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit weighed in on Mr.
Millis's appeal this month, ruling that it was ''ambiguous as to whether
purified water in a sealed bottle intended for human consumption meets the
definition of 'garbage.' '' Voting 2-to-1, a three-judge panel overturned Mr.
Millis's conviction.

The issue remains far from settled, though. The court ruled that Mr. Millis
probably could have been charged under a different statute, something other than
littering. And the Fish and Wildlife Service continues to forbid anyone to leave
gallon jugs of water in the refuge -- a policy backed by this state's
immigration hardliners, who say comforting immigrants will only encourage them
to cross.

From 2002 to 2009, 25 illegal immigrants died while passing through the refuge's
rolling hills, which are flanked by mountains and are home to pronghorns,
coyotes, rattlesnakes and four different kinds of skunks. Throughout southern
Arizona, the death toll totaled 1,715 from 2002 to 2009, with this year's hot
temperatures putting deaths at a record-breaking pace.

The Border Patrol has installed rescue beacons in remote areas along the border,
including several in the Buenos Aires refuge, to allow immigrants in distress to
call for help. Those who are injured and have been left behind by their guides
are often so desperate they no longer fear deportation.

Still, the federal government has acknowledged that additional steps are needed
to keep deaths down on its land. In 2001, it gave another aid group, Humane
Borders, a permit to keep several large water drums on the refuge, each of them
marked by a blue flag and featuring a spigot to allow immigrants to fill their
water bottles for the long trek north.

Last year, the government considered but ultimately decided against allowing No
More Deaths to tether gallon jugs to trees to allow immigrants in more remote
areas to drink without taking the jugs on their way.

Right now, even after the court decision, there is what amounts to a standoff.
This month, the federal government said it was willing to allow more 55-gallon
drums on main pathways in the refuge. It said it would not permit any gallon
jugs.

But the water jugs continue to appear.

Last week, Gene Lefebvre, a retired minister who co-founded No More Deaths,
hiked along a path popular among immigrants until he reached a clearing where
volunteers for his organization had recently left some jugs.

Each bottle had markings on it noting the date it was left and the exact
location on the group's GPS mapping software. There were also signs of
encouragement for the immigrants: a heart and a cross on one bottle and the
words, ''Good luck, friends,'' on another.

''We'd give water to anyone we found in the desert, even the Border Patrol,''
Mr. Lefebvre said.

But opponents say the water drops are encouraging immigrants to continue to come
across the border illegally. The critics say there ought to be Border Patrol
agents stationed near the water stations to arrest those who are crossing
illegally as soon as they finish drinking. So furious are some at the practice
of aiding immigrants that they have slashed open the water jugs, crushed them
with their vehicles or simply poured the water into the desert.

The Buenos Aires refuge is among the most troubled of the 551 refuge areas
across the country, the federal government says. The reason is its location,
adjacent to the border.

''Since its establishment in 1985, refuge staff have worked diligently to
protect species such as the endangered masked bobwhite quail and pronghorn, as
well as offer meaningful visitor recreational opportunities,'' a recently
released government report on the water controversy said. ''However, over the
past decade an increasing amount of refuge time and energy has been required to
address the growing issue of illegal traffic entering the U.S. across refuge
lands.''

In 2006 and 2007, an estimated 250,000 to 300,000 illegal immigrants crossed the
refuge annually, along with Border Patrol agents pursing them, federal officials
say. ''As a result, refuge lands have been marred by illegal trails and roads,
litter and degraded habitat,'' said a government report on the problem.

The numbers have dropped in recent years, to 31,500 in 2008 and about 20,000 in
2009. ''This still averages approximately 50 to 60 illegal immigrants traveling
through the refuge daily,'' the government report said.

Mr. Millis, a former high school Spanish teacher who now works for the Sierra
Club, disputes the notion that leaving out water jugs is luring more immigrants.
He said it was border enforcement efforts that had pushed those seeking to cross
into dangerous desert areas.

As for spoiling the environment, he said he collected as many jugs as he left
behind. He also recounts how he found the dead body of a 14-year-old Salvadoran
girl near the refuge days before he was ticketed.

''People are part of the environment,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Daniel J. Millis, a No More Deaths volunteer, with clean
and dirty water bottles in Pima County, Ariz., Gene Lefebvre, the group's
founder, is in the distance. Bottom left, Mr. Millis near a memorial for an
immigrant. The bottles are marked with a date and messages for immigrants. (A10)

 Gene Lefebvre, of No More Deaths, trying to locate a water station in Pima
County. Volunteers leave water in the desert, including in the Buenos Aires
National Wildlife Refuge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(A14) MAP (A14)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             October 3, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mr. Bloomberg, Mr. Murdoch, Mr. Colbert

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 301 words


It is too late to make a difference this year, but Congress, or at least one
subcommittee, finally heard a thoughtful discussion about immigration. Mayor
Michael Bloomberg of New York and Rupert Murdoch, head of the News Corporation
-- both billionaires -- told the immigration subcommittee of the House Judiciary
Committee that rational and well-regulated immigration is an economic necessity.

Mr. Bloomberg told how New York City, rich in foreign-born, job-creating
entrepreneurs, was riding out the bad economy far better than other parts of the
country. He warned that America's refusal to fix its broken immigration system
is a form of ''national suicide.''

Mr. Murdoch lamented that the world's best and brightest earn advanced degrees
here and then go home, stymied by red tape and arbitrary visa quotas. He argued
that giving illegal immigrants a path to citizenship would bring them ''out of a
shadow economy and add to our tax base,'' and said ''it is nonsense to talk of
expelling 11 or 12 million people.''

When Representative Maxine Waters asked where, on Mr. Murdoch's Fox News, it was
possible to hear arguments like his, Mr. Murdoch said she could find them in The
Wall Street Journal. That is a start.

A few days earlier, the same panel heard from the TV satirist Stephen Colbert,
who told of his difficult day picking crops with migrant farm workers. His
appearance, mostly played in character as a conservative blowhard, was a comedy
routine wrapped around a heartfelt truth: that farm workers do a difficult and
dangerous job that most Americans will not stoop to do.

We are not sure all committee members got it. We believe a lot more Americans
would, if their elected leaders talked as bluntly and as persuasively as Mayor
Bloomberg and Mr. Murdoch -- and with as much heart as Mr. Colbert.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Confusion Over Secure Communities

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 399 words


By 2013, according to an Obama administration plan, everyone in the United
States who is arrested and fingerprinted will undergo an immigration check.
Suspects' names and fingerprints will be run not just through criminal databases
but compared against immigration records, too, through a program that is being
steadily and rapidly rolled out across the country.

The program, Secure Communities, a collaboration between Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, or ICE, and the Department of Justice, is a source of anxiety and
anger for cities, counties and police departments that want to preserve a bright
line between local policing and federal immigration enforcement. Their valid
concern is that local officers should never be seen by immigrant communities as
arms of immigration enforcement. Fighting and preventing crime are unrelated to
detaining and deporting immigrants and should stay that way.

Places like San Francisco, the District of Columbia, and Arlington County, Va.,
have chosen to opt out of Secure Communities, but their ability to do so seems
limited.

Because Secure Communities is a data-sharing program between two federal
departments, the only way a local jurisdiction could avoid participating would
be by refusing to send a suspect's fingerprints to the federal criminal-justice
system, a dereliction of crime-fighting duty. Homeland Security Secretary Janet
Napolitano has written a letter detailing how a local agency could register its
objections as the program is deployed, but she did not really offer an opt-out
clause. This seems hardly likely to preserve that bright line on enforcement.

The Obama administration insists that its primary focus is on catching and
deporting the worst, most dangerous offenders. But its record shows otherwise.
It has been using its powers to detain and deport tens of thousands of
immigrants who have no criminal records and pose no conceivable danger to their
communities.

Secure Communities should not allow overzealous local police officers to use
arbitrary stops as way to ensnare illegal immigrants in the deportation web. Nor
should the administration let its zeal for immigration enforcement complicate
the jobs of local law enforcement, or impose new layers of fear and isolation on
immigrants.

Washington needs to find a way to allow cities like San Francisco and Washington
to enforce the law without turning into a branch of ICE.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                            October 17, 2010 Sunday
                              Late Edition - Final

For Some Immigrants, Voting Is a Criminal Act

BYLINE: By KIRK SEMPLE

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words


The way Joseph E. Joseph tells it, he was just doing his civic duty.

On his way home from work one evening in 1992, he came across a group of
volunteers in Brooklyn registering people to vote. Mr. Joseph, a legal permanent
resident who had immigrated from St. Kitts eight years earlier, decided it was
time to sign up. He cast a ballot in that year's presidential election, he said,
and in every one since.

His participation in American democracy came at a steep cost: The government is
now trying to deport him.

In the United States, only citizens are allowed to vote in national and
statewide elections. And while immigrants who are granted permanent residency --
a green card -- enjoy an array of privileges, including the right to work, they
can lose them all and be expelled from the country if the authorities discover
that they have even registered to vote.

Uncovering an immigrant's voting history is not always hard. Many proudly
acknowledge having voted when applying for American citizenship.

''I thought that was expected of me,'' said Mr. Joseph, who volunteered the
information on his citizenship application in 2008 and during his naturalization
interview in 2009. ''I felt like I was part of the democracy.''

Officials with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, which
processes immigrants' visas and naturalization petitions, say the agency does
not keep records of how many noncitizens have been caught violating voting laws.
Many election law experts said there was no evidence that the violations
happened frequently -- or at least enough to skew election results.

But for those who do register to vote and get caught, the penalties can be
severe. Lawyers at the Legal Aid Society, a nonprofit group for low-income New
Yorkers, said that they had handled at least eight cases in the past few years
involving permanent residents who faced deportation because they had registered
to vote. Noncitizens who are convicted in criminal court of having made a false
claim of citizenship for the purpose of registering to vote in a federal
election can be fined and imprisoned for up to a year, then deported.

Advocates for immigrants said that in most cases, those who violated the voting
law did so unwittingly.

''It really annoys me that they're just trying to do their civic duty for no
pecuniary gain at all, yet they wind up in removal proceedings,'' said Jeffrey
N. Brauwerman, a lawyer in Coral Gables, Fla., and a former immigration judge,
who has represented four immigrants that the government tried to deport for
registering to vote.

Some groups, including the Heritage Foundation, contend that illegal voting by
immigrants may be more widespread than anyone realizes. They say it
disenfranchises legal voters and warrants tougher enforcement.

In a 2008 report, Hans A. von Spakovsky, a senior legal fellow at the
foundation, wrote: ''Lax enforcement of election laws permits individuals who
have not entered the American social compact or made a commitment to the U.S.
Constitution, U.S. laws, and the U.S. cultural and political heritage to
participate in elections and potentially change the outcome of closely contested
races.''

No group appears to have made the issue a central cause this election season,
Mr. von Spakovsky said, but that could change if some results in crucial races
are close. ''That's when people will potentially pay attention,'' he said.

William G. Wright, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said
the agency did not provide ''specific information on voting rights'' when
granting green cards. But he pointed out that voter registration forms explain
that an applicant must be an American citizen.

Immigrants and their advocates, however, say there is widespread confusion, even
among native-born Americans, about who is allowed to vote. Volunteers, whether
working for political parties or nonpartisan causes, sometimes give incorrect
advice when registering new voters.

Confusing matters, permanent residents are permitted to vote in some
municipalities, though not in New York City. And elections officials around the
country do not customarily verify the citizenship of newly registered voters.
Arizona is the only state that requires proof of citizenship; Georgia passed a
similar law, which has not taken effect.

Mr. Joseph, 53, said that when he encountered the registration volunteers in
Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, in 1992, he told them he had a green card. ''They
said that if I'm paying taxes, I have a right to vote,'' he said.

He mailed his application to the city's Board of Elections and soon received a
voter registration card.

''I assume that every application should be checked out, and I assumed that if
there was something wrong, then I'd get a call,'' said Mr. Joseph, a welder at a
New Jersey construction company who has five children, three of them American
citizens by birth.

Under Citizenship and Immigration Services guidelines, a noncitizen's vote does
not always scuttle a bid for citizenship. The agency's officers are required to
evaluate the circumstances of the violation, as well as the ''moral character''
of the applicant, and decide whether the law has been intentionally violated.

In Mr. Joseph's case, the agency said that intent was irrelevant -- and rejected
his application. ''Whether or not making false claim of U.S. citizen was
intentional or not, you nonetheless voted in an election in violation of'' the
law, his rejection letter said. ''Therefore you failed to satisfy the good moral
character requirement under the law.''

The case was sent to Immigration and Customs Enforcement for deportation
proceedings, which Mr. Joseph is trying to stop.

His lawyer, Olivia Cassin, said she saw nothing in the agency's case file that
suggested officials had fully evaluated his character. ''He's a desirable
person, paid taxes, supported his children, committed zero crimes,'' said Ms.
Cassin, a staff lawyer with the Legal Aid Society.

Officials with Citizenship and Immigration Services said they were not permitted
to discuss the details of individual cases. ''Each case is complex, and the
decision in that case is based on our adjudicators looking at all the evidence
provided,'' said Chris Bentley, a spokesman with the agency.

But Ms. Cassin and other immigrant advocates said the agency was being too
strict. The advocates pointed out that, in some cases, immigration judges had
relied upon the same evidence to rule against deportation that immigration
officials had used to deny citizenship.

In eight New York cases that Ms. Cassin recalled, none of the immigrants were
deported, and all were able to maintain their permanent residency. In one, she
said, the client's application for naturalization was reopened and eventually
approved.

Mr. Joseph was supposed to have an immigration hearing last month, but the judge
postponed it until early next year. He said he now regrets signing that
registration form 18 years ago.

''I wish I could take it back,'' he said.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: LIMBO: Joseph E. Joseph, an immigrant from St. Kitts who first
voted in 1992, faces deportation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EIRINI VOURLOUMIS FOR THE NEW
YORK TIMES) (MB10)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                              Late Edition - Final

Mexican Guest Workers, Laid Off, Want BP's Help

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 697 words


NEW ORLEANS -- Soon after the oil from the Deepwater Horizon began gushing into
the Gulf of Mexico, business at the Ramada Plaza Beach Resort in Fort Walton
Beach, Fla., dried up -- and so did the jobs of five Mexican housekeepers who
were guest workers at the hotel under contracts guaranteeing them work until
Nov. 1.

''On June 30, they told us our jobs were over, and that we had to leave our
housing and go back to Mexico,'' Salvador Luna Espinoza, one of the
housekeepers, said in a telephone interview conducted with a translator. ''I'm
staying with friends now, but I don't know how long they'll put up with me.''

While thousands have lost their jobs as a result of the oil spill, the layoffs
present special hardships for guest workers, mostly hotel workers and those
working in shellfish processing.

Under their H-2B visas, they are allowed to work only for the employer who
arranged their visa, and they must leave the United States within 10 days of
losing their job.

Most took on debt of $1,000 or more to pay for the trip to the United States,
planning to pay it back with their earnings.

Mr. Luna Espinoza, who has a wife and five children at home in El Tizate,
Mexico, said that without the $7.75-an-hour hotel job, he had no hope of
repaying his debt -- and unless he could do so, no one would back him in
arranging another visa or another job.

So he is still in the United States, awaiting compensation.

''What they face is basically a guillotine the moment they're laid off,'' said
Saket Soni, executive director of the Alliance of Guestworkers for Dignity, a
grass-roots New Orleans organization that is helping the laid-off housekeepers,
and other guest workers laid off from a Baton Rouge seafood processor, file
claims with BP. ''We would like to see them treated not as disposable workers,
but as people who deserve relief in a disaster.''

In theory, guest workers have the same rights to compensation from BP as anyone
else who lost income due to the oil spill. But as a practical matter, getting
that compensation is far more difficult for workers from another county, who
speak little English and may not understand the claims process or have the
documentation from employers to file a claim.

With the help of Mr. Soni's alliance, Mr. Luna Espinoza filed a BP claim for
lost wages of $5,498.63, backed up by a letter from Ramada saying that his
layoff was due to the oil spill. He has not yet received compensation, though.
On July 9, the alliance filed a petition with the Labor Department, asking that
it issue a formal policy directing those in the spill zone who employ guest
workers to pay all the wages due under the contract, as well as the guest
workers' fare home.

''It shouldn't be on the guest workers' shoulders to bear the costs of the
spill,'' Mr. Soni said. ''The employers are in a much better position to get BP
to reimburse them.''

Indeed, guest workers are in a tenuous position, usually living in labor camps
or other housing run by their employers, with little connection to the
surrounding community, and little understanding of their legal rights. Many fear
retaliation from employers or immigration authorities if they make complaints.
And when their jobs end suddenly, many have no idea where to turn, and, like Mr.
Luna Espinoza, drift off to stay with someone from their home country.

The alliance petition said many guest workers would no longer be in the United
States when any compensation was issued. If BP does issue Mr. Luna Espinoza a
check, it will be sent to the alliance, since he has no fixed address.

At the Labor Department, a spokeswoman for Nancy Leppink, deputy administrator
of the Wage and Hour Division, would say only that the division would ''respond
appropriately'' to the alliance's petition.

At the Ramada, business is still depressed, said Joseph Guidry, the general
manager. Mr. Guidry declined to comment on the petition or the issue of
requiring employers to pay out the contract and then await reimbursement from
BP.

Mr. Luna Espinoza said he had been a guest worker before, working on a tobacco
farm in Virginia. So which did he prefer?

''It was much better in tobacco,'' he said. ''They had more hours of work for
me.''

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: August 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                              Late Edition - Final

Indictment Accuses Firm Of Exploiting Thai Workers

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 540 words


A federal grand jury in Honolulu has indicted six labor contractors from a Los
Angeles manpower company on charges that they imposed forced labor on some 400
Thai farm workers, in what justice officials called the biggest
human-trafficking case ever brought by federal authorities.

The charges, prepared by Justice Department civil rights lawyers, were brought
against the president, three executives and two Thai labor contractors from
Global Horizons Manpower, which recruits foreign farm workers for the federal
agricultural guest worker program, known as H-2A.

The indictment, which was unsealed Thursday in Hawaii, accuses Global Horizons
executives of working to ''obtain cheap, compliant labor'' from guest workers
who had been forced into debt in Thailand to pay fees to local recruiters. The
company, according to the indictment, sought to ''to compel the workers' labor
and service through threats to have them arrested, deported or sent back to
Thailand, knowing the workers could not pay off their debts if sent home.''

The number of workers who are said to be victims is the largest ever in a human
trafficking case, said Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman.

A woman who answered at the telephone listed for Global Horizons Manpower in Los
Angeles said the number no longer was used by the company. Numbers for the
company in Tampa, Fla., were disconnected.

Many events described in the indictment took place in 2004 and 2005, when Global
Horizons first brought hundreds of Thai workers to farms in Hawaii and
Washington State. But Chanchanit Martorell, executive director of the Thai
Community Development Center in Los Angeles, said the charges were the
culmination of years of pressure by that group. She said questions about Global
Horizons' management of the Thai laborers arose when one of them fled a work
crew in Hawaii in 2003, and found his way to Los Angeles and the center.

Since then, Ms. Martorell said, the center has identified 263 Thai guest workers
who were brought to the United States on legal temporary visas by Global
Horizons, but later fled what they described as oppressive conditions.

The indictment says recruiters in Thailand charged the workers -- who earned as
little as $1,000 a year farming in their home country -- as much as $21,000 to
obtain visas for the United States. Global Horizons did not disclose these fees
to United States labor officials, the charges state.

Workers who were dispatched to a pineapple farm in Maui and orchards in
Washington were paid far less than they had been promised, and were often housed
in shoddy conditions, according to the charges; Global Horizons impounded their
passports.

In recent weeks, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission has issued findings
against Global Horizons for civil rights violations, Ms. Martorell said. About
100 Thai workers have been granted residency visas for victims of human
trafficking.

Among those facing charges are Mordechai Yosef Orian, president of Global
Horizons, and Pranee Tubchumpol, director of international relations. Mr. Orian
surrendered in Honolulu on Friday and pleaded not guilty, The Associated Press
reported. Mr. Tubchumpol was detained in Los Angeles, said a spokesman for the
Honolulu prosecutor.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 188 DOCUMENTS


                               The New York Times

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday
                              Late Edition - Final

Forced Labor

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 524 words


A conspiracy indictment was brought last week against a Los Angeles company,
alleging forced labor on a chilling scale. Six contractors are accused of a
scheme to hold 400 workers from Thailand in virtual slavery on farms in Hawaii
and Washington State. The Justice Department says it is the largest
human-trafficking case ever brought by the federal government. Just as
disturbing is how familiar the accusations are.

The company, Global Horizons Manpower, is accused of abusing the federal guest
worker program, known as H-2A, in 2004 and 2005 and luring workers with false
promises of steady work at decent pay. The workers, poor men from the Thai
countryside, took on crushing debt to pay exorbitant recruiting fees, about
$9,500 to $21,000. After they arrived in America, according to the indictment,
their passports were taken and they were set up in shoddy housing and told that
if they complained or fled they would be fired, arrested or deported.

The case, brought in Honolulu, coincides with the sentencing on Thursday of two
Hawaii farmers, Mike and Alec Sou, who pleaded guilty in January to a
forced-labor scheme involving 44 Thai workers. The Sous worked with Global
Horizons before but are linked to the latest case only by the methods they
admitted to using.

In the abuse of legal foreign workers, the numbers vary but the methods are the
same. It is slavery without shackles. Its perpetrators seldom have to resort to
violence or even threats of violence. Since workers are buried in debt before
they even leave their home countries, the threat of being fired and deported is
enough.

To lose a guest-worker job means irreparable harm: destitution, unpayable debt,
the loss of mortgaged family land. Under those conditions, a worker will accept
any abuse, live and work in squalor and do what he is told. Everyone else -- the
middlemen; the companies that get ''cheap, compliant labor,'' in the words of
the Global Horizons indictment; and the grocery buyers who eat cheap, fresh
produce, subsidized by suffering -- is satisfied.

American history is full of examples of large-scale abuses of farmworkers, from
the Bracero program for Mexicans in the 1940s to the present day. The Bush
administration, which was in charge of the H-2A program at the time Global
Horizons is accused of doing its worst, generally turned a blind eye to
wage-and-hour enforcement. In its waning days, it issued new rules that gutted
worker pay and labor protections in the program.

The Obama administration has taken a somewhat stronger line in protecting
workers. Labor Secretary Hilda Solis overturned the Bush-era H-2A rules changes
and started programs to help low-wage workers know their rights and report
abuses. The government has been issuing special visas to workers who were
victims of trafficking, notably in the case of Indian workers exploited in
Mississippi shipyards after Hurricane Katrina.

But a vast enforcement gap persists. A bill that would strengthen immigrant
guest workers' rights languishes with the rest of immigration reform. Thousands
in the undocumented work force toil unprotected. The Global Horizons case is
only the beginning.

URL: http://www.nytimes.com

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company
