
                               1 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 22, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL CONFEREES REACH A MAJOR COMPROMISE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 896 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21


House and Senate negotiators, trying to resolve differences on immigration
legislation, today approved a major compromise that would make it easier for
farmers to import foreign workers. The action virtually assures that the
conferees can agree on a comprehensive immigration bill.

By a vote of 16 to 9, the House negotiators agreed to accept the compromise on
temporary foreign workers proposed by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, the chief negotiator on behalf of the Senate.

Supporters and opponents of the legislation said that acceptance of the
compromise substantially improved the prospects for a successful House- Senate
conference and for final passage of the legislation. The question of temporary
foreign workers was the most divisive issue in the bill, pitting organized labor
against agricultural interests.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the
conference, said the negotiators would meet again Monday. At that time, they may
be able to finish work on the legislation, which would have to be approved by
both houses of Congress and go to the President before it could become law.

Opponents Plan Strategy

Opponents of the legislation were already planning strategy to block or defeat
the bill on the floor of the House, where the original legislation was passed in
June by a five-vote margin. Congress is scheduled to adjourn Oct. 4 or 5.

Senator Simpson said he expected President Reagan to sign the bill if it got to
his desk, because the conferees had kept the costs within limits specified by
the White House. The bill, as shaped in six days of negotiations, would
establish fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly hired illegal
aliens and would offer legal status to several million aliens who illegally
entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1981.

The conferees today abandoned a provision of the House-passed bill that would
have created a program allowing farmers to import aliens for up to 11 months a
year to harvest perishable fruits and vegetables. The Senate bill would have
made it easier for farmers to import workers but it did not create a special
program for producers of perishable crops.

The compromise would liberalize the existing law that governs issuance of visas
to foreign workers. It would allow an alien worker to have a contract with a
specific employer or association of agricultural producers. The employer would
first have to try to recruit workers in this country. The State Department would
not issue a visa unless the farmer filed a petition with the Labor Department
asserting that the use of aliens ''will not adversely affect the wages and
working conditions'' of domestic workers.

In cases where farmers had a ''critical need,'' the Secretary of Labor would
have to rule on their petitions within 72 hours and could waive the requirement
for recruiting domestic workers.

Unions Say Protections Weakened

Supporters of the compromise said it retained most of the labor standards and
safeguards in current law, but labor unions said it weakened protections for
workers.

The foreign worker program in the House bill was designed by Representatives
Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California, and Sid Morrison, Republican of
Washington, both of whom supported the compromise offered by Senator Simpson.

Mr. Panetta said: ''This is not a good compromise if you are opposed to the
bill, if you want no bill so you can continue to exploit illegal aliens. There
are no regulations, no safeguards, no rights now.'' Referring to the situation
of illegal aliens, Mr. Panetta said: ''There is slavery right now with nothing
to protect these people. I want a bill because I want an end to the abuse and
exploitation of illegal aliens.''

The conferees broke another deadlock today by voting to authorize Federal
payments of $1 billion a year to cover the costs of providing health, education
and other social-service benefits to illegal aliens who obtain legal status
under the bill. The vote among the House conferees was 19 to 7. The newly legal
aliens would be ineligible for food stamps and the main Federal welfare program,
but could receive school meals, job training and maternal and child health
services subsidized by the Federal Government.

Momentum Is Regained

With today's action, supporters of the bill regained momentum they had lost in
the last two days.

Patrick H. Quinn, executive vice president of the National Council of
Agricultural Employers, a trade association, said, ''The compromise is a
significant improvement over existing law and will accommodate the needs of East
Coast growers, but it falls far short of meeting the needs of Western
agriculture and will be unacceptable to large numbers of West Coast growers.''

Dolores C. Huerta, vice president of the United Farm Workers of America, said
the compromise adopted today would have ''a disastrous effect on farm workers.''
She predicted that many employers would be unwilling to sign contracts with her
union because they could import foreign workers at lower wages with fewer fringe
benefits.

However, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, chief sponsor
of the House bill, said the compromise ''represents a good-faith effort to
accommodate the competing interests of agricultural labor and growers.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Romano Mazzoli, Peter Rodino and Alan Simpson

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               2 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 8, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL IS HARDLY HOME FREE

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 979 words


ROBERT PEAR

WASHINGTON - Once again last week there was a flurry of activity over
immigration legislation, which has passed the Senate and seems to have a better
than even chance of reaching the floor of the House.

Immigration has always aroused strong passions among a wide range of interests
including labor unions, business organizations, farmers, religious groups and
Hispanic Americans. But in an election year, when voters choose 435 House
members as well as a President, the passions are perhaps stronger than usual.
Republicans, eager for swift floor action, accuse Democrats of delaying it for
reasons related to partisan politics.

The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., after blocking action on the
bill last year at the behest of Hispanic lawmakers, was excoriated by
Republicans, who demanded that he ''free'' the immigration legislation. Mr.
O'Neill is now putting pressure on other House leaders to move the bill to the
floor. Aides to the Speaker said he wanted to let the House ''work its will,''
even though a full-blown debate would almost certainly be the occasion for
bitter strife among Democrats. ''There will be a lot of blood spilled,'' said
Garner J. Cline, staff director of the House Judiciary Committee, ''and
unfortunately it's all Democratic blood.''

The basic bill, as approved by the House Judiciary Committee last May, would
outlaw the hiring of illegal aliens while offering legal status to those who
entered the United States illegally before Jan. 1, 1982. In this respect, it is
more liberal than the Senate-passed bill, which would grant permanent residence
to those who arrived before 1977 and temporary resident status to those who came
later, but prior to 1980.

The Reagan Administration supports the bill, sponsored by Representative Romano
L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. The push for such legislation has been a
bipartisan effort, led in the Senate by Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican.
The basic argument for the measure is that it would permit the nation to regain
control of its borders. Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican,
notes that ''apprehensions of illegal aliens at the United States-Mexico border
exceeded the one million mark for the first time in our history in the fiscal
year ending Sept. 30, 1983.'' The Simpson-Mazzoli legislation seeks to cut off
the supply of jobs that are presumed to be the principal attraction for illegal
aliens.  The fight over immigration legislation by outside lobbyists is mirrored
within the House itself, where several committees have proposed major amendments
to the Mazzoli bill. The Agriculture Committee, for one, reflecting the concerns
of farmers who grow perishable fruits and vegetables, would establish a
guest-worker program. The Education and Labor Committee, more sensitive to the
pleas of union lobbyists, would raise labor standards and add statutory
protections to prevent any adverse effect on domestic workers.

Some Hispanic organizations and Hispanic lawmakers, tired of being denounced as
obstructionists, have recently come up with their own proposal, sponsored by
Representative Edward R. Roybal, a California Democrat. It omits the
guest-worker program and the penalties on employers for hiring illegal aliens.
But it would authorize stricter enforcement of existing labor laws, would
increase the budget of the Border Patrol and would, like the Mazzoli bill, offer
legal status to illegal aliens who arrived before 1982.

Hopes for CompromiseThe House Rules Committee, which serves as a kind of
gatekeeper, deciding what bills go to the floor and under what conditions, began
to sort through all these proposals last week. It heard testimony from 25
members of Congress and plans to hear from at least 20 more this week, an
unusually large number. Committee members hoped they could avoid a messy floor
fight by inducing the witnesses to negotiate some compromises before the bill
reaches the floor. In a post- election session in 1982, a similar bill died on
the House floor as opponents staged a ''filibuster by amendment.'' It was, said
Mr. Mazzoli, ''the search for perfection, the futile, quixotic search for
perfection'' that killed the bill then.

The Rules Committee may be able to avoid a repetition of that experience by
restricting the number of amendments that can be offered. If the House is
allowed to work its will, the best guess of many Congressional aides and
lobbyists is that the House would approve an expansion of the temporary foreign
worker program, reject proposals for stronger safeguards against discrimination
and adopt stricter criteria for the amnesty program, moving the eligibility date
back to 1981 or 1980, as in the Senate bill.

Mr. Simpson, Mr. Mazzoli and other key lawmakers could probably reconcile
differences between Senate and House bills if given an opportunity to do so. But
the legislation could get tied up in election-year politics. Walter F. Mondale,
Gary Hart and the Rev. Jesse Jackson have all stated their opposition to the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill. If it comes to the floor of the House in May or June, just
as Texas is holding caucuses and California prepares for its Presidential
primary, the Democratic candidates might try to outdo each other in their
efforts to block action on the bill.

If Congress fails again to pass a comprehensive immigration bill, Federal
authorities might step up enforcement of existing laws, both at the border and
inside the country. Congress could enact separate bills to deal with specific
problems, such as the claims of 7,200 Haitians and more than 100,000 Cubans who
came to the United States in 1980. A large influx of illegal aliens, prompted
perhaps by further turmoil in Central America, could intensify the pressure on
Congress to restrict all immigration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               3 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Staring at Immigration

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 692 words


''I am committed,'' said House Speaker O'Neill last month, to bringing the
Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill to the floor right after the California
primary. This is the day after the California primary and, despite past wobbles,
Mr. O'Neill now looks to be as good as his word.

The House Rules Committee may clear the bill by Friday, and it's quite possible
that next week the House can do what the Senate has already done twice, by fat
margins: vote to put America back in charge of its own borders. After delays
dating back to Christmas Eve 1982, the case for immigration reform can finally
be made on the merits.

The merits are substantial, despite all the dust recently thrown up by some
Hispanic leaders and by the Democratic primary campaign. Indeed, the striking
thing about the debate over Simpson-Mazzoli is the weakness of the arguments
against it.

The bill tackles two problems - how to control the illegal aliens flooding into
the country and how to relieve the exploitation suffered by illegals already
here. As to control, the bill shrewdly aims at the economic magnet: jobs.
Simpson-Mazzoli would finally make it illegal for employers to hire illegal
aliens.

As to exploitation, the bill would legalize aliens who have been in this country
for some time. There are a million or more, often so afraid of being caught that
they won't call the cops when victimized by crime. Even so, the idea of giving
them amnesty excited heated criticism in the recent Texas Democratic primary.


It's not hard to recognize a political bargain here: the justice of enhanced
enforcement is balanced with the mercy of amnesty. What's hard to understand is
the arguments against the Simpson- Mazzoli proposal. There are three main ones:

B Big Brother. If employers are to turn down illegal aliens, legal job-seekers
must be given a way to identify themselves. That means degrading national
identity cards or dehumanizing numbers for everybody.

The bill leaves the method of identification to be determined, but a likely way
is for people to give their Social Security numbers - as Americans have been
doing for decades. Many people not only have a national number but also
willingly pay $35 a year to a credit card company for it. They don't object when
clerks check out the number to verify credit. The only freedom that would be
lost by this system of identification is the freedom to use a forged Social
Security card.  B Hiring discrimination against Hispanics. If employers fear
being punished for hiring illegal Hispanics, they'll err on the side of safety
and refuse to hire anyone who looks Hispanic. That argument makes sense in the
abstract. But growers and other employers do not live in the abstract; in their
real world, low-skilled labor is already short. If the illegal tide were
curtailed, workers would be even harder to find. That being so, why would any
employer become more finicky?  B Enforcement discrimination against Hispanics.
Creating sanctions against employers will increase the likelihood of ugly
Federal raids. Says Gov. Toney Anaya of New Mexico: ''If we have sanctions, I
can assure you that it will only be those of us who look foreign or sound
foreign who will be caught up in the raids and have to prove that we're from
here.'' On reflection, the likely result would be quite the reverse. The
Immigration Service can make raids now. If employer sanctions were in place, it
could for the first time calmly examine personnel files instead of rudely
rounding up people. In any case, what of the painful, indisputable
discrimination inflicted on all those illegal aliens? By creating an amnesty,
Simpson-Mazzoli would bring them out of the shadows.  Hispanic leaders can be
forgiven for wanting to have the bargain go all one way, for wanting more
amnesty and less enforcement. But if the Simpson- Mazzoli bill should fail, they
will need to examine their responsibility for what comes next. As the Democrats'
experience in the Texas primary suggests, many Americans are veering toward
quite a different bargain: no amnesty and more, much more, enforcement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               4 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 12, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

DEBATE ABOUT IMMIGRATION CHANGES IN BRIEF

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


Following is a summary of major provisions of the immigration bill considered by
the House of Representatives:

Employer sanctions - The bill would authorize civil and criminal penalties for
employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. For the first offense, the
Government would issue a warning. For subsequent offenses, the employer would be
subject to fines of $1,000 and then $2,000 for each illegal alien. The maximum
penalty would be one year in prison and a $3,000 fine for each illegal alien
hired. The Justice Department could also ask a Federal District Court to issue
an injunction to stop a ''pattern or practice'' of hiring illegal aliens.

Identification - Once cited for a violation, an employer would have to ask all
job applicants for documents, such as a passport or a birth certificate and
driver's license, to confirm that they were either citizens or aliens authorized
to work in the United States. An employer establishes an ''affirmative defense''
for himself by following these procedures and is not required to check the
authenticity of the documents.

The bill says it does not authorize use of ''national identification cards.'' It
would increase penalties for the use of false identification documents. Within
three years, the President would have to report to Congress on steps that might
be needed to establish ''a secure system to determine employment eligibility.''
He would have to consider, as one possibility, a telephone call-in system
similar to the one used by retail stores to get approval for a customer's credit
card transactions.

Amnesty - Illegal aliens who have resided continuously in the United States
since Jan. 1, 1982, may qualify for legal status as permanent resident aliens.
For five years after obtaining legal status, they would be ineligible for
Medicaid, food stamps and other Federal benefits, with some limited exceptions.
The Federal Government could reimburse state and local agencies for the cost of
providing public assistance to such aliens if Congress made the money available.


Adjudication procedures - The bill establishes new procedures for handling
asylum and deportation cases. The Government could more quickly expel aliens who
did not have the necessary documents or ''any reasonable basis for legal entry
into the United States.''

Temporary foreign workers - The bill makes it easier for employers to bring
aliens into the country for seasonal work harvesting fruit and vegetables. The
bill does not set a quota, but growers say it could lead to an increase in the
number of aliens admitted legally as temporary foreign workers. The number of
alien farm workers admitted under the program, now about 20,000 a year, could
rise to 200,000 or 300,000. The Labor Department would have to certify that the
use of aliens ''will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions'' of
domestic workers.

Cost - Estimates vary greatly, but the Congressional Budget Office has estimated
that the bill would cost $8.6 billion over five years. That includes the cost of
additional staff for the Justice Department and $35 million for use by the
Border Patrol if the President declared an ''immigration emergency.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               5 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 12, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS ON THE STATUS OF ALIENS

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 476 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


Following is a list of events that preceded today's debate on a comprehensive
immigration bill:



Aug. 4, 1977: President Carter asks Congress to prohibit the hiring of illegal
aliens and to give legal status to illegal aliens living here since 1970.

October 1978: Congress establishes the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy, which included eight members of Congress and four members of
President Carter's Cabinet.

April 1980: Cuba allows the first of 125,000 ''boat people'' to sail for
Florida, heightening concern in the United States about illegal immigration.

Feb. 26, 1981: Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, headed by
the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, recommends a one-time amnesty for most illegal
aliens, penalties for employers who hire illegal aliens and a ''modest
increase'' in legal immigration.

July 30, 1981: The Reagan Administration announces its immigration proposals,
which resemble the Hesburgh commission's recommendations.

March 17, 1982: Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, introduce a
comprehensive immigration bill incorporating many proposals of the Hesburgh
commission.

Aug. 17, 1982: Senate approves the bill by a vote of 80 to 19.

Dec. 18, 1982: Immigration bill dies on the floor of the House as time runs out
with nearly 300 amendments pending.

May 5, 1983: Starting over again in a new Congress, the House Judiciary
Committee approves the immigration bill by a vote of 20 to 9.

May 18, 1983: The Senate, by vote of 76 to 18, approves the Simpson-Mazzoli bill
again.

June 1983: Three House committees (Agriculture, Education and Labor, and Energy
and Commerce) propose amendments to the bill.

Oct. 4, 1983: Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Speaker of the House, blocks action on the
immigration bill for the rest of 1983, saying he can find ''no constituency''
for the bill.

Oct. 19, 1983: President Reagan, at a news conference, reaffirms support for
immigration legislation.

Nov. 22, 1983: Speaker O'Neill reverses himself and says he will bring the bill
to the floor soon after Congress reconvenes in January.

Jan. 13, 1984: David A. Stockman, director of the Office of Management and
Budget, expresses concern about the cost of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.

Feb. 22, 1984: Representative Edward R. Roybal, a California Democrat, with
support of Hispanic groups, introduces an alternative to the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill.

May 2, 1984: Speaker O'Neill postpones action on the Simpson-Mazzoli bill until
after the California Democratic primary June 5. Walter F. Mondale had asked for
such a delay.

June 8, 1984: The House Rules Committee clears the way for debate on the
immigration bill and 69 amendments.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: CHRONOLOGY

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               6 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 25, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION MOVE HARD TO ENFORCE, SPECIALISTS ASSERT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1641 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24


Enforcement of comprehensive immigration legislation in Congress would present a
huge challenge to the already overburdened Immigration and Naturalization
Service, according to many specialists in the field.

Alan C. Nelson, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said the
agency was prepared to enforce provisions of

the legislation, approved in different forms by both houses of Congress,
forbidding employment of illegal aliens.

Few people outside the agency expressed such confidence, although several
immigration lawyers said management of the agency had improved noticeably under
Mr. Nelson's leadership.



Volume of Work Cited


Sam Bernsen, a lawyer who worked at the immigration agency for 35 years in
various capacities, including general counsel and Assistant Commissioner, said:
''The Immigration and Naturalization Service is hardly able to carry out its
responsibilities under present law. This legislation would lead to a mammoth,
unprecedented increase in the volume of work. I do not think I.N.S. is up to the
challenge with the present level of manpower. A token increase in manpower would
not make it possible to do the job.''

Mr. Nelson said that ''additional resources will be necessary to carry out the
legislation,'' but he declined to say how much was needed. ''The vast majority
of American employers,'' he said, ''will want to comply and will voluntarily
carry out the law.''



Role of Government


Even a modest enforcement effort could significantly expand the role of the
Federal Government in private industry. The Reagan Administration has
consistently tried to limit or reduce the role of Government, but strongly
supports the immigration bill saying it is the only feasible way for the nation
to regain control of its borders.

The House approved the legislation Wednesday by a vote of 216 to 211. The Senate
approved a similar bill by a vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983. The two houses are
expected to appoint a conference committee to resolve their differences. The
legislation is known by the names of its chief sponsors, Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat
of Kentucky.



New Forms for Employers


Under both versions of the bill, each employer and job applicant would have to
fill out Federal forms stating that the prospective employee was a citizen or
alien authorized to work in the United States. The employer would have to retain
the forms and make them available for inspection by officers of the immigration
service or the Labor Department.

Federal officials said they would focus initially on businesses and farmers with
a history of employing illegal aliens. The immigration service has automated
many of its files and last month awarded a $60 million contract for computer
equipment including more than 8,000 terminals. Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the
agency, said the computer system would probably store ''intelligence
information'' on employers such as the number of employees, violations of
immigration law, news articles and Labor Department data on companies.

Under present law, it is generally not illegal for an employer to hire an
illegal alien, although the alien may be deported if he is caught. There is a
law that forbids farm labor contractors to recruit or employ illegal aliens, and
some contractors have been convicted. But still, according to Representative
George Miller, Democrat of California, labor contractors are ''among the largest
suppliers of illegal aliens into this country.''

Several immigration lawyers and experts said that the conclusion of a 1980
report by the General Accounting Office, an investigative arm of Congress, was
still valid. ''The Immigration and Naturalization Service has not been able to
adequately enforce immigration laws and the prospects for its doing so are
dim,'' the study said.

Other Countries Examined


Another report by the accounting office, in 1982, examined the experience of 19
foreign countries and concluded that employer sanctions were generally ''not an
effective deterrent.'' The laws were not vigorously enforced, in part because of
government personnel shortages, and employers were ''penalized too little'' to
deter the use of illegal alien workers, the study said.

Representative Dan Lungren of California, a leading Republican supporter of the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill, said that ''employer sanctions have proven highly
successful in Hong Kong'' and that they were working in some European countries
that had recently strengthened enforcement.

The United States immigration service normally receives 1.9 million applications
and petitions for benefits and services each year, according to Janet R. Graham,
a spokesman for the agency. The agency has a backlog of 150,000 asylum
applications, including about 116,000 from Cubans who arrived in 1980.
Immigration service records indicate that as of May 1 the agency had a backlog
of 175,000 naturalization and citizenship certificate cases.

Permanent resident aliens seeking naturalization had to wait as long as 14
months to be interviewed after filing applications at offices in Brooklyn, Los
Angeles and Harlingen, Tex. However, Miss Graham said the average wait
nationally was eight months. She said Federal courts were partially responsible
for the delays, since judges sometimes failed to act on cases that were ready.

The Government says it expects perhaps 2 million illegal aliens to apply for
legal status if the Simpson-Mazzoli bill becomes law. Under the House bill, an
alien could qualify after showing that he had entered the United States before
Jan. 1, 1982, and resided here continuously since that date. In the Senate bill,
the eligibility cutoff date is Jan. 1, 1980.

Three Years of Planning


Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the immigration service, said today: ''We have been
planning since 1981 to implement this legislation. We are confident we can do
the job. We are ready. We will start with an education program to inform
employers about the new system of employer sanctions.''

Commissioner Nelson said the immigration service had prepared draft regulations
for the employer sanctions program, budget estimates and draft guidelines for
its enforcement personnel in field offices across the country.

Immigration officials said they would probably need to increase their staff of
800 investigators.

Edwin L. Dale Jr., a spokesman for the Office of Management and Budget, said,
''It has always been known that there would be incremental costs in enforcing
the law, that additional resources would be required, and we are ready to
provide them.''

It is not clear how the Government would enforce the requirement for
''continuous'' residence. Nor is it clear how officials would monitor compliance
with a section of the House bill that says aliens seeking permanent resident
status must be ''satisfactorily pursuing a course of study'' in the English
language.

Intentions at Issue


Representative William J. Hughes, a former prosecutor in New Jersey, said he did
not think the Administration and Congress were ''really serious'' about
enforcing the present immigration law or the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.

Mr. Hughes, a Democrat, said the Government might have to evaluate millions of
applications for legal status under the amnesty provisions. But he said, ''We
have not provided enough resources to even provide the basic services that are
needed for the people in this country today under the routine immigration and
naturalization procedure.''

In its budget for the fiscal year 1985, which starts Oct. 1, the Reagan
Administration requested $574.5 million for the immigration service, an increase
of 12.5 percent over the agency's 1984 budget. The request would pay for 850
additional Border Patrol officers, bringing the total authorized number to
3,100.

The House Appropriations Committee recommended $591 million for the agency. The
House trimmed this amount last month when it approved a 4 percent cutback in
spending levels recommended for numerous law-enforcement agencies. Many members
of Congress who had supported that cutback spoke forcefully about the need to
curtail the flow of illegal aliens when the House took up the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill this month.

Fradulent Documents a Problem


Leonel J. Castillo, who served as Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization
under President Carter, said, ''It is going to be extremely difficult to enforce
employer sanctions.'' Mr. Castillo is a member of an advisory committee on
immigration policy appointed by Gov. Mark White of Texas, a Democrat. Mr.
Castillo said that fraudulent documents posed a threat to the effectiveness of
employer sanctions.

Under the bill, an employer could establish a legal defense for himself if he
examined two identification documents presented by a job applicant. One
acceptable combination consists of a driver's license and either a Social
Security card or a birth certificate. Mr. Castillo said that Social Security
cards and birth certificates were often forged, and that almost any adult could
get a driver's license in Texas.

Ronald Ackerman, executive vice president of the National I.N.S. Council, a
union representing more than 6,000 employees, said, ''We don't think the agency
is prepared for anything that the bill will require, either enforcing sanctions
or giving out benefits.'' Under the House bill, an employer could demand a
hearing in front of an admininistrative law judge before the Government could
impose a civil penalty or even issue a citation, or warning, for a violation.

Mr. Ackerman said: ''We don't think the immigration service has enough judges to
administer the employer sanctions. They don't have enough judges to handle
deportations now.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Alan Nelson (page B10)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               7 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SUPREME COURT ROUNDUP;
JUSTICES DECLARE ILLEGAL ALIENS ARE PROTECTED BY LABOR LAW

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 846 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25


The Supreme Court ruled today that illegal aliens are entitled to the
protections of Federal labor law.

By a vote of 7 to 2, the Court ruled that it is an unfair labor practice for an
employer to report illegal aliens to the Immigration and Naturalization Service
in retaliation against the aliens' efforts to organize a union.

The decision, written by Associate Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, upheld the key
portion of a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh
Circuit, in Chicago. That court, in turn, had upheld a longstanding policy of
the National Labor Relations Board that aliens, regardless of their status under
the immigration laws, are ''employees'' with all the rights of any other
employees under the National Labor Relations Act.

But the High Court's decision may have a short life if the immigration bill that
the House of Representatives passed last week becomes law. Central to the
Court's reasoning today was the fact that under current law, it is not illegal
to hire an illegal alien. ''Counterintuitive though it may be,'' Justice
O'Connor said, there is therefore ''no reason to conclude'' that a labor policy
of protecting illegal aliens conflicts with an immigration policy designed to
keep them out of the country.

Proposed Change in Law


Both the House and Senate versions of the new immigration bill make it illegal
to employ illegal aliens, a change that might well lead the Court to reach a
different conclusion.

In the case before the Court, the labor board found the owner of a Chicago
leather-processing company guilty of an unfair labor practice for asking the
Immigration and Naturalization Service to check on the immigration status of his
employees. The owner knew that almost his entire work force was composed of
illegal aliens from Mexico, but notified the authorities only after the
employees voted to join a union.

Federal immigration agents arrested the workers, who accepted voluntary
departure as a substitute for deportation.

The company, Sure-Tan Inc., argued in its Supreme Court appeal that the aliens'
''own illegal status,'' and not the company's action, was responsible for their
fate, and that in any event the company's behavior was protected by its ''First
Amendment right to petition the Government.''

The Court today rejected those arguments. Justice O'Connor said that while
reporting a violation of the law ''ordinarily should be encouraged,'' it was an
unfair labor practice when motivated by ''anti-union animus.''

However, the Court overturned the penalty that the Court of Appeals had imposed
on the company. The appeals court required the company to give each employee six
months' back pay, as well as a reinstatement offer that would remain valid for
four years.

Justice O'Connor said there was no evidence to support the back pay award or the
prolonged reinstatement period. The Court sent the case back to the labor board
for an ''appropriate'' remedy, noting that any reinstatement offer had to be
conditioned on the employees' legal re-entry into the country.

The vote in Sure-Tan v. N.L.R.B., No. 82-945, was divided. Associate Justices
Lewis F. Powell Jr. and William H. Rehnquist dissented from the conclusion that
Federal labor law covered illegal aliens, making the vote on that issue 7-to-2.
But they joined the majority on the remedy question, from which four other
Justices dissented. Those dissenting were Justices William J. Brennan Jr.,
Thurgood Marshall, Harry A. Blackmun and John Paul Stevens. The vote on the
remedy was therefore 5 to 4.

The Court also dealt with these matters today:

ImmunityThe Court unanimously ruled that public defenders are not immune from
lawsuits by their clients on charges of conspiring with state officials to
secure a conviction. The ruling, which affirmed a decision by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, was a narrow one. It applied only to
damage suits for ''intentional misconduct,'' as opposed to ordinary legal
malpractice, and only to allegations that the lawyer had been part of a
conspiracy with state officials. (Tower v. Glover, No. 82-1988).


DiscriminationThe Justices ruled, 8 to 0, that an employee may sue an employer
for discrimination on the basis of race or sex, even if the employer prevailed
in a previous class action lawsuit that raised similar allegations. The United
States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit had barred plaintiffs who had
been part of a class action suit against the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
from later pursuing individual claims of discrimination against the bank. But
the High Court ruled that just because the bank had not engaged in
discrimination against a whole group did not mean it had not discriminated
against particular individuals. (Cooper v. Federal Reserve, No. 83-185).

Affirmative Action

The Court refused to hear a challenge by the teachers' union in Buffalo to a
Federal appeals court order that to some degree overrode seniority in both
layoffs and hiring. (Buffalo Teachers v. Arthur, No. 83-665).


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               8 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 14, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CONFEREES AGREE ON SANCTIONS IN IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 13


House and Senate conferees began negotiations today on a comprehensive
immigration bill and promptly agreed to authorize punishment for employers who
knowingly hire illegal aliens.

The voice vote approving penalties for such employers followed a half- hour of
impassioned debate in which opponents of the bill warned that its prohibition on
employment of illegal aliens could lead to an increase in job discrimination
against Hispanic Americans.

''The employer sanctions provision makes this legislation unacceptable,'' said
Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. Representative Edward R.
Roybal, Democrat of California, asserted that the new penalties would adversely
affect Asian-Americans as well as United States citizens of Hispanic descent.

But Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican who was chief sponsor of the
Senate bill, said the question of employer sanctions was not really subject to
debate in the conference because such penalties were contained in both the
Senate and House bills.

The Senate approved its version of the legislation, 76 to 18, in May 1983. The
House of Representatives passed its version, 216 to 211, in June this year. The
purpose of the conference is to iron out scores of major and minor differences
between the two versions.

First Conference Meeting


The conferees met today for the first time, in the hearing room of the House
Judiciary Committee. Twenty-nine of the conferees come from the House and seven
come from the Senate. Twenty- three are Democrats and 13 are Republicans.

Any agreement reached by the conferees would go first to the House and then to
the Senate for approval. If both chambers approved the legislation in the same
form, it would be be presented to President Reagan for his approval.

The House and Senate bills would both outlaw the hiring of illegal aliens, but
they established different systems of penalties, with no criminal sanctions in
the House bill. The conferees adopted a compromise between the two versions, but
have not yet drafted the precise legislative language.

Under the compromise, there would be an education period for six months after
the bill became law. During that period, employers would not be punished for
hiring illegal aliens. In the next two years, an employer would receive a
citation or warning if he hired illegal aliens.

Then, after this transition period totaling two and a half years, employers
would be subject to the full range of penalties established by the bill. The
employer would be subject to a $1,000 civil penalty for each illegal alien hired
on the first offense and a $2,000 penalty for each illegal alien hired on the
second offense.

The conferees agreed to a Senate provision that would establish criminal
penalties of six months in prison and a $1,000 fine for an employer who engaged
in a ''pattern or practice'' of violations.

However, at any time, the Justice Department could go to court and seek an
injunction to halt flagrant violations, the conferees said.

The compromise on this issue was proposed by Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the House bill.

The vote on this issue was noteworthy because, as Mr. Roybal said, ''employer
sanctions are the heart of the bill.''

Under the conference agreement, employers would have to ask all job applicants
for identification documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens
authorized to work in the United States. But the conferees accepted a House
provision stating that nothing in the bill ''shall be construed to authorize,
directly or indirectly, the issuance or use of national identification cards or
the establishment or administration of a national identification card or
system.''

One of the most contentious issues related to employer sanctions was whether the
penalties should apply to small employers. The House in June adopted an
amendment exempting employers with three or fewer employees. But the House
conferees did not insist on this amendment today and agreed to the Senate
provision, which forbids even small employers from hiring illegal aliens.

Exemption is Assailed

Senator Simpson said the House amendment, proposed by Representative Sam B. Hall
Jr., Democrat of Texas, was ''one of the most outrageous exemptions in the
bill.'' He said it would benefit affluent people who employed an illegal alien
as a maid or a gardener.

Mr. Hall said: ''We must show some degree of understanding and not make this
apply to every single human being in the United States. We should not make it
such a heavy-handed piece of legislation.''

Democrats and Republicans alike expressed caution as they went into the
conference. Neither party wants to be accused of stalling the bill, they said,
but both want to preserve an escape route permitting them to deny responsibility
if the conference report proves unpalatable to voters in this election year.

The Reagan Administration has supported the Senate bill as a way to halt the
flow of illegal aliens into the United States. The Democratic Presidential
nominee, Walter F. Mondale, and his running mate, Geraldine A. Ferraro, have
spoken out against the Senate and House bills on the ground that they would
adversely affect Hispanic Americans and other ethnic minorities.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of members of House and Senate Conference

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                               9 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. PLANS TO EASE ALIEN LABOR RULES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR , Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 833 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 26


The Immigration and Naturalization Service is preparing new rules that would
make it much easier for farmers to bring foreign workers into the United States
temporarily to pick fruit and vegetables.

The rules would also discourage farmers from hiring illegal aliens. The Western
Growers Association, which represents growers and shippers of fresh fruit and
vegetables in California and Arizona, estimates that as many as 300,000 illegal
aliens are employed in Western agriculture.

The proposals would fundamentally change the temporary foreign worker program,
under which 15,000 to 20,000 aliens enter the United States legally each year to
do agricultural work.

Most of them pick apples or cut sugar cane in states along the East Coast. In
recent years some have picked citrus in Arizona and vegetables in Colorado. But
farmers in California and most other Western states have made little use of the
program. They say the Government does not approve petitions fast enough to meet
their needs for harvesting more perishable crops such as peaches and melons.

The content of the new rules was ascertained from confidential Government
documents describing the proposals and from interviews with senior officials of
the Agriculture Department and the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said the aim was
to make the temporary worker program ''more available and usable to more
growers, so they will use legal, rather than illegal, aliens.''

Members of Congress from farm states tried to make similar changes as part of
sweeping immigration legislation last year but were vigorously opposed by
Hispanic groups and organized labor. The legislation died last fall.

Immigration officials said they hoped to keep the issue out of the ''legislative
arena'' by addressing it through regulations.

Mr. Nelson said the revised rules ''would not pre-empt and might facilitate
legislation'' on immigration that may be introduced this year.

Greg J. Leo, a spokesman for the immigration service, said that the proposed
rules would be published in the Federal Register and that people would have an
opportunity to comment on them. After considering the comments, the immigration
service could issue final rules, with the force of law.

The admission of temporary foreign workers is one of the most contentious issues
related to immigration. It provokes intense dispute between agricultural
employers, who say they cannot find enough United States citizens to pick their
crops, and farm worker unions, which say the use of alien labor has depressed
wages and worsened working conditions.

Under the existing rules, an employer who wants to bring in temporary foreign
workers must apply to the immigration service.  The employer must show the Labor
Department that ''qualified persons in the United States are not available'' for
the job and that employment of aliens would not adversely affect the wages or
working conditions of ''similarly employed U.S. workers.''

Neither the immigration law nor the regulations limit the number of temporary
foreign workers who may be admitted. Immigration officials said the new rules
could substantially increase the number workers but they could not give any
figures.

Documents prepared by the Immigration and Naturalization Service show that the
new rules would include changes:


- Farmers would not have to make an extensive search for American workers if the
Agriculture Department declared that ''perishable crops are in danger due to
unforeseen emergency.''


- Foreign workers would be allowed to remain in the United States for 20 days
after they finished one job so they could look for work at another farm. Under
the current rules, foreign workers may not stay to look for work.


- Employers would not have to provide housing to temporary foreign workers;
instead, they could pay a housing allowance in cash.

To curtail employment of illegal aliens, the rules propose that any farmer who
applied for permission to bring in temporary workers would have to give consent
for Federal immigration officers to enter his fields and inspect his records
without a search warrant.

Farmers showing a ''pattern or practice'' of hiring illegal aliens would be
barred for a year from the foreign worker program.

Terry W. Stark, vice president of the Western Growers Association who is a
former Agriculture Department official, said that while the proposals
''demonstrate sensitivity to the needs of agriculture,'' growers preferred
statutory rather than regulatory changes.

Dolores C. Huerta, vice president of the United Farm Workers of America, said
her group opposed ''every'' change making it easier to bring in foreign workers.

Antonia Hernandez, executive vice president of the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund, said her group opposed the proposals as permitting
''exploitation of foreign workers'' and undermine efforts to unionize farm
workers.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              10 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 22, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BILL ON ALIENS A DIVISIVE ISSUE FOR DEMOCRATS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21


Proposals to rewrite the nation's basic immigration law have deeply divided the
Democratic Party, pitting Hispanic groups against organized labor on a potent
election-year issue.

With the House nearing debate on the question, the American Federation of Labor
and Congress of Industrial Organizations is pressing for a statutory ban on
employment of illegal aliens, contending that they depress wages and working
conditions for American citizens. Hispanic groups vehemently oppose a ban,
saying it would increase the likelihood of discrimination against Americans of
Hispanic descent.

The best-known bill on the issue was introduced by Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky. It would penalize employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens and
would offer legal status to many illegal aliens already in the country.

The Senate last May passed a version of the bill supported by the Reagan
Administration. A generally similar bill, which differs in many details, is
awaiting action in the Democratic-controlled House and may reach the floor soon
after Congress reconvenes next week.

Vilma S. Martinez, former president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and
Educational Fund, said: ''This issue pits two of the Democrats' constituencies
against each other. For the party, it comes down to the question: Whom do you
love more?''

Ann F. Lewis, political director of the Democratic National Committee, said the
immigration issue was causing ''stresses and strains within the Democratic
coalition.'' But she added: ''I don't think a single issue of this kind will
tear up the party. The diversity of our coalition has always been a strength.''

President Reagan and the Republican Party are ardently wooing Hispanic voters in
the belief that many share Mr. Reagan's conservative views on national defense
and social issues. Although the Reagan Administration has supported the Simpson-
Mazzoli bill since it was introduced in 1982, Administration officials have not
been active or outspoken in pushing the bill this year.

Peter D. Kelly, chairman of the California Democratic Party, said: ''If the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill passes, the political consequences for Democrats,
especially in the Southwest, would be disastrous. It would be a slap in the face
to one of our biggest voting blocs, Hispanic Americans, and it would give
Hispanic voters a strong reason to stay home or vote for President Reagan.''

Mr. Simpson and Mr. Mazzoli have said the legislation is essential if the
country is to regain control of its borders. But the Hispanic Caucus of the
Democratic National Committee, at a meeting last month, adopted a resolution
saying it was ''firmly and unequivocally opposed to the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.''

Dissent by Caucus Member


One caucus member, J. F. Otero, filed a dissent. Mr. Otero, vice president of
the Brotherhood of Railway and Airline Clerks, serves as a spokesman for the
A.F.L.-C.I.O. on questions of immigration and refugee policy.  In a letter to
Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro of Queens, chairman of the Democratic
Platform Committee, Mr. Otero expressed ''strongest opposition'' to the position
taken by the Hispanic Caucus. He warned that the caucus resolution ''would be
very divisive for Hispanics and the Democratic Party.''

In a policy statement, the A.F.L.- C.I.O. said an immigration bill should impose
penalties on employers hiring illegal aliens, establish ''a system for
verification of the identity of job applicants'' and provide a ''generous''
amnesty for illegal aliens already here. The federation also supports amendments
to the Simpson-Mazzoli bill that are designed to prevent employment
discrimination.

In its resolution, the Hispanic Caucus of the Democratic National Committee said
it opposed any bill that ''uses employer sanctions as a means of controlling
immigration.'' It says a worker identification system could violate the civil
liberties of citizens and permanent resident aliens. It contends that illegal
aliens ''do not take jobs away from U.S. citizens.''

Manatt to Meet With O'Neill


Hispanic Democrats are urging the chairman of the Democratic National Committee,
Charles T. Manatt, to use his influence to block action on the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill or at least to guarantee full, open debate in the House. Mr. Manatt said he
wanted to ''respond to the Hispanic leaders' concern'' and would meet soon with
the Speaker of the House , Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Democrat of Massachusetts, to
discuss the issue.

There has always been some tension between labor unions and Hispanic groups in
their approach to immigration, but the strains increased this year as the House
prepared to take action on the Simpson-Mazzoli bill. Political interest in the
issue may reach a peak as candidates for the Democratic Presidential nomination
campaign in Texas, which holds caucuses May 5, and California, which holds a
primary June 5.

The candidates, Walter F. Mondale, Gary Hart and the Rev. Jesse Jackson, all
oppose the Simpson-Mazzoli bill on the ground that it could increase
discrimination against Hispanic workers. Michael Kantor, co-chairman of the
Mondale campaign in California, who is also a partner in Mr. Manatt's law firm,
said, ''The bill's use of employer sanctions and a worker identification system
is anathema to the coalition we are trying to create.''

Mr. Mondale said last week that he supported ''the thrust'' of an alternative
immigration bill offered by Representative Edward R. Roybal, a California
Democrat. Mr. Roybal rejects employer sanctions as ''unworkable and
discriminatory.'' His bill would provide more resources to enforce existing
labor laws, on the theory that employers hire illegal aliens because they can be
exploited.

Representative Bill Richardson, a freshman Democrat from New Mexico, said he had
been asked by Speaker O'Neill to try to negotiate a compromise acceptable to all
factions in the House. ''My role is to be a broker,'' said Mr. Richardson, a
member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              11 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 1, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FEART AND SKEPTICISM ACROSS THE BORDER

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 881 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY


If illegal Mexican immigrants and the people who study them are correct, the
immigration legislation now being considered by Congress would not regain
control of the United States border so much as it would offend nearly everyone
south of it. The Mexican Government has had little officially to say about the
legislation, which was approved last week by the House of Representatives. In a
statement, the Foreign Ministry merely warned that the measure could ''seriously
undercut and injure the human and labor rights of Mexican workers.'' But
business, labor and peasant organizations have been unanimous in condemning the
proposed law. It has been called racist, repressive, economically devastating
and another instance of the wealthy and omnipotent United States turning its
back on less fortunate neighbors.

The vision that has been created here is one of massive deportations, with
accompanying social and economic disarray, as illegal immigrants flood back
across the border to a country already seriously short of jobs. The president of
the Confederation of Industrial Chambers, Jacobo Zeidenweber, predicted that the
legislation ''will cause very major damage'' to Mexico's economic, political and
social systems.

Among those who study Mexico's illegal immigrants, however, and among the
immigrants themselves, the belief that the law would put an end to the flow of
undocumented workers is dismissed as politically expedient fantasy. Laws
imposing penalties against employers who knowingly hire illegal workers have
been on the books in California and several other states for years, with little
effect. Experts do not expect American citizens to replace illegal workers in
the low-paying jobs most of them would vacate. So long as the demand for cheap
labor continues, they predict, so will the flow of undocumented workers.
''There is nothing in the bill that would be different from sanctions that
already exist,'' said Dr. Jorge Bustamante, director of Mexico's Center for
Border Studies of Northern Mexico. The incentive to cross - the need to feed
oneself and one's family - has been far stronger than the legal barriers.
Mexicans of all social classes demonstrate a remarkable facility for skirting
their own country's laws when their economic interests are involved. There is
little reason to think they would cease to skirt someone else's. Unemployment is
estimated at more than 10 percent and underemployment, above 40 percent. The
minimum wage is $4.41 a day and real income is crumbling in the face of
continuing inflation. ''You're talking about one of the world's highest-wage
countries in juxtaposition with a middle-developed country that nonetheless has
one of the lowest wage scales,'' said Wayne A. Cornelius of the University of
California's Center for United States-Mexico Studies. ''There's simply no legal
or police remedy to that.'' $1 Billion ContributionMassive deportations are
unlikely, Mr. Cornelius said, since the legislation covers only the newly hired,
not illegal aliens already working in the country, and applies only to companies
with more than four employees. Nevertheless, the bill may do some damage to
Mexico, researchers said. Higher-paying job opportunities for border- violators
are likely to dry up, cutting earnings and thus the money illegal immigrants can
send or bring back to their families. They now contribute an estimated $1
billion a year, one of Mexico's largest sources of foreign currency.

Problems are also likely to increase, at least temporarily, in Mexican border
towns, as workers wait to see if the coast is clear before trying to cross.
Northern border cities have already had their resources strained by spectacular
growth and this is likely to worsen. While the growing number of ''in bond''
border assembly plants have provided jobs for some of the new arrivals, wage
scales are low, making them only a short- term alternative for most Mexicans
seeking the comparative riches available across the border.

The measure offers a major concession to illegal immigrants - amnesty for those
who can prove they have lived continuously in the United States since January
1982 but for many Mexicans this will be of little help. A large number cross
back and forth with the seasons. Dr. Bustamante estimates that there are 500,000
illegal Mexicans in the United States most of the year and that the total rises
to 1.5 million to 1.75 million for the summer and fall harvests. Also, many of
those who have been hiding from the authorities and working in the underground
economy are unlikely to have collected authentic documentary evidence of their
stay in the United States.

As the House and Senate prepare to go to conference to resolve their differences
on the legislation, the flow shows no sign of letting up. In Tijuana a few days
ago, dozens of Mexicans could be seen trekking across a parched, rock-strewn
field near the airport to a point where they would hide out until nightfall,
waiting for their chance to slip by the border patrol and into the United
States. Across the road at a little shop, a tortilla maker told a visitor he had
watched the sequence repeated nearly every day for 15 years. ''There's nothing
for them to do here,'' he said. ''They'll never stop them from going.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mexicans waiting to cross border

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              12 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 10, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

FALSE IDENTITY EASY FOR ALIENS TO BUY

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1713 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 9


Eighteen-year- old Hector Z., a quiet man with a shy smile, says he was born in
the United States, in Rio Grande City.

But he said he figured he should use a phony name since he was buying a phony
Social Security card. He decided on ''Horacio Garza,'' signing it in a boyish
hand.

The woman typed the name on the card, underneath the number she had already
typed in, 487-07-5231. Then she sealed the card in plastic for him and
''Horacio'' handed her a $10 bill.



Questions About Enforcement


Hector was demonstrating, at a reporter's request, how easy it is to buy phony
documents. Although such papers are of no use to Hector, their widespread use
among illegal aliens has raised serious questions about the enforceability of
the sweeping immigration legislation pending in Washington.

Although the House and Senate versions have significant differences that await
resolution by a conference committee, both seek to deter further illegal
immigration by penalizing employers who hire alien workers without proper
documents. Both would also grant some form of legal status to those already here
for a certain period of time.

And the effectiveness of the legislation would depend on reliable verification
of documents presented by aliens seeking amnesty and employment.



Closer Scrutiny Required


Although bogus documents are now routinely accepted by willing employers eager
for cheap labor, the immigration legislation would require closer scrutiny by
employers and thus make use of such documents harder.

The amnesty provision, however, would allow such papers as rent receipts and
utility bills as proof of residency, some of which might be faked.

Even supporters of the legislation concede that no system of verification will
be foolproof, and the strongest critics say it will never work at all.

Illegal aliens now have ready access to bogus papers, from Social Security cards
to birth certificates, visas and passports, to drivers licenses, for every
purpose from obtaining employment to fraudulent access to unemployment, welfare
and other benefits to which they are not entitled.

It took Hector less than 10 minutes to buy the bogus Social Security card at a
concession booth at a crowded flea market in south Houston. At the same booth he
bought an identity card that looks like a Texas driver's license.

Another Identity Card


At another booth, advertising ''Seguro Social,'' or Social Security, Hector
bought a second such identity card, on this one giving the name Armando Cortez
and a different address. For $20, it appears you can be anyone you want.

There was nothing illegal about the transactions so long as the papers were not
used, and Hector had no intention or reason to use them. Someone who actually
made use of bogus papers, depending on the type, would be subject to fraud or
counterfeiting charges or both.

Even for the sellers, the transactions are apparently legal.

The identity cards, complete with a full- color picture, are virtually identical
with a real driver's license, except for a modest difference that is nonetheless
important in keeping the issuers out of jail. The cards do not carry the seal of
Texas, only something that looks like it, and does not call itself a drivers
license, only an ''I.D. card.''

The bogus Social Security card says ''Social Security'' across the top and on
the back tells the bearer to ''contact any Social Security office immediately''
in case of loss. But the card does not bear the seal of the Department of Health
and Human Services, as a genuine card would.

Only the Seal Is Protected


The two young women at the booth where it was bought said that they only worked
there and that the man who hired them - they could remember only his first name,
''Mark'' - had assured them ''his lawyer said there was nothing illegal about
selling these.''

The Government authorities concede that only the seal of the Department of
Health and Human Services is protected from infringement, and bogus documents
that do not carry such a seal, even if they carry one that looks at a glance
very much like it, are not regarded as subject to penalties for counterfeiting.

Getting a birth certificate and a genuine Social Security card with a matching
name was only slightly more difficult. Immigration officials note that it is a
common transaction.

It required a trip to a large shopping center in north Houston heavily
patronized by Hispanic people. A Caucasian woman acting at a reporter's request
made several inquiries of small groups of men gathered in the parking lot and on
nearby Hogan Street, asking about where to buy a birth certificate. A Hispanic
man who appeared to be in his early 40's said he knew someone who was trying to
sell one.

A Tattered Birth Certificate


The man stepped away, talked briefly to another man and returned in two minutes
with a tattered birth certificate originally issued in Houston March 25, 1957.

The certificate, a copy issued in 1982 by Houston's Bureau of Vital Statistics,
appeared authentic, bearing the bureau's imprint. A Social Security card bearing
the same person's name also appeared authentic and appeared to have been issued
in 1983.

The price for both was $60.

The transaction was not only relatively simple but also something of a bargain,
said Vincent P. Henderson of the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service in Houston.

According to Mr. Henderson, assistant district director for investigations here,
a valid birth certificate of an American citizen with a Hispanic name that can
be adopted by the user normally sells for up to $300. Forged birth certificates
may bring $100.

One Document, Then Another


A citizen who works with an illegal alien, he said, might agree to order, for a
price, a duplicate of his own birth certificate. With the birth certificate, the
alien can often obtain other valid documents, such as a Social Security card, or
even a passport, in a process called ''pyramiding.''

''One document leads to another document,'' Mr. Henderson said.  He conceded
that bogus documents could be readily obtained. ''It's hard to say how
widespread the use of fraudulent documents is,'' he said. ''How do we know what
is so good it's getting past us?''

Some are authentic, some forged, and others, like the flea market fakes, are
only a semblance of the real thing.

Few cases are prosecuted, he said, adding, ''Most aliens say they bought their
documents from Jose and that's all they know about him.'' But he said five
suspected vendors are now under investigation in Houston.

The pending immigration legislation raises concerns about documents regarding
both employers and those illegal aliens who seek amnesty.

In the case of employers, the legislation would make it illegal to hire anyone
without proper documentation. The reasoning is that if illegal aliens cannot get
jobs, they will stop coming to the United States.

But the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a private group favoring
more effective controls on illegal immigration, fears difficulties in
enforcement if what emerges from Congress does not include strict penalties and
methods of verifying documents.

''There are plenty of unscrupulous employers out there who will hire these
people whenever they can get away with it,'' said Daniel Stein, a spokesman for
the organization.

The Senate bill makes the ''pattern and practice'' of knowingly employing
illegal aliens a crime, and violators could be fined and even jailed. The House
version removes the criminal penalties and provides for only a civil fine of up
to $2,000 for violations.

Both House and Senate versions take notice of the traffic in bogus documents but
deal with it in different ways.

The Senate version would rely on existing documentation such as a Social
Security card for three years until a ''secure'' system could be devised.
Critics say that would allow for continued abuse that would be virtually
impossible to untangle, after three years, with a new system.

Grace Period Provided


The House version seeks to thwart fraud by providing for a toll-free number that
a prospective employer could use to verify that the Social Security number he
has been given is valid. Failure to do so could result in a fine of up to $500.

Although that system would curb the use of patently phony numbers, it is
uncertain how it would police the use of a valid number by more than one person.
The Social Security Administration concedes that currently it can take a year or
more to spot such duplication.

In any case, the employer would have a grace period of up to six months in which
he could employ a person without verification.

The amnesty provisions of the legislation pose even more complex problems of
documentation.

Evidence of Residency


The House and Senate versions set different cutoff dates of entry for
determining which illegal aliens would be eligible for amnesty. But both
versions would rely on documentation requirements that are flexible. According
to the immigration service, those seeking amnesty could present a number of
papers to provide a preponderance of evidence that they have been here for the
necessary length of time to qualify. The documents could be rent and utility
receipts with name and address, check stubs showing employment, possibly even
affidavits from clergy or neighbors.

All of these can be obtained fraudulently.

''Every time there is a lot of publicity about amnesty you get a run on rent
receipts,'' said Joseph Aubin, Border Patrol intelligence officer in El Paso,
one of the busiest traffic points for illegal crossings. He noted that various
packages of bogus documents are routinely sold in Mexico, allowing an illegal
alien to arrive here with his documentation already in hand.

There is skepticism about whether the immigration service can screen out
fraudulent documents in even a routine manner. It has been estimated that under
the length-of-residence requirements in the Senate bill, which are more
stringent, about 2.3 million would qualify for amnesty. A two-hour interview and
document inspection for each applicant would mean 4.6 million man- hours of
review.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Joseph Aubin of the Border Patrol; Photo of marketplace booth
where transactions are made

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              13 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 15, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

RIO GRANDE BORDER GUARDS ADOPTING NEW TACTIC

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1616 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 12


As the most sweeping immigration legislation in three decades died in Congress
this week, the tide of aliens crossing the Mexican border illegally continued to
swell, and the Border Patrol began shifting its emphasis north, hoping to
prevent the illegal entrants from melting into society.

Larry Richardson, chief of the patrol's El Paso sector, once said the death of
immigration change would be ''a real disaster.'' But he now says that new
tactics and recently authorized increases in the number of patrol agents can
stop thousands who stream across the border daily from going farther inland,
disappearing into America's cities and becoming a permanent illegal second
society.

The patrol caught 1,034,142 illegal aliens along the Mexican border in the
fiscal year 1983 and 1,056,905 in the fiscal year 1984, despite unusually cold
weather that slowed traffic. And immigration officials concede that they did not
catch most of those who entered the country illegally and indeed decline to
estimate how many people do so.

New Efforts Expected

Those officials and Hispanic leaders agree that, despite the failure of Congress
to approve the measure, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Arizona, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, there would
be renewed efforts to amend or replace what they see as the country's outmoded
and unworkable immigration laws.

''We've developed a great mass of information that will help us shape
legislation that will be more passable,'' said Lionel J. Castillo, Commissioner
of Immigration and Naturalization in the Carter Administration and now president
of Houston International University.

Mr. Castillo said he favored a gradual shift in immigration laws rather than the
wholesale change represented by the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.

Similarly, Arnoldo S. Torres, national executive director of the League of
United Latin American Citizens, predicted that Hispanic groups would fight for
change next year, adding that he favored a gradual program over three to four
years.

Paul O'Neill, director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Houston,
also suggested the amendment of existing laws.

Use of 1952 Act Recommended

He said, for example, that the immigration act of 1952 offered amnesty, or legal
status, to illegal aliens who entered the country before 1948. He termed the
amnesty provision in the Simpson-Mazzoli bill too liberal but suggested that the
1952 legislation could be amended to provide a later date, perhaps 1965.

He also said existing legislation providing for the importation of farm laborers
could be revised to allow for more ''guest workers'' in agriculture and possibly
other industries.

The immigration service, Mr. O'Neill maintained, is badly understaffed. He said
he would have to triple his complement of agents even to begin discovering and
deporting the 500,000 illegal aliens estimated to be living in Houston alone. In
three recent days of raids in the city, 731 illegal aliens were taken into
custody, but Mr. O'Neill said ''that didn't make a dent.''

But Mr. Richardson, the El Paso sector chief, said the 850 officers who had been
authorized to join the 3,000 working on the Mexican border and at interior
checkpoints will ease the problem.

''We've got a pretty good reprieve,'' he said.

Record Set in El Paso

El Paso, the busiest border sector after Chula Vista, Calif., set a record in
the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, with the capture of 212,000 illegal aliens. It
will get 158 new officers, but it will be a year before they are trained and
ready for duty.

''We look at a point a year from now,'' Mr. Richardson said. ''We'll be able to
accomplish what we've been trying to do all along, and that's keep anybody from
loading up a load of wetbacks here in El Paso and successfully driving them to
Denver. I won't be able to keep them out of El Paso, but I'll be able to keep
them from getting out of the border area.

''It's not a new tactic. It's one we're admitting. It's just a very practical
look at a situation where you've got God only knows how many people in a year's
time going to jump across the fence on you anywhere in 2,000 miles. You've got
to look at what you can do to keep them from going to Denver or Chicago or
wherever. What it reflects is us finally being willing to admit that we may miss
a maid working locally as she's crossing the river because we're doing something
that's probably better.''

Mostly Arrive on Foot

The illegal aliens come mostly on foot. Some wade across the shallow Rio Grande
or for a small fee are carried across by strong young men. Others traverse dusty
sandhills and desert wastes that support little except rattlesnakes and cactus.

There are thousands of places to cross the 1,952-mile border, and the Mexicans,
joined lately by Guatemalans and Salvadorans, come by the millions. Some of the
Mexicans work for a day as field hands, maids or yardmen, roam the streets
picking rags, earn a few dollars at the bloodbanks that line the border and
return home in the evening. These are the ''day crossers,'' who account for
about two-thirds of the illegal traffic.

The other third of the illegal people stay longer, hopping freights at the El
Paso railroad yard, meeting smugglers who may charge as much as $1,500 for
clandestine trips north in vans, boarding buses, hitchhiking or sometimes flying
to Houston, Los Angeles, Denver, Chicago or dozens of other cities. Perhaps six
million illegal residents live in varying degrees of secrecy in cities away from
the border.

Knots Along 2 or 3 Miles

As dawn broke on a recent morning in El Paso, a small drama that is played out
each day unfolded as usual. On one side of the Rio Grande, 200 to 300 men, women
and children, some carrying lunches and personal belongings, gathered in knots
along two or three miles of border. Slowly, in pairs or small groups, they waded
or were carried across.

Once on the United States side, but still outside a chain-link fence, they
gathered in larger groups, one of which numbered perhaps a hundred. This is what
Border Patrol officers call ''the buildup.''

As 8 A.M. approached, large and small groups peeled off from the mass and darted
for holes in the fence. Waiting for them were no more than a half dozen agents.

Officer David Wineland sat in a cramped cubicle in an administration building
watching 11 television monitors connected to cameras at strategic points along
10 miles of border.

On the monitors, the illegal aliens were tiny dots that resolved into human
figures as the cameras zoomed. They waded the river, clambered up the bank and
ran for cover.

'We Can See All Right'

Officer Wineland saw it all, barking locations by radio to waiting officers.
''We can see them all right,'' he said, ''the problem is having enough men to
catch them.''

As officers chased one group, others spun away across a highway and a railyard
to blend in and disappear.

This day as usual, those who were caught were simply returned to Mexico. Most
tried to cross again within hours.

''I've caught the same person three times in one day,'' said the senior Border
Patrol officer, Eldon Hurst, who has chased illegal aliens for 11 years.

''It's a game,'' said Officer Hurst, a stoic man. ''It's a frustrating and
futile job. You don't have a lot of job satisfaction, but you do have fun. You
can't take this too seriously.''

Increasingly, the object of the game is to keep those who have crossed the
border from continuing north. Mr. Richardson calls it ''a strategy of
containment.''

Importance of Freight Yards

It involves checkpoints on major highways, at bus stations and airports, and the
freight yards. From there, the Santa Fe wheels to Albuquerque and points east
and west, the Southern Pacific goes to Tucson and Los Angeles, to San Antonio,
Dallas and Chicago.

''With train changes, you can go anywere from here,'' Officer Hurst said. ''And
they do.''

It is a dangerous trip. The aliens hide on top of boxcars and tank cars and
between the wheels of trailers lashed onto piggy-back cars. ''About once a
month,'' said Officer Hurst, ''someone falls under the wheels.''

At a long grade eight miles out of town where the trains slow to about 10 miles
an hour, a half dozen agents gathered to await two Southern Pacific container
freights that were to appear within 20 minutes of each other, each with two
agents aboard.

At the search point, agents ranged down the tracks, playing flashlights between
the wheels of the trailers.

4 Leap From the Train

Suddenly, four figures emerged, leaped from the train and fled into the brush.
Two agents were waiting.

As the four were put into vans, the lights along the track flashed across two
men crouched between the wheels of a container trailer.

Racing along loose gravel beside the churning wheels of the flat car, Officers
Dennis Quint and Michael Patrick threw themselves aboard.

''Vengase!'' one shouted. ''Come here!''

''Bajese!'' ''Come down!''

As the two aliens were marched to a van, others were flushed from hiding spots
atop cars or under loaded containers.

Seven men aged 18 to 30 were taken from the first train, 11 from the other. It
was a slow night, Officer Bud Dudley said. ''We've been averaging between 30 and
45 a night.''

But it is impossible to check all the trains, and no one knows how many aliens
tumble from the freights to the barrios and alleys of Los Angeles and Houston
and Chicago.

''We're in a time-buying situation,'' said Mr, Richardson. ''Maybe next year
they'll address it again politically.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of border police

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              14 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 17, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

COSTS OF IMMIGRATION REFORM, MEASURED AND UNKNOWN, DROWNED 1984 BILL

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1230 words


The efforts of three successive Administrations to reform the nation's
immigration policy collapsed last week on the critical question of cost.

The White House insisted on a billion- dollar spending limit as a condition for
accepting the latest bill, which would have been the most sweeping reform of
immigration policy in three decades. Key Congressional backers of the measure,
sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Arizona, and Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, wanted a flexible spending limit.

Implicit in the debate and the stalemate that left the bill to die when Congress
adjourned was a recognition that the cost of immigration reform would be high,
although no one knew how high.

Without reform, though, the presence of what may be six million illegal aliens
in this country exacts an economic and social toll. No one knows how high that
toll is, either, or how much of it is offset by the advantages society gains
from a low-wage work force that cannot receive benefits available to citizens.

Cost Grows With Arrivals

There is no question that the growing number of illegal aliens living here puts
a strain on some social services or that the cost grows with each new arrival.

Adding to the bill are the costs created by the rising number of illegal aliens
whose United States-born children are entitled to all the benefits given any
other citizen.

Those who watch immigration patterns agree that while earlier waves of illegal
arrivals were predominantly single males, there is an increasing tendency among
such men to stay here and marry, as well as a growing incidence of illegal
immigration by entire families, the man often arriving first and the wife and
children joining him after he has found a job and a places to live. Because they
are most often young, these families continue to grow.

Last Resort for Care

They are much in evidence at Los Angeles County-University of Southern
California Medical Center, a dull, worn facility near downtown Los Angeles that
from the outside looks more like a factory than a general hospital.

For tens of thousands of poor people in southern California, it is the last
resort for medical care, and increasingly its patients are illegal aliens. They
do to the medical center in great numbers, and their unpaid bills cost the
county $99.8 million last year.

Those bills are part of the burden borne by Federal, state and local
governments, which provide anything from financial aid to emergency medical care
to education to routine city services, such as police and fire protection, not
only for citizens but also for illegal aliens, some of whom obtain services
fraudulently.

Estimate by Federal Agency

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that Federal, state and
local governments probably lose $1.26 billion annually for each million illegal
residents.

That calculation assumes a tax contribution of $995 million from each million
illegal aliens, offset by a total cost to government of just under $2.25
billion. This cost is based on an analysis last fall of cost data in job
displacement, education, unemployment, welfare, health and crime.

It is a matter of unusual complexity, and the illegal aliens themselves are only
a part of the equation.

On a recent evening inside the Los Angeles medical center, for example, a very
young woman who gave her name as Ana Teresa Cruz jumped up regularly to chase
her 20-month-old son, Roberto, a rambunctious infant dappled with the chocolate
bar he had been eating.

Her Child Is a Citizen

Mrs. Cruz is from Tijuana and has been in the United States illegally for two
years. Roberto was born in the Los Angeles hospital, and regardless of his
parents' status he is a United States citizen.

Last year 18,813 children, one of every 200 of the estimated 3.6 million births
nationwide, were born to illegal aliens in three public hospitals in Los Angeles
County alone. The births cost Los Angeles County $20.1 million in unpaid
maternity bills.

And while children born here to illegal aliens are costly because they are
entitled to all the benefits of citizenship, they present a special moral and
legal problem. Deporting their parents would mean either breaking up families or
in effect deporting children who are American citizens.

Charts Under Different Names


Mrs. Cruz says that because Roberto is a citizen - she says it with a clear note
of pride - she does not fear seeking medical care for him. But not for herself.
''I am well,'' she says.

Those who do seek care create medical as well as fiscal problems because they
often use false names. ''We've got patients floating around here with three and
four charts under different names,'' said Dr. John Gunning, associate chairman
and chief of gynecology at another of the county's hospitals, Harbor-U.C.L.A.

Some Hispanic organizations, bolstered by several studies in the late 1970's,
have suggested that illegal aliens in this country put as much into the economy
as they take out. What is lost at the state and local level, the argument goes,
is offset by a tax windfall to the Federal Government in payroll deductions the
illegal residents never recoup because they are afraid to file for refunds or
benefits.

Later studies, including the 1983 immigration service finding, dispute that
argument, suggesting that illegal aliens avail themselves of public services to
a greater degree than was previously believed.

Small Displacement Role Seen

A study for the Urban Institute published this year concluded that a typical
illegal Mexican family in southern California absorbed $2,000 more in various
services than it paid in taxes, and cited low wages as a reason. It also said
illegal aliens actually displaced few, if any, American workers.

In general, programs supported wholly or in part by the Federal Government deny
benefits to illegal aliens, although some states provide benefits, generally
such aid as hospital insurance and workers' compensation, but not unemployment
insurance.

A 1982 survey by the Federation for American Immigration Reform, a private group
pushing for immigration control, reported that illegal aliens were not eligible
for general assistance in most states, but were in Maine, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, North Carolina, Ohio, Washington
and Wisconsin.

Catherine C. Randlett, director of the State of New Jersey's Washington office,
said that state regulations specifically made illegal aliens eligible for
benefits from New Jersey's General Assistance program and the Federal
Government's Aid to Families with Dependent Children program, half of whose
costs are paid by the state.

All Estimates Are Guesses

Any estimate of how many illegal aliens use those programs, she said, is only
''a guess.'' Using a ballpark figure of 74,000 illegal aliens in the state, and
assuming that 5 percent got assistance at a per capita cost of $2,800 a year,
she said, ''We're dealing with a dollar figure of not less than $10.4 million.''

Another question is the cost of education. The Supreme Court has ruled that all
children living in the United States, regardless of citizenship, have the right
to free public education. Officials estimate that this now costs $85 million a
year in Texas alone.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              15 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 18, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HIGH COURT BACKS FACTORY SEARCHES FOR ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1178 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 17


The Supreme Court ruled today, 7 to 2, that immigration officials may conduct
unannounced raids on factories and businesses to look for illegal aliens.

The decision, overturning a lower court's ruling, validated one of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service's most widely used and effective
techniques for finding illegal aliens.

Under this technique, immigration officials enter a factory after obtaining
either the owner's permission or a search warrant. While some agents stand at
the doors, others walk through the factory, questioning workers about their
immigration status.



20,000 Arrests in a Year


Those workers who cannot answer to the agents' satisfaction or produce
immigration papers, often as many as half of all the workers, are arrested. The
surveys have resulted in as many as 20,000 arrests a year in the Los Angeles
area alone.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in Los Angeles, ruled
in 1982 that the technique was unconstitutional. The court said that the method
constituted a ''seizure'' of a factory's entire work force, in violation of the
Fourth Amendment's prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures. It
also ruled that an individual worker could not be questioned unless the agents
had a ''reasonable suspicion'' that the worker was an illegal alien.



Both Aspects Overturned


In an opinion by Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist, the Supreme Court today
overturned both aspects of the appellate court's reasoning. The entry and
behavior of the agents could not be regarded as a ''seizure'' of the entire work
force, Justice Rehnquist said, because the factory's occupants remained at least
theoretically free to walk out at any time. Anyone who tried to leave would have
been questioned, he said, but would have been allowed to go after answering
satisfactorally.

''Mere questioning,'' Justice Rehnquist said, ''does not constitute a seizure.''

Justice Rehnquist said that while actual detention required at least ''some
minimal level of objective justification'' under the Fourth Amendment, the brief
and limited questions asked of most workers and answered were simply ''classic
consensual encounters'' that raised no Fourth Amendment issue.

Outside of the nine Western states in the Ninth Circuit, the Immigration Service
has continued to conduct factory raids.  The Ninth Circuitcovers California,
Montana, Idaho, Washington, Oregon, Arizona, Nevada, Alaska and Hawaii.  In the
New York metropolitan area, a raid in South Plainfield, N. J., led to the arrest
of 107 suspected illegal aliens last August.  The Federal and city authorities
raided 27 massage parlors and nightclubs in February 1983 and charged 22 people
with attempting to bribe immigration officials. The authorities also arrested 46
illegal aliens, most of whom were described as Korean women who had been
''smuggled'' into the United States to work in massage parlors here.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration Service in Washington, said the
agency kept no records on the numbers of raids it conducted or the numbers of
people apprehended in the metropolitan area.

Justice Rehnquist's opinion, I.N.S. v.  Delgado, No. 82-1271, was joined by
Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and Associate Justices Byron R. White, Harry A.
Blackmun, John Paul Stevens and Sandra Day O'Connor.

Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. wrote a separate concurring opinion. He
said the factory raid should be regarded as the equivalent of an immigration
checkpoint at the border, which the Court has found to be constitutional.

Associate Justice William J. Brennan Jr. wrote a dissent that was joined by
Associate Justice Thurgood Marshall. While they agreed that the entire work
force had not been seized, they said that ''only through a considerable feat of
legerdemain'' could the individual questioning not be regarded as a ''seizure.''

They said the raid was a ''frightening picture of people subjected to wholesale
interrogation'' under conditions designed to intimidate.

The practice was challenged by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union
and four of its members who had been questioned in Immigration raids on two Los
Angeles factories. Two of the members were citizens and two were legal
residents, so none of the plaintiffs in the 1978 lawsuit had actually been
detained. Their request for a declaration that the raids were unconstitutional
was denied in Federal District Court before the Court of Appeals ruled in their
favor.

Other actions at the Court included these:

Outdoor Areas

Voting 6 to 3, the Court reaffirmed a doctrine of the law of search and seizure
first announced in a 1924 decision by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes. Under this
doctrine, the police do not need a search warrant to enter and search an outdoor
area beyond the immediate environment of a private home, even if the area is
posted with ''no trespassing'' signs and is clearly intended to be private.

The owner's desire for privacy is irrelevant, the Court said in an opinion by
Justice Powell. Such an expectation of privacy in an open field is not
''legitimate in the sense required by the Fourth Amendment,'' Justice Powell
said, noting that the amendment explicitly protects only ''persons, houses,
papers and effects.''

The opinion decided two cases, both of which concerned warrantless police
searches of fields where marijuana was being cultivated. In one case, Oliver v.
U.S., No. 83-15, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit relied
on the open fields doctrine in upholding the search of a secluded patch of
marijuana deep in the Kentucky woods. The Court today upheld that decision.

In the second case, Maine v. Thornton, No. 82-1273, the Court overturned a
ruling by the Supreme Court of Maine, which had ruled that a similar search
violated the landowner's privacy.

Justice Marshall wrote a dissent, which was joined by Justices Brennan and
Stevens. They called the Court's opinion ''startling,'' noting that the Court
had given Fourth Amendment protection to telephone conversations, offices and
other locales not mentioned by the amendment itself.

California Land

The Court ruled that California must compensate landowners if it wants to impose
public uses on privately owned coastal land that before 1848 was part of Mexico.
A major portion of California's coast is in that category.

The 8-to-0 decision overturned a ruling by the California Supreme Court, which
had applied the state's ''public trust'' doctrine to coastal areas that had been
in private hands continuously since the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo ended the
Mexican War.

Under that doctrine, the state could evade normal eminent domain procedures and
use the land without compensation to the owners.

In an opinion by Justice Rehnquist, the Court said California could not now
claim these areas unless it had asserted a claim in the 1850's. The case, Summa
Corp. v. Calif., No. 82-708, concerned a small lagoon near Marina del Rey.
Justice Marshall did not vote in the case.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              16 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 27, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Hispanic Votes vs. Public Interest

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 582 words


Citing their painfully won knowledge of discrimination, Hispanic groups have
mobilized against the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill and the Democratic
Presidential candidates have rushed thirstily to their side. What a sad mistake
for all concerned.

For one thing, the effort will not help all Hispanics but might well cost a
million or more of them something priceless: legal status.

Worse, the effort pits parochial special interest against the general interest -
and against fairness. It's fairness, most of all, that's offered by the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill, which has twice passed the Senate resoundingly and is
almost all the way home in the House. And fairness is the best reason for
Congress now to finish the job.


Simpson-Mazzoli represents a carefully balanced political bargain. It would
legalize illegal aliens already in this country, freeing them from a cloud of
exploitation and fear of discovery, fear so strong some won't call the police
even after robbery or rape.

At the same time, Simpson-Mazzoli would finally make it illegal for an employer
to hire illegal workers. Thus turning off the economic magnets would probably be
the most effective thing America can do to regain control of its borders.
Closing the back door would relieve mounting pressure to close the front door to
legal immigration. The pressure is so strong that there are now urgent calls in
Congress to halve the number of legal immigrants from around the world.

Legalization and employer sanctions can probably only be enacted as a package.
Hispanic groups, however, embrace the sweet and scorn the sour.  They call for
even more generous legalization while denouncing employer sanctions, arguing
that these would make employers reluctant to hire anyone who looks Hispanic,
legal or not. It's a hard argument to follow. Employers already face labor
shortages. Under Simpson-Mazzoli, they'd find it harder, if anything, to locate
workers; they'd have every reason not to discriminate.  In place of employer
sanctions, the Hispanic groups endorse a bill sponsored by Representative Edward
Roybal of California. It calls for hiring many more Border Patrolmen. But that
would have pallid enforcement effect compared with employer sanctions, and it's
something the Administration proposes doing anyway. The Hispanic alternative is
no alternative at all.  More understandable than the public arguments against
Simpson-Mazzoli is the not-so-public belief among Hispanics who have made it to
the Promised Land that they must not betray those yet to come - indeed, must
protect the illegal path. It's a humane, even admirable feeling. Yet it collides
with something else humane: equity.  There are millions, all over the world, who
also want to enter the Promised Land. Hispanic groups speak passionately for
''undocumented workers'' yet to come from Mexico. But who speaks for the
millions waiting patiently elsewhere? To tolerate a continued illegal tide
sorely tries American patience with all foreign migrants.  By any standard of
decency, it's wrong to favor migrants from one country at the expense of all
others. It's wrong to favor illegal at the expense of legal entrants.
Simpson-Mazzoli, this generation's immigration reform bill, would right those
wrongs. It serves the general interest, and the Democratic Presidential
candidates know it. If they're serious about showing their independence of
special interests, here's a gleaming chance for them to do it.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              17 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE GIRDS TO TAKE UP TOUCHY IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 7


House Democratic leaders today reaffirmed their intent to bring up comprehensive
immigration legislation next week but expressed doubt that it would pass.

More than half the 268 House Democrats attended a party caucus in the Capitol to
discuss the bill. The session was closed, but most of the speakers were reported
to have criticized the bill.

The bill's chief sponsor, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky, was said to be one of the few who strongly defended the proposal.
Designed to curb the influx of illegal aliens, the bill would penalize employers
for hiring them and would offer legal status to many illegal aliens already in
the country.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service apprehended 1.2 million illegal
aliens in the last fiscal year, including more than a million near the Southern
border.

A Monday Vote Set


The first test will come Monday when the House plans to vote on a rule setting
the terms of debate. The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said today
that the proposed rule would probably permit 73 amendments with no time limit on
debate. He has set aside all of next week for debate on the bill.

But opponents, including many Hispanic groups, hope to prevent House action on
the bill by encouraging members to defeat the rule so there would be no further
debate.

Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, chairman of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said: ''It's not clear that the rule can be
defeated. We will have to do a lot of lobbying.''

Democrats assume that most Republican representatives will support the rule and
the bill, which is strongly supported by the Reagan Administration. But many
Republicans, like many Democrats, are deeply interested in particular
amendments.

In May 1983, the Senate voted 76 to 18 to approve a generally similar bill
introduced by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.

Pledge by O'Neill


At his daily news conference today. Mr. O'Neill answered no when asked whether
he would be disappointed if the House defeated the rule Monday, precluding
further action on he bill. But he said he would be true to his word, given
repeatedly over the last six months, and would bring the legislation to the
floor.

''This is a Mazzoli- Simpson bill,'' Mr. O'Neill said, ''This is not a
Democratic bill.'' In response to a question, he said, ''I haven't found any
avenues except the editorials of my newspaper who are for the legislation.''
Making his personal views even clearer, the Massachusetts Democrat said, ''I'm
cool to the bill, to be perfectly truthful.''

The majority leader, Representative Jim Wright, a Texas Democrat, who was once
optimistic about the chances of achieving a compromise, said: ''I have just worn
out my pick on this mountain. The issue is so emotional, anything you do that
satisfies one faction alienates another faction.''

The fate of the bill has always been uncertain in the House. But doubts about it
appear to have increased in the last few months as lawmakers began to study the
proposal. The three leading candidates for the Democratic Presidential
nomination spoke out forcefully against it.

Two See Potential Damage


Representatives Garcia and Geraldine A. Ferraro, Democrat of Queens, told the
caucus that passage of the bill in this election year could be politically
damaging to the party, especially in its effort to attract Hispanic voters.
''The Democratic Party is truly a mosaic,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''We have people
who are black, brown, yellow and white. It's ludicrous to me that we as
Democrats end up in a debate against those people who historically have
supported the Democratic Party.''

Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, has offered an amendment to
delete the amensty provisions. He and others contend that amnesty would be an
insult to people in foreign countries who have been waiting for years for United
States visas; that it would draw more illegal immigrants, and that it would be a
burden to taxpayers, who might have to finance social services for some of the
legalized aliens.

Supporters of the bill reject all those arguments. Attorney General William
French Smith today told House Republicans that the Administration was strongly
committed to the Simpson- Mazzoli bill.

Many opponents of the legislation are lining up behind an alternative proposed
by Representative Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California. The Roybal bill
omits employer sanctions.  Instead, it would authorize additional money for the
Government to enforce labor standards set by current law, on the theory that
employers hire illegal aliens because they can be exploited.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              18 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

The Day the Cloud Lifted

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 644 words


Freedom Day, it might be called. It could come on January 1, maybe sooner, and
if it does occur, it will reverberate in the history of the melting pot. Through
the night, people will line up by the thousands, perhaps by the hundreds of
thousands, outside churches, community centers and government offices, waiting
to come out of the shadows, waiting for freedom from fear. Freedom Day: the day
on which two million or more illegal aliens become legal residents.

The idea of such a day has long been a dream for people who understand how
shamefully those aliens are exploited. In a few days and a few votes, that dream
could be ratified.

Last week, the House of Representatives worked most of the way through the
Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill. Among other things, the House voted for
a big stick: to make it illegal for employers to hire illegal aliens. That
provision, already approved by the Senate, could do much to put the country back
in charge of its borders. On Tuesday or Wednesday, the House will vote on the
companion carrot: to legalize the status of aliens already established in this
country.

This amnesty would apply only to those who have been here for some time. It
would not make them citizens. Indeed, the amnesty would expressly forbid their
receiving many kinds of governmental aid. But it would free them from the cloud.

What kind of cloud? Representative Robert Garcia of the Bronx tells of a
relative who came over the border from Mexico in 1921. ''For almost 50 years,
until he died, he looked over his shoulder, afraid of being caught and sent
back. He was a fine worker, he spent years working in the Brooklyn Navy Yard.
But all that time, he had to live that way, under that cloud.''

Illegal aliens are subject to exploitation by employers or landlords who
threaten to turn them in unless they accept low wages, high rents and tawdry
conditions. They watch as Social Security is withheld from their pay, even
though for them it's money down the drain. Fearing apprehension, they're even
reluctant to call the police when they are victimized by criminals.
Simpson-Mazzoli would allow them to apply for legal status. There might be 2.9
million people eligible, half of them Hispanic. That's a powerful answer to
those Hispanic leaders who claim that Simpson-Mazzoli would somehow be
discriminatory.  Democrats Walter Mondale, Gary Hart and Jesse Jackson know how
much legalization could benefit Hispanic people. Nonetheless, courting the
Hispanic leaders, they campaigned against the bipartisan Simpson-Mazzoli bill.
The profile in courage is that of President Reagan. He also seeks Hispanic
support, yet in his news conference last week, he stood firm in his support of
the bill.  Another kind of opposition arose in response to an amendment the
House adopted Thursday, to admit thousands of guest workers. It would allow
growers, in times of labor shortage, to ask the Attorney General to let in
enough temporary foreign workers to harvest perishable crops.  To some people,
that begins to look like a loophole as big as the law. Organized labor, for
instance, fought for the big stick of employer sanctions, to protect American
workers against the unfair competition of low-wage illegal workers. But if a
guest-worker program would let such workers in legally, then what's the point?
In fact, there's a lot of point. The popular conception is that most illegal
aliens work in agriculture. But that's a misconception. Probably not more than
15 percent are farm workers; most work in low-level service and industrial jobs.
The guest- worker provision is sure to be modified in conference with the
Senate, but even if not, Simpson-Mazzoli would bring the law to bear on the
employers who hire the other 85 percent.  That would be in the national
interest, and so would Freedom Day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              19 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CRIME AMONG ALIENS: VICTIMS OF OWN ILLEGAL STATUS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1778 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 21


The incident occurred Memorial Day in the Silver Dollar Lounge, one of the
scores of barrio bars where English, not Spanish, sounds out of place and a
stranger can talk about his hometown without fear of questions.

Two men were quarreling. One pulled a pistol and fired. A third man who had not
been involved drew a gun of his own. More shots followed - no one knows how many
- and before it was over, Aurelio Araujo and Jose Moreira, both 21-year-old
Salvadorans, were dead and another man, a bystander, was wounded.

All were in this country illegally.

In Houston and in some other American cities, such outbreaks of violence and
lesser crimes have become an increasing problem as people without legal papers
gather in a largely invisible ''second society,'' the rapidly growing
communities of illegal aliens. And as immigration legislation makes its way
through Congress, opinions differ on whether an amnesty provision would
eliminate a possible factor in crime among undocumented aliens or whether it
would reward and encourage illegal entry.

A Fateful 'American Dream'

''They came here to find the American Dream, liberty, tranquillity, peace, get
their status up,'' said Sgt. Jim Montero, who heads the Houston Police
Department's Chicano Squad, part of the homicide division. ''But they wind up in
a beer joint and somebody blows them away.''

The vast majority, both the police and Federal immigration officials agree, were
fundamentally law-abiding at home before coming here for work. But the moment
they cross the border without documents, they become part of a clandestine
society.

They are victims of their own illegal status, exploited by others and turning on
one another. ''What we're seeing are illegal aliens killing illegal aliens,''
Sergeant Montero said.

Comprehensive legislation passed by the House Wednesday and previously passed by
the Senate seeks to curb the flow of illegal aliens into the United States. Both
versions, whose differences remain to be resolved in a House- Senate conference,
would prohibit their employment and offer many of them legal status.

Living the 'Shadowed Life'


Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, said the measure ''would impact on crime to the extent that it would
reduce the illegal population, and legitimatize many already here, so they would
have no reason to live the shadowed life.''

The amnesty provision was sharply debated in the House. Bill McCollum,
Republican of Florida, contended it would reward people who broke the law in
entering the country.

But Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, argued that without amnesty the
United States would be host to ''a large class of potentially desperate
people.'' And Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, said, ''We are going to try
to give them dignity.''

Illegal aliens could be considered the third-largest minority in America, behind
blacks and Hispanic citizens. Estimates range from 3 million to 12 million, but
most scholars and Government officials are willing to use 6 million as a working
figure. Most are of Hispanic origin, fleeing war or poverty or political
oppression in their homelands to slip with relative ease across a border that
has proved impossible to close.

Resolving Matters Themselves


Federal and police officials agree that these aliens, as part of a society that
by its very definition is illegal, are preyed upon and, fearing the police, are
increasingly prone to take matters into their own hands.

Last April, in hearings to explore the effects of the huge number of illegal
aliens in Texas, Detective Robert Gatewood of the Chicano Squad testified that
almost a third of Houston's murders last year involved illegal aliens.

No one is quite sure how many illegal aliens are in Houston, but one in eight,
about 400,000 in a metropolitan area of 3.5 million people, is the estimate
given by Dr. Donald L. Huddle. He is a professor of economics at Rice University
who has done extensive research on illegal immigration.

Detective Gatewood testified that the Chicano Squad investigated 215 murders
last year involving people from Mexico, El Salvador and Colombia and that 95
percent of the victims were in this country illegally.

Lack of National Statistics


Mr. Jervis of the immigration service said there was ''no real information on
the impact of aliens, legal or illegal, on criminal activity'' nationally. One
reason for the lack of statistics, he said, ''is that crimes involving illegals
are not reported, because that brings them to the attention of the
authorities.''

Officer Frank Rogers, whose district includes a large Hispanic area in Chicago,
noted a common problem in assessing the effect of illegal aliens on law
enforcement: There is no place on an arrest record for alien status, only place
of birth.

Detective Clyde Craig of the Chicago police said: ''There is a thing on the West
Side. 'Rip off a Mexican, because if they are robbed, they are afraid to go to
the police.' ''

''We have very few illegals that are offenders,'' he added. ''We see more
victims than offenders.''

Houston's Chicano Squad, an informal name, was formed five years ago as a
temporary mechanism for investigating a growing number of homicides involving
Hispanic people. Now the squad is permanent.

The worst violence involving illegal aliens in Houston occurred some 18 months
ago and had its genesis at the Fiesta Mart, a large Hispanic market.

Deaths, Then More Deaths


Carlos Ventura, a Salvadoran, three relatives and a friend were waiting in the
parking lot for Mr. Ventura's brother to be brought from El Salvador by a band
of professional smugglers Mr. Ventura had hired. It was to be a family reunion.

When the smugglers, known as ''coyotes,'' arrived, they said the price had
doubled, to $800. An argument ensued, and a smuggler pulled a gun. But Mr.
Ventura also was armed. Before long, he was fatally wounded and one of the
smugglers was dead.

But it was not yet over. In apparent retaliation for the smuggler's death, the
same band of smugglers took four other Salvadoran illegals to a river bank,
where they were executed. Later, as the smugglers fled back to Mexico, two more
illegal aliens, Mexican nationals, also were killed.

''It's easy for them to obtain a gun,'' said Felix Trevino. As operator of
Trevino & Sons Funeral Home, in the heart of Houston's illegal alien enclave on
the north side, he buries many of the homicide victims here.

''You can buy them in a flea market,'' he added. ''I guess it gives them a sense
of protection when they're away from their country, isolated from everyone and
they don't have many friends.''

Seeking to Support Families


Some of the victims go into pauper's graves, but most, he said, have families.
''That's why they venture out here, to provide for their families,'' he said.
Instead of a livelihood, some of them find death.

Gunshots took one young man's life recently. ''I think he had just barely got
here and just worked that week, just got his first paycheck,'' Mr. Trevino said.
''They're easy prey for individuals that want to take advantage of them. They
come in and they rob them. There's not that flexibility where they can deposit
their money for safekeeping.

''A lot of these fellows don't even report it because they're scared. They're
illegals and they may get deported.''

Some aliens do turn to official justice. Reina Canas, a Salvadoran here
illegally, paid an American citizen $1,000 to marry her in a desperate effort to
stay in this country. Swindled as well as jilted, she went to court to get her
money back. Instead, she left court in the custody of two immigration officials.

Usually, the predators in this clandestine society are illegals themselves,
victimizing aliens who are isolated and who carry their cash with them.

Thugs Prowl Bars and Borders


Groups of thugs prowl bars where aliens congregate, joining a lone drinker in
conversation, drawing him out, finally suggesting a drink at another place. Out
of loneliness, the immigrant goes along, often to wind up robbed, beaten,
perhaps dead.

Closer to the border, notably in southernmost California, where last year the
Federal authorities apprehended 432,000 aliens along the 66-mile strip east of
Tijuana, there is a similar pattern of predation. Bands of thugs ambush unwary
border crossers in isolated areas, and rob, sexually abuse and often murder
them.

The hundreds of thousands who make it across unmolested face new problems.

''they get gouged for food and housing, abused by coyotes, get involved in
hit-and-run, are exploited by their employers,'' said police Lieut. Michael
Mitchell of Santa Ana, halfway between Los Angeles and San Diego. He estimated
that in addition to its base population of 219,000, Santa Ana had 60,000 to
80,000 illegal aliens.

One of the first acquisitions of a new illegal alien is an automobile, and the
authorities say stolen cars are readily palmed off on unsuspecting newcomers.
The transaction is in cash, there is no title transfer to worry about and the
alien is not likely to go to the police.

Crimes Involving Cars


Thus, said Lieut. Dan Cooke of the Los Angeles Police Department, ''we have a
lot of crime'' in areas where aliens congregate, ''especially hit-and- runs or
the abandoning of cars after minor accidents.'' Illegal aliens in Los Angeles
County are estimated to number 500,000 to more than a million.

Many illegal aliens work for as little as $2.50 an hour and undercut each other
pleading for work.

False identification is a thriving industry, often offered as a package, with a
phony Social Security card, a temporary resident permit, or ''green card'' as it
is called, and a driver's license.

''You go up to your friendly bartender and he can tell you where to go,'' said
Jose Vargas, a community relations officer with the Santa Ana Police Department,
himself an illegal alien for years before he ''made the ultimate sacrifice a man
could make - got married to get my green card.''

The enforced anonymity that characterizes an illegal alien's life sometimes
continues beyond it.

The Houston police were working on the murders of the young Salvadorans in the
Fiesta violence and its aftermath when the father of one ''contacted us,'' said
Sergeant Montero. The father had followed his son here, like him seeking only a
job.

''He knew he had a son and a nephew here and he tried to find them,'' Sergeant
Montero said. ''We showed him the pictures and he identified his son.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              20 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TO MEXICANS, LAW ON ALIENS IS CRUEL JOKE

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 912 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, June 23


On the large, windswept plateau where dozens of Mexicans huddle each afternoon
waiting for nightfall and the chance to sneak into the United States, the
possibility of stricter immigration laws is viewed as a cruel joke.

It is cruel, they say, to them - another obstacle to be overcome, like the
Mexican police who they say shake them down when they arrive in this gritty
border city from the south, or the ''baja pollos'' who rob them as they are
trying to cross or the border patrols who catch them and turn them back. ''Baja
pollos'' means to take money from chickens.

It is also a joke, they say, on anyone who thinks it will stop them from
crossing the border to find work to feed themselves and their families.

'Trying to Mess With Us'

''They're trying to mess around with us,'' said a 33-year-old carpenter who
identified himself as Alfredo. ''But there will still be work, and as long as
there's work there will still be 'mojados.' '' Mojados is slang for illegal
aliens.

He said he had just spent a week visiting his grandparents in Zacatecas, in
southern Mexico. He sat in a blue nylon windbreaker and a 1984 Olympic baseball
cap waiting for the darkness to fall before beginning the trip back to the
United States. He said he knew where he could get six months of work on a house
in the Los Angeles area.

Nearby, a man who identified himself as Juan, 28, who said he builds furniture,
was also waiting to sneak back. He probably could find work in Mexico, he said,
but it would pay only 1,000 pesos a day - about $5.45 at official rates. On the
other side of the border, he makes $3.75 an hour, he said.

''A thousand pesos - a thousand pesos might feed your family for a day, nothing
more,'' he said.

Behind Every Bush in Sight

Late Friday afternoon about 75 others with similar stories and intentions were
milling about the plateau. Others were behind every bush in sight, waiting for
the darkness and the nightly game of hide-and-seek with the United States border
patrol.

The plateau is only a few miles from the official border crossing, but
spiritually it is light years from the border crossing's bilingual ''Welcome to
the United States'' sign.

The land here is charred from fires lit by successive waves of illegal travelers
to keep warm and to heat food during their long waits. The area is strewn with
broken bottles and cans.

Technically, the plateau itself is United States territory, which begins just
the other side of the road leading to the Tijuana airport.

But to get to settled land, one must go down a gully and take one of the dozens
of roads etched into the side of a steep rise by the feet of thousands of
travelers. The walk, according to those who make it regularly, takes about an
hour.

Source of Foreign Earnings

While the newspaper Excelsior wrote that the new immigration laws would ''close
an escape valve on the pressure cooker of developing nations,'' the Mexican
Government, like the illegal immigrants themselves, has taken a detached view
toward the Simpson- Mazzoli legislation, a version of which passed the House of
Representatives earlier this week by a close margin.

The legislation was put together by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. It would
prohibit employment of illegal aliens and offer legal status to illegal aliens
who can show that they have been living in the United States since January 1982.

Maintaining its official position that it does not interfere with the laws or
internal affairs of another sovereign nation, the Mexican Government has
publicly stressed only the need to protect the human rights of Mexicans working
in the United States.

Privately, they are also concerned about the income they provide. ''What is
important to Mexico are the workers who go and come back,'' said one top
official, ''and who send money to their families here.''

Although official figures are impossible to calculate because of the clandestine
nature of the income, estimates of the money sent or brought back are in the
range of $1 billion a year. This would make it one of the country's largest
sources of foreign earnings, after oil and tourism.

At the University of California's Center for United States-Mexican Studies,
across the border in La Jolla, there is doubt that the new legislation will
change that much.

'What's Going to Deter Them?'

''As a practical matter,'' said Wayne A. Cornelius, the center's director,
''what's going to deter them from coming? Word from their friends and relatives
that there are no jobs.''

That is not likely, he added. Loopholes in the legislation, he predicted, would
make it possible for many employers to continue to hire illegal aliens, without
facing the penalties specified by the law.

Forged copies of many of the documents needed by the illegal aliens can be
purchased, as they are now, and even the toll-free 800 number proposed in the
House bill to check the validity of Social Security numbers seems unlikely to be
effective, since many of the cards presented by illegal aliens are borrowed from
legitimate card holders.

What is likely, Mr. Cornelius said, is that immigrants will be forced into
''lower tier'' jobs as larger - and therefore better paying - businesses close
their doors to new illegal workers to protect their reputations.

''They're not going to go back to work in Mexico,'' he predicted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              21 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 6, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Judge Considers Plea Of Refugee Worker

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 67 words

DATELINE: CORPUS CHRISTI, Tex., Sept. 5


Jack Elder, director of a Roman Catholic-sponsored refugee center, believed two
Salvadorans were fleeing a war zone and he had no intention of violating
immigration laws when he drove them to a Texas border bus station, an attorney
argued in court Tuesday.

Mr. Elder, 40 years old, whose center is near the Texas-Mexico border, is facing
charges of conspiracy and transporting illegal aliens.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              22 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 22, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIEN-AID MOVEMENT LOSES A ROUND IN COURT

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 379 words

DATELINE: CORPUS CHRISTI, Jan. 21


A Federal judge ruled today that the Government has an ''overriding public
interest'' in prosecuting a leader of a movement to give sanctuary to illegal
aliens and that interest outweighs the leader's right to free exercise of
religion.

The leader, Jack Elder, and others in the movement say they have a religious
duty to protect the aliens from unjust persecution and terrorism at home, and to
protest United States policy in Central America.

Federal District Judge Hayden Head Jr. denied defense motions to dismiss the
case against Mr. Elder on religious and other grounds. Jury selection is
scheduled to begin tomorrow.

First Amendment Rights

Last Thursday, Judge Head recognized Mr. Elder's right to practice his religion
as director of Casa Oscar Romero, a refugee shelter 20 miles north of
Brownsville, Tex.

He also placed the burden of proof on the prosecution to show that there was a
sufficiently high interest in enforcing United States immigration law to
outweigh Mr. Elder's rights to freedom of religion, as provided in the First
Amendment.

Judge Head, who on Thursday called Mr. Elder a ''seriously committed, practicing
Catholic,'' today acnowledged the prosecution's claims that the enforcement of
immigration laws has a high enough priority to override those rights.

Mr. Elder, who is 41 years old, is charged with transporting three Salvadorans
from Casa Romero to a local bus station and could receive up to 15 years if
convicted.

The defense argued that Mr. Elder was following his religious conviction by
aiding Salvadoran and Guatemalan immigrants. Today Judge Head told the defense
attorney, Stephen Cooper, that ''there is no obligation on any Christian to
express her social action in the manner chosen by Mr. Elder.''

Case-by-Case Basis

He added, ''Congress has decided that each Salvadoran case should be decided on
a case-by-case basis.''

Judge Head said that Mr. Elder's rights to freedom of religion are ''balanced
against the entire national interest of an immigration policy,'' as enforced by
the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

Leaders of the sanctuary movement say they are violating United States
immigration policy because the policy is statistically biased against
Salvadorans.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              23 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ANTI-DEPORTATION ORDER CROWDS HOLDING CENTERS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 32, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 486 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 25


Immigration officials fumed and Border Patrol holding stations filled up with
children after a Federal district judge temporarily barred the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from deporting alien minors not accompanied by adults.

By noon Friday, roughly 200 juveniles were being held around the country under
the terms of the order. Last weekend, motel rooms had to be rented to
accommodate children who could neither be deported nor released, and officials
expressed concern about even worse crowding this weekend.

The ban, issued late Wednesday by Judge Terry Hatter, followed the accidental
deportation of a 14-year- old legal resident who spent five days wandering in
Tijuana and San Diego before being reunited with his family last Monday. The
order will remain in effect at least until this Monday.



Youth Says He Was Intimidated

The youth, Mario Moreno Lopez, a resident alien living in Santa Ana, Calif., was
arrested along with 33 people suspected of being illegal aliens. He said he was
twice intimidated into signing voluntary deportation forms and was not advised
of his right to demand a hearing before deportation.

The youth said he did not have his papers identifying him as a legal resident
because his father, Juan Moreno Garcia, was afraid he would lose them.

Judge Hatter, a former juvenile court judge, said he was ''rather appalled'' by
the immigration service's actions and that such mistakes can seriously damage
juveniles.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service is investigating whether the youth's
civil rights were violated and whether the agents involved should be
disciplined.



Mistakes Rare, Officials Say

Officials of the service said the temporary order would cause hardships for
their officers because they could release the children only to their parents,
who are often not to be found. They said the accidental deportation was a rare
occurrence.

''It's a very unusual situation, and it wouldn't have happened if the boy had
had his proper documentation or had not changed his story,'' said Duke Austin, a
spokesman for the immigration service in Washington.

Immigrant rights organizations and attorneys in the case disagreed. Attorneys
for the two groups that sought the injunction also contend the immigration
service has violated an earlier Federal court order that says unaccompanied
alien juveniles must not be coerced into signing voluntary deportation forms and
must be informed of their rights.

''This is just one of many instances of the abuse of rights by the I.N.S.,''
said Linton Joaquin, an attorney for the National Center for Immigrants' Rights.
''In the earlier case that brought about the first injunction, we've documented
15 other cases of children being coerced into waiving their rights.''

Peter Schey, an attorney for Mr. Moreno Lopez and his father, said the father
was considering suing the service.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              24 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 19, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Comment on Aliens Angers Ethnic Leaders

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: SAN JOSE, Calif., April 18


An immigration official's assertion that one-fourth of the workers in the
electronics concerns near here are illegal aliens has drawn an angry response
from Hispanic leaders.

''I think it's a real gross distortion,'' said Esther Medina, executive director
of the Mexican American Community Services Agency.

Fernando Chavez, president of the Mexican-American Political Association, the
son of the farm labor leader Cesar Chavez, called the estimate ''ridiculous''
and ''ludicrous.''

But Harold Ezell, regional commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, is sticking by his estimate. He says that, if anything, the actual
percentage of illegal workers is probably higher.

Mr. Ezell issued his estimate Monday as his agency marked the opening of a new
office here with 19 arrests in raids at two electronic concerns.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              25 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 9, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE FAIRER CURE FOR U.S. IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 550 words


To the Editor:


Your April 27 editorial ''Hispanic Votes vs. Public Interest'' presents a
distorted picture of the Hispanic community's opposition to the Simpson- Mazzoli
immigration reform bill.

The Roybal alternative immigration bill, H.R. 4909, does not simply provide for
the hiring of more border patrolmen. It is a comprehensive bill that deals with
our immigration problems equitably.

Instead of employer sanctions, H.R. 4909 places an emphasis on labor law
enforcement. The Secretary of Labor would target key industries that are
believed to hire a large number of undocumented people. The bill authorizes $25
million for fiscal year 1985 and $30 million for fiscal year 1986 for the
Department of Labor to carry out this enforcement.

The enforcement of labor laws would have the dual effect of improving working
conditions and wages, thereby making jobs more attractive. Also, it would take
away the incentive for employers to hire undocumented people since exploitation
would no longer be possible.

In addition, a 1982 General Accounting Office study on employer sanctions
programs already being used by 19 countries and Hong Kong stated that ''although
each country had laws penalizing employers of illegal aliens, such laws were not
an effective deterrent to stemming illegal employment. . .'' Sanctions would,
however, be discriminatory, and as the study points out, there is no guarantee
that they work.

The Roybal bill separates the ''package'' of sanctions and legalization.
Legalization, all parties agree, is necessary, but sanctions are not necessary
for legalization. The enforcement of labor laws and beefed- up border patrols
along with other aspects of H.R. 4909 would prove to be enough of a curb on
undocumented immigration to permit a comprehensive legalization program.  As
long as poverty is rampant south of our border, we will have an immigration
problem. Simpson-Mazzoli does not consider this aspect of immigration reform;
H.R. 4909 does. It does so by establishing a special commission to conduct
studies on the foreign policy, or push-pull, aspect of immigration problems.
While this would not provide an immediate solution to immigration problems, it
would be a first, positive step toward establishing a long-term solution.  As
far as Hispanic groups ''speaking passionately'' for people yet to come from
Mexico and Latin America, we do have a special feeling for people from Latin
America and the Caribbean, especially the poor and the hungry. Yet, we're
Americans. We understand the need to protect our borders. What we don't want to
see is those of us living here or those yet to come having to suffer under a law
that would create even more barriers for our community.

Simpson-Mazzoli may be trying to become this generation's immigration bill, but
Hispanic people are this generation's immigrants. That means that we will not
allow ourselves to be pushed aside because a legislative proposal seems to look
good, particularly if the price is further discrimination against our community.
I suggest you take a closer look at H.R. 4909 before deciding that
Simpson-Mazzoli is the answer to our nation's immigration problems.

(Rep.) ROBERT GARCIA Chairman, Congressional Hispanic Caucus Washington, April
27, 1984

*

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              26 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 14, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
 Cubans Said to Arrive From Central America

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 81 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, May 13


More and more Cuban refugees are immigrating illegally to Florida from Central
America, United States immigration officials say.

In the last three months, 30 Cubans have been arrested at Miami International
Airport after inspectors detected fake passports, according to Perry Rivkind,
district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He made the
comment in an article published today in The Miami Herald.

The majority came from Panama, the rest from Costa Rica.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              27 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BILL TO CURB ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION: HOUSE DEBATE REFLECTS DIVERSITY OF NATION

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2024 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


For nearly 40 hours this week, the House of Representatives has been conducting
a historic debate on immigration policy as it searches for ways to stem the flow
of illegal aliens into the United States.

Lawmakers from California and Texas spoke most often, but the debate reflected
the full geographic, social and economic diversity of the country, from the
apple orchards of Washington State to the sugar cane fields of Florida.

If the legislation is ultimately approved, it would make the most sweeping
changes in immigration law since 1952.

The debate, which continues next week, focused on a bill that would prohibit
employers from hiring undocumented aliens. Violators would be subject to a
graduated system of penalties, known as employer sanctions. The bill would also
offer legal status to many aliens who are already in the United States illegally
and would make it easier for farmers to bring aliens into the country for
seasonal work in harvesting crops.



Helping to Control the Borders


The bill was introduced by Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky. The Senate has twice passed, by ratios of more than 4 to 1, a similar
bill offered by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming.

Supporters of the Simpson-Mazzoli legislation said it would permit the nation to
regain control of its borders. Opponents said it would not achieve that goal,
but could lead to an increase in employment discrimination against Hispanic
workers and members of other minority groups.

Under the bill, employers would have to ask job applicants for two documents to
verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in this country.
Some of the most impassioned debate came on a section of the bill that would
have required the President to study the need for a more ''secure'' system of
identification. The House deleted this section, but it aroused fears and
concerns that pervaded the debate on other provisions of the bill.

The House voted to adopt an amendment creating a special foreign worker program
for producers of perishable fruit and vegetables. The amendment, offered by
Representative Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California, forced lawmakers to
choose between the conflicting political demands of the agriculture industry and
organized labor.

Herewith are published some excerpts from the debate.



Peter W. Rodino Jr.  Democrat of New Jersey

Since the last time we considered this legislation, we have witnessed the
largest number of apprehensions on the Southwest border in our history. Over one
million persons were apprehended attempting to cross into our country illegally.
While there are no statistics to bear this out, it is readily accepted that
several million others succeeded in gaining illegal entry to this country.

When we consider the economic conditions and political turmoil in the countries
to the south of us, the problem of illegal crossing will continue to mount
unless action is taken.

Trent Lott Republican of Mississippi

The immigration problem is a ticking time bomb that must be dealt with now if it
is to be dealt with at all in an effective manner. The bill before us is the
product of a number of compromises, and I think it is fair to say that nobody is
completely happy with all its provisions. If you think our immigration problem
is difficult and controversial now, just think how intractable and heated this
will be if we fail to tackle the problem at this time.

Hamilton Fish Jr.  Republican of upstate New York

Mr. Speaker, in my judgment, this is the last opportunity this House will have
to deal responsibly with this issue of national importance. If we fail to act, I
fear the American people will not forever tolerate the ''revolving door'' on our
Southwest border. How many more years of millions of undocumented entering at
will will our people accept before demanding a repressive response?

E. (Kika) de la Garza Democrat of Texas

The whole context of the discussion earlier today was about the unscrupulous
employers who exploit. They speak as if every undocumented is exploited. Not so.
It is the exception, not the rule. As I travel throughout the country, I see in
our culture that the employer is the godfather of the little baby of the
undocumented who hails from Guanajuato or some other part of Mexico, Central or
South America.

I heard from proponents of this legislation that we must control our borders, we
must secure our borders for national defense purposes. From whom? From some peon
from El Salvador? A little Indian from Guanajuato, Mexico? We in this country
are the last beacon of democracy, liberty and justice. That is why they want to
come.

Patricia Schroeder Democrat of Colorado

Thomas Reed, twice Speaker of the House in the late 19th century, called reform
''an indefinable something to be done, in a way nobody knows how, at a time
nobody knows when, that will accomplish no one knows what.''

Nothing more perfectly fits Speaker Reed's recipe than the bill before us today,
the Immigration Reform and Control Act. The bill does not address where
immigrants come from, why they flee their countries, what they do when they
arrive here. It did not consider how many jobs are saved and created by
immigration.

Robert Garcia Democrat of the Bronx

The bill before us is a compromise effort. But at what price is the compromise?
Who must bear the burden of this compromise and its uncertainties? This is not a
delicate balance. There is an unfair burden placed on the backs of black, brown
and yellow people already living in this country.

There seems to be a fear that if we do not pass this bill, millions of people
south of our border will be flooding into the United States to steal our jobs
and break down our society. There are subtle racial overtones in this argument.
I do not believe it is true.

Bill McCollum Republican of Florida

Our immigration laws were not designed to handle the Mariel boatlift when
125,000 Cubans arrived in south Florida in 1980. We still have those same laws
today. As a result, we have 170,000 asylum applications pending before
immigration judges, compared to as few as 3,800 in 1978. It is no wonder that
even routine hearing determinations of status take years, and the opportunities
for delay in exclusion and deportation matters are great.

We must provide the tools to expeditiously and fairly exclude aliens who have no
color or right to enter the United States when they are apprehended trying to
get in. If they have some kind of documents that they claim give them a right to
be in the United States, or they are claiming asylum, then certainly we should
afford them an opportunity for a hearing before an administrative law judge. But
where there is no claim for asylum, no documents presented and no reasonable
basis for legal entry into the United States, we should turn them away
summarily.

Parren J. Mitchell Democrat of Maryland

There is no feature in this bill that frightens me more than the possibility of
a national identification system. That is totally inimical to the spirit and
character of America. If ever there was a civil liberties issue, it is this one.
Even the most remote suggestion of a study of an identification system is
repugnant to the democratic process.

Norman Y. Mineta Democrat of California

I do not think we should travel down the road that could lead toward national
identification cards, not one foot, not one inch. The idea of a possible central
national data bank listing everyone's ethnicity and heritage, a listing which
would be essential for such a system, is profoundly and overwhelmingly
abhorrent. It makes little difference if the cards are to be carried by each
individual or the data bases are to be tapped by phone calls.

Mickey Leland Democrat of Texas

We are indeed paranoid about studies, we are paranoid about identification
cards, we are paranoid about dog tags, about ribbons we have to tie around our
arms or tattoos that we might have to suffer from. The Jewish people of this
country have reminded me many times that they remember and will never forget
what happened to them in Eastern Europe.

And so we ethnic minorities in this country remember what our history is, and
therefore we will never forget and we will forever stand up and fight against
any kind of identification system or anything that would approach what those
cruel and evil people have done in Eastern Europe and other places.

William E. Dannemeyer Republican of California

Sanctions bothered me, but I concluded that sanctions and amnesty are
inseparable. If we think it through, if we adopt sanctions and we do not give
amnesty, if we follow the law, the day after we have sanctions we are not going
to have anybody working because that employer cannot establish that the worker
who is there has legal status to be employed.

I do not like amnesty because, frankly, it says to somebody who broke our law,
''We are going to forgive you.''

But look, we are in a mess. This is a pragmatic institution of legislation where
we have to give and take and modify all the conflicting demands. We have a
serious problem on our hands, and I am prepared to accept amnesty and sanctions.


Leon E. Panetta Democrat of California

My father, when he first came to this country, worked in the field with his
brothers because that was the nature of the jobs that were required in the
perishable crop area.

It has not been the kind of work, unfortunately, that has attracted large
numbers of domestic workers. There are all kinds of reasons: wages, the kind of
work that is involved here. It is not pleasant work. Believe me, I have done it.
It is not pleasant work. It is tough work.

When the bracero program was brought to a close, did that stop the use of
foreign workers? Absolutely not. We went into the massive illegal immigration
problem that continues to supply the workers in the fields. Today 50 to 80
percent of many of the crews are illegal. That is a reality that we have to deal
with.

Henry B. Gonzalez Democrat of Texas

I am opposed to the so-called guest worker program authorized by the pending
bill, and I am even more opposed to the pending amendment. The farm worker
program created in the bill itself is odious, but this amendment would even
offend a slave driver.

People who wanted slaves would at least buy them; this amendment is a
rent-a-slave device. The amendment does not even provide the skeletal labor
protections that existed under the infamous bracero program, which this Congress
terminated 20 years ago.

Barney Frank Democrat of Massachusetts

There are a lot of these agricultural workers under this amendment who will
spend more time in America than the average member of Congress. As I understand
it, without commenting on the travel habits of some of my colleagues, under this
amendment you can come here and be a temporary worker in America for 11 months
out of the year; one month out and you are O.K. As I said, there are members of
Congress who would not quite make it under this.

You will have a permanent Marxist army of the unemployed across the border able
to come in here, not as citizens, not as fellow human beings with full rights,
but just as that group of domestics that come and go. Maybe they will not do
windows, but they will do everything else.

Romano L. Mazzoli Democrat of Kentucky

Immigration is how America came to be America. Immigration is how we remain a
strong nation and how we will be able to weather the storms of the years ahead
into the 21st century.

The House does not want to do nothing with respect to immigration reform. The
House wants to do something.

If the capital of the United States were in southern California, we would have
done something about this problem many years ago.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              28 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 19, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CITY'S IMMIGRANTS SHOW CONCERN AS ILLEGAL ALIENS BILL NEARS VOTE

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 698 words


Immigration counseling offices in New York report a deluge of telephone calls in
the last week from immigrants worried about a bill nearing a vote in Congress
that would penalize employers of illegal aliens.

''Calls have quadrupled,'' said Peter Zendzian, director of the Catholic
Migration and Refugee Office of the Diocese of Brooklyn.

''For now, they are in a panic - some don't go to work,'' said Roger Laguerre,
who works in the Haitian Information and Documentation Center, a storefront
immigration counseling office in Brooklyn.

The bill, which may be voted on in the House of Representatives as early as
today, is seen as the sharpest change in immigration law in decades. Similar to
a bill already passed by the Senate, the House version would offer amnesty to
illegal aliens who came to the United States before a certain date - 1980 and
1982 are being debated - and would fine employers up to $2,000 for each illegal
alien they hired.

Second Largest Concentration


The New York metropolitan area has the nation's second-largest concentration of
illegal aliens, according to estimates by the Immigration and Naturalization
Service. Last year, immigration agents apprehended 14,163 illegal aliens here,
second only to Dallas.

About 100 people, including Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx,
demonstrated against the bill yesterday, walking in a picket line in front of
the immigration offices in Manhattan.

''One in four New Yorkers is foreign- born, and we fear employers will turn away
foreign-looking workers,'' said Lourdes Santiago, a spokeswoman for the
Committee for Fair Immigration Legislation, the sponsor of the rally.

The Committee, an association of Haitian, Dominican, Chinese and Filipino
groups, was formed in 1982 to fight an earlier version of the current House
bill, she said.

According to one Federal estimate, as many as 500,000 illegal aliens could be
working in the New York area, principally in restaurants, as domestic workers
and in the garment industries.

''For now, we are telling them to sit tight,'' said Father Francisco Dominguez,
director of Immigration Services of the Archdiocese of New York.

Father Dominguez, whose Manhattan office handled immigrants from 72 nations last
year, said he and other church workers were beginning to plan for ''a big flow
of people'' seeking information on the law.

''The four dioceses may get together to pool translation services,'' said Father
Zendzian, of Brooklyn. ''We want to train teams to go into every parish to
register people for the amnesty law.''



Official Stresses Benefits

In a telephone interview from Washington, a Federal immigration spokesman, Verne
Jervis, stressed the beneficial aspects of the bill. He estimated that one-third
of the illegal aliens living in New York would be eligible for the amnesty,
which could lead to full citizenship, and he predicted there would be ''an
education period'' for employers to adjust to the new situation.

The illegal aliens who did not qualify for the amnesty would continue to risk
deportation if they were detected.

The employers of one group of illegal aliens, the estimated 50,000 domestics
working in the New York area, would not be affected by the bill.

''The bill only affects employers who hire four or more illegals,'' said David
Scheinfeld, an immigration lawyer who specializes in helping illegal aliens who
work as domestics get their working papers. Under current state laws, he said,
it is legal to hire an undocumented alien in New York and New Jersey.

Immigration counselors in New York yesterday reported a high level of anxiety
among the city's often shadowy illegal immigrant population.

''It started last week,'' said Frey Garcia of the North Manhattan Coalition for
Immigrant Rights. ''The Latinos are frightened. It is not the Dominicans. The
Puerto Ricans are worried they will be mistaken for 'indocumentados' -
illegals.''

Chi-Yim Siu, a member of the Coalition of Asian-Americans for Fair Immigration,
said, ''We fear the law will be used as a pretext for discrimination against
anyone who speaks English with an accent and doesn't look Caucasian.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              29 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 27, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Hang On to Immigration Reform

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words


These are bleak days for immigration reform. The Democrats' national candidates,
pandering to Hispanic leaders, parrot the unjustified claim that the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill fosters discrimination against Mexican-Americans. Vice
President Bush, joining the panderers, promises that President Reagan wouldn't
sign anything discriminatory. The bill's sponsors have reason to fear that the
necessary compromise between Senate and House versions won't survive a second
close House vote.

But this essential reform has been pronounced dead before. America still needs
to gain control of its borders, to abandon the lures to illegal immigration and
to punish the hiring of illegal aliens. The reformers got this far by finely
balancing regional interests and subordinating partisanship. They should not
yield now to opportunism in either party.


The three contenders for the Democratic Presidential nomination outdid each
other in opposing Simpson-Mazzoli as discriminatory. The party's
Vice-Presidential candidate voted against it for opposite reasons, contending
that amnesty for millions of illegals already here was unpopular in her Queens
district.

Mere repetition will not prove the fears of discrimination. Employers who now
hire Mexican- Americans will still need to hire Mexican-Americans. All they'd
have to do is verify, by means of an ethnically neutral telephone checking
system, that a job applicant is a legal resident. Far from encouraging employers
to avoid hiring Hispanics, as is charged, the law would deny any excuse to
employers who might indeed want to discriminate.  If they focus on the merits,
the Senate and House should be able to reconcile their bills. The House's would
grant amnesty to more recently arrived illegals. But Government must, at some
point, draw a line and then control the borders. And aliens must, at some point,
be allowed out of the shadows without further fear of exploitation.  More
difficult is the House's open-ended allowance for ''guest'' workers in seasonal
jobs. But that, too, can be narrowed and made fair. Where they can show real
need, fruit and vegetable growers can be accommodated.  Both bills would
penalize illegal hiring, but the House rejected the Senate's criminal sanctions.
Reform should not founder on that difference. The important step now is to
proclaim it illegal to lure illegal migrants with job opportunities.  Senator
Alan Simpson and Representative Romano Mazzoli, the Republican and Democratic
sponsors of this measure, have already struck a great many impressive
compromises. The Hispanic leaders do not speak for a unanimous constituency.
This reform deserves to survive because it is one of those rare achievements, a
truly national response to a problem recognized by all Americans.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              30 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              August 15, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
2 Illegal Aliens Told To Return to Mexico

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., Aug. 14


An illegal alien couple found by immigration officials when their picture was
published because they won a house in a charity drawing were ordered today to
return to Mexico within four months.

O. John Brahos, an immigration judge in Chicago, ruled that Jose Carmona, 29
years old, and his wife, Silvia, 24, were subject to deportation. But despite
the objections of a Government attorney, he granted their request to be allowed
to leave the United States voluntarily rather than be deported and gave them
until Dec. 14.

By avoiding deportation, the couple remain eligible to seek a visa to return to
the United States.

Mr. Carmona, a roofer whose four young children are United States citizens, said
after the hearing: ''I just feel terrible. It's a bad day for us.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              31 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 28, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Man-Made Mountain on the Border There's a molehill growing on Capitol Hill. It's
called ''alienage,'' and it's growing so fast that unless somebody does
something today, it will crush the bipartisan Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform
bill. If so, the country will lose the chance of a generation to end the
lawlessness on its borders, leaving the public, in as much suspicion as sadness,
to ask why.

SECTION: Section A; Page 30, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 573 words


The reform effort stretches back to Peter Rodino's initiatives in the House a
decade ago. Present law says to illegal aliens: No sir, we don't let people like
you into this country. But present practice says: That's just talk. If you can
sneak past the Border Patrol, before long some employer will be glad to hire
you.

The remedy is to forbid hiring illegal aliens. But that takes courage because
the present hypocrisy has many supporters, right and left. That made a
bipartisan effort all the more necessary, and Alan Simpson, a Republican, has
been the champion in the Senate, and Romano Mazzoli, a Democrat, in the House.

In the last two weeks, after years of travail, the land of Canaan finally came
into sight. The bill made it to a House-Senate conference, and conferees have
patiently reconciled sharp differences.

But that's when the molehill starting rising. The House conferees expressed
fears that the bill would encourage employers to refuse jobs to anyone who looks
foreign, whether illegal or not. As a corrective, the House proposed to forbid
employers to discriminate against someone because he is an alien.

At first, that sounds familiar and acceptable, like prohibiting discrimination
on the basis of race, religion or national origin. But then one realizes that
such legislation would forbid employers to discriminate in favor of American
citizens as well as against aliens, a proposition nowhere examined in all the
hearings on the bill.

Would that be wise? And even if wise, would it be politically tenable? (One can
just hear a candidate somewhere declaiming: ''Do you know that So- and-So voted
to let foreigners use United States courts to sue United States companies for
hiring United States citizens?'')

The conferees soon locked themselves into an impasse on this issue, and unless
they can unlock it quickly, perhaps even today, the Simpson-Mazzoli bill will be
killed by the clock, as Congress rushes to adjourn next week.

This is a genuine molehill. The discrimination problem posed here seems mostly
theoretical. Employers have no incentive to discriminate now because low-skill
labor is already in short supply. Simpson-Mazzoli would reduce it more, giving
them even less reason to discriminate. And the alienage solution need not be
framed in extreme or extravagant terms. Surely conferees who have already
reconciled harder issues can find words to bridge this one.

If they can't, for this issue suddenly to become such a mountain invites the
suspicion that somebody's looking for a molehill big enough to hide behind.
Indeed, some people intimate that the Democrats want to kill the bill to win
favor for Walter Mondale among Hispanic groups; and that the Republicans want to
kill it because they think it will end up costing too much.

No single piece of legislation can do more than improve life and law a little.
This bill, though battered and battle-scarred, would surely do that: create, at
last, a national immigration policy based on honesty and fairness instead of
hypocrisy and piety. That's why the title Simpson-Mazzoli has denoted energetic,
even noble bipartisanship.

But now, unless the conferees can agree on language that turns the molehill back
into a molehill, this bill that has survived through so much will die, a foot
from the finish line. And names like Simpson, Mazzoli, Rodino and O'Neill will
end up denoting nothing more noble than surrender.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              32 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 5, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

371 HAITIANS ARE SEIZED AT SEA

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 290 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 4


United States officials seized 371 Haitians on two ships heading toward Florida
on Sunday and Monday, and the Coast Guard sank one of the boats because the
authorities said it was a health hazard.

The Haitians were put aboard Coast Guard cutters pending questioning by
immigration officials, the authorities said.

One group, 340 Haitians crammed aboard a 60-foot sailboat, was detected by a
Coast Guard jet Monday night, about 60 miles off the Florida coast, said Dan
Waldschmidt, a Coast Guard petty officer. He said that group had been put aboard
the cutter Seahawk and their sailboat had been sunk.

A second group of 31 Haitians was seen aboard a 50-foot freighter eight miles
southeast of Miami on Sunday evening, he said.

Officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service
interviewed the 31 Haitians and determined they were illegal aliens, the
authorities said. The group seized Sunday and any from the other group who are
deemed illegal aliens will be sent home by Wednesday, officials said.

Immigration officials were on their way this morning for a rendezvous with the
Seahawk, about 40 miles east of Fort Lauderdale in international waters between
the Bahamian islands of Bimini and Great Isaac, he said.

''Haitians found with no legal reason to enter the United States will be
returned to Haiti,'' a Coast Guard news release said.

Both vessels were found in the waters between the string of Bahamian islands
closest to southern Florida.

Haitian immigrants, fleeing a repressive regime in the poorest nation in the
Western Hemisphere, travel from one Caribbean island to another seeking to reach
the United States. The Bahamas are usually the last stop before refugees board
boats for Florida.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              33 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MOVING BRISKLY ON IMMIGRATION-LAW CHANGES

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 440 words


A S though making up for lost time, the House last week took up a broad
immigration control bill and moved briskly through more than 50 amendments. By
week's end, the debate still hadn't ended, but many opponents of the measure had
begun to talk of the inevitabiliity of passage. ''Things don't look very good,''
said Robert Garcia, the Democrat from the Bronx who heads the Hispanic Caucus.

He and other critics, who argued that the legislation would result in
discrimination against those whose English is imperfect and whose skin isn't
white, won an early round. The House knocked out a section ordering a
Presidential study on how to create a foolproof identity system. Opponents
contended that such a system would lead inevitably to a national I.D. card,
which is anathema to civil libertarians.

But the opponents, who were led by Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California,
didn't win much else. The House, in its first immigration debate since December
1982, voted to retain a provision that would outlaw the hiring of illegal
aliens.

Also approved was a new temporary foreign worker program that would offer visas
to foreign workers if American growers ask for their help.  The proposal was
sponsored by Leon E. Panetta, a California Democrat whose district is a large
user of hired farmhands. Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas,
said the importation of farm workers - opposed by organized labor, which
supports most provisions of the bill - ''would even offend a slave driver.''

The House also approved the stationing of more guards along the Mexican border
and a telephone verification system that would allow employers to check on the
validity of a job applicant's Social Security number.



Fear of a Backlash

Through all the frequently charged rhetoric, the political import of the debate
and the talk of a possible Hispanic backlash at the polls wasn't forgotten.
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. asserted that the measure, which the three
Democratic Presidential contenders oppose, was ''a Reagan bill more than anybody
else's.'' President Reagan said at his news conference Thursday night that the
legislation was overdue because ''the simple truth is, we've lost control of our
borders.'' Republicans, he maintained, have nothing to fear come November.

Still to be considered is a hotly contested proposal for a one-time- only
amnesty for illegal aliens who can show that they have lived in the United
States since Jan. 1, 1980. A final vote on the bill is likely this week.
Differences with a Senate version adopted in 1983 would have to be ironed out by
a conference committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of aliens caught by border patrolman

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              34 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 21, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

OSCURE WESTERN FARM GROUPS WON FOREIGN WORKER PROGRAM

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1719 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 20


They are not names widely known in Washington, much less held in awe: the
California Grape and Tree Fruit League, the Raisin Bargaining Association, the
Northwest Horticultural Council, the Nisei Farmers League.

Yet this summer these and similarly obscure groups of Western fruit farmers
taught Washington an advanced lesson in the art of persuasion.

Banded together as the Farm Labor Alliance, the groups won House approval of a
bitterly disputed new program that would permit foreign workers to cross the
border and harvest American crops. Now the fruit growers hope that they can hold
onto their victory, which came as an amendment to a sweeping immigration bill,
when lawmakers return next week to consider reconciling different House and
Senate versions of the immigration legislation.

On the way to their House victory last month, the fruit farmers were assisted by
a team of well-connected lobbyists, including the man who became, in the middle
of the lobbying effort, the press secretary for President Reagan's re- election
campaign, and a woman is a partner in the law firm of a former Democratic Party
chairman.



Opposition From Many Groups The farmers overcame the opposition of organized
labor and Hispanic groups. They muted the objections of the principal House
sponsor of the immigration legislation, known as the Simpson-Mazzoli bill. They
silenced the strong misgivings of officials at the Labor Department and Justice
Department.

They also withstood the initial resistance of larger farm organizations, which
told the growers in blunt terms that what they were demanding was politically
impossible.

To those who organized the lobbying crusade, it was mainly a triumph of a
meritorious case, sold with persistence and a well-plotted strategy. To
opponents, it appeared to be more a matter of money and connections. By the
reckoning of the alliance's treasurer, Harry Kubo, the growers expect the
''guest worker'' amendment to cost them more than $1 million, most of it spent
to hire two law firms with impeccable partisan credentials.

As director of their effort with Republicans, the growers employed James H.
Lake, a veteran agribusiness lobbyist who has been a top aide in three of Mr.
Reagan's campaigns. Mr. Lake said his major contribution was to help
''neutralize'' opposition to the program in the Administration. In that task, he
said, he was helped by receptive Californians in the Administration, especially
Edwin Meese 3d, the Presidential counselor, and Richard E. Lyng, the Deputy
Secretary of Agriculture.

To direct the campaign among the Democrats, the growers hired the law firm of
Robert S. Strauss, the party's former chairman, who said he had no personal
involvement in the effort. Much of the day-to-day lobbying was done by a partner
in the firm, Ruth Harkin, a former Agriculture Department lawyer. Her husband,
Representative Tom Harkin, an Iowa Democrat who is a member of the House
Agriculture Committee, is a candidate for the Senate.

Penalties for Employers

The immigration bill would establish penalties for employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens, while granting amnesty to many illegal foreigners already in the
United States. The Senate passed its version overwhelmingly, while the House
approved its measure by a five- vote margin. The House version has far more
generous exemptions for the farming industry, including the new foreign worker
program.

Senate sponsors, in the face of mounting opposition to the whole immigration
bill, may press for a vote that would send the House bill directly to the
President, avoiding a conference committee and the bill's return to the House.

The organizer of the Farm Labor Alliance is Thomas J. Hale, a former president
of the Grape and Tree Fruit League, whose 300 members grow most of California's
table grapes, peaches, plums and pears. In the fall of 1982 Mr. Hale began
pulling together Western farm groups, and he was joined early by the Nisei
Farmers League, made up of about 1,400 second-generation Japanese-American
farmers, as well as by the raisin industry, orange growers and other Western
farm groups.

Dependence on Aliens


These growers admit they are heavily dependent on illegal immigrants to handpick
fruit. They say that once such workers receive legal status, they will refuse
jobs in the fields.

At first, Mr. Hale said, the growers were inclined to fight the immigration
bill. Instead, they made what they now say was a critical strategic decision:
They would not oppose the immigration bill, but they would demand an amendment
to suit their labor needs.

Mr. Hale, Christian Schlect, of the Northwest Horticultural Council, and others
drafted an amendment and circulated it among Western growers, who tinkered with
it until it became the guest worker program. It would authorize the Attorney
General to admit unspecified numbers of foreign workers on three days' notice to
pick crops. The workers could stay up to 11 months and move from farm to farm in
a prescribed region.

Mr. Kubo, president of the Nisei Farmers League, was assigned to raise a war
chest. The Grape and Tree Fruit League agreed to contribute up to $250,000,
which was raised through a special assessment on each of the 100 million boxes
of fruit produced by its members. Corporate farmers, such as Tenneco West Inc.
and Sun-Maid Growers of California, the raisin industry giant, gave large
contributions. The alliance also conducted a direct-mail solicitation of Western
growers that brought in hundreds of smaller donations.

Problems Outside the West


At first, farmers outside the West balked at endorsing the effort, said Patrick
H. Quinn of the National Council of Agricultural Employers. The Senate bill
already included a more limited temporary worker program and gave farmers three
years to end their use of illegal workers. Many farmers felt the guest worker
proposal was overreaching. Gradually they were won over. however.

Early last year the alliance retained two Washington law firms to advise them.

To work with the Republicans, including the Administration, the farmers retained
Heron, Burchette, Ruckert and Rothwell, a firm with a long list of California
agricultural clients. The key partner was Mr. Lake, who had successfully
represented California farmers on such issues as Federal water subsidies.

Mr. Lake led the lobbying team until October, when he moved to the Reagan
campaign committee, turning over his Farm Labor Alliance portfolio to his
brother. However, he continues to advise his law firm on strategy and, according
to the firm's records, to be paid by the growers.

''I felt I had a dual task,'' Mr. Lake said, ''to protect the Administration's
interests, by not letting them create a confrontation with an important
constituency, and to protect my client's interests.''

From the outset, the Administration was divided. Mr. Lake's job, he said, was
''getting them neutral.''

Need Is Legitimate


The Agriculture Department, and especially Mr. Lyng, former California Director
of Agriculture, agreed that the growers had a legitimate need for foreign
workers. On the other hand, Labor Department officials feared the guest worker
program would displace American farm workers and jeopardize fair labor
standards. The Justice Department felt it would be difficult to enforce.

Early last year, Mr. Lake and separate delegations of Republican lawmakers
visited Mr. Meese and came away convinced he was a supporter. Mr. Meese never
took a public stand on the foreign worker bill, but Mr. Lake said the Reagan
aide ''helped create an atmosphere where people were willing to be neutral.''

The Agriculture Department, Mr. Lake said, policed the Administration's
hands-off policy: ''Every time the Secretary of Agriculture would hear about
something the Justice Department was doing in abrogation of the neutrality, Lyng
would get on the phone to the Attorney General or the deputy attorney general or
the I.N.S. and put a stop to it. It was wonderful.''

Mr. Lyng said he could only recall one such intervention, to stifle a Justice
Department official who had been criticizing the growers' amendment

'Thumbs Up' From Republicans


''Because we had neutrality, we were able to get the Republican leadership of
the House to say 'Thumbs up,' '' Mr. Lake said. House Republicans supported the
amendment 138 to 15, more than enough to offset the Democrats, who voted 90 to
157 against the measure.

To deal with the Democrats, the grower hired Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer and
Feld, which assigned several lawyers to the case.

Mrs. Harkin did not return telephone messages left at her office, but other
lawyers on the grower team said she lobbied farm-state members of the House.

Representative Tony Coelho, a California Democrat who is chairman of the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, helped guide the growers in their
lobbying and personally pleaded for support among Democrats.

Panetta Aided Cause


On the advice of their lawyers and Mr. Coelho, the growers sought out
Representative Leon E. Panetta, Democrat of California, to be their champion.
Mr. Panetta is a widely respected liberal and a strong candidate for a party
leadership role.

''If he put his name on it, they knew it could not be a horrible, abusive type
of program,'' said Mr. Quinn.

In the end, the growers said, their strongest opponents did not put up much of a
fight.

Labor unions, confident the amendment would lose and distracted by other issues,
did not mount a serious campaign against Mr. Panetta. Hispanic groups argued
against the measure with great emotion, but some lawmakers said the Hispanic
critics lacked credibility because they were passionately opposed to the entire
immigration bill.

One man who might have blocked the amendment was Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, who co-sponsored the immigration legislation with
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. Mr. Mazzoli, who had been flown
to California for repeated meetings with the growers, objected to the amendment,
but not strongly.

''Looking back on this,'' Mr. Hale said, ''if Mazzoli had stood up and really
opposed this thing, I know we would have lost it.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              35 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

BACKLOG OF 200,000 HOPE FOR ASYLUM IN U.S.

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 27, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18


Kamzati Chombo, a young African in a brown polyester suit, sat among a half-
dozen Salvadorans recently, waiting somberly in a judge's wood-paneled chamber
for his asylum petition to be filed.

Missionaries had paid his way to the United States from his native Malawi, a
small, poor country in southeastern Africa. In his homeland, he said, his
father-in-law was executed by the ruling regime. The 27-year-old explained that
as a member of the family he was also in danger of being executed.

''I cannot go back,'' he said softly.

Mr. Chombo came to the tiny and crowded immigration court, situated virtually in
the shadow of the Capitol, to begin a process of trying to persuade the
Government that his risk was real.

He Joins 200,000 Others


With the help of Jules Nolin, the counselor from the United States Catholic
Conference who acted as his legal representative, Mr. Chombo joined the ranks of
nearly 200,000 foreigners seeking safe haven on America's shores.

They have flooded the Immigration and Naturalization Service with their
requests. So far, relatively few have been able to realize their dream.

''The situation is really out of control,'' said Vern Jervis, a spokesman for
the service. ''We have applications from every nation on earth.''

In 1978, he said, the agency received only 3,700 applications. It now has close
to 170,000, which means about 200,000 individuals are seeking haven in the
United States, because many applications cover families.

In the last fiscal year, 2,479 asylum applications were approved.

The application surge began after Congress passed the Refugee Act of 1980, which
broadened the basis for getting asylum. It used to be granted only to
individuals from Communist nations or to those in certain areas in the Middle
East.

Now an applicant must prove to the immigration service and the State Department,
which passes judgment on the applications, that he or she has a ''well-founded
fear of persecution'' based upon race, religion, political opinions, nationality
or membership in a social or political group.

The immigration service and Congressional officials, along with lawyers dealing
with the agency, say the flood of paperwork has bogged down the agency so much
that people with legitimate requests to become permanent residents face waits of
up to three years.

The immigration service complains that it is being burdened by ''frivolous''
asylum applications, particularly from those the agency calls ''economic
refugees'' who are seeking improved living conditions.

The agency also says that applicants, as well as their lawyers, have discovered
that a person who has applied for asylum cannot be deported until the end of
legal proceedings, which can last years. So some use delaying tactics.

Legislation Awaits Action


A bill that would revamp the nation's immigration laws was passed by the Senate
on May 18 and is awaiting House action. Its chances for passage are unclear,
however, because of fierce opposition from Hispanic groups that dislike its
sanctions against employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens.

Officials in the immigration service say they hope the bill will pass because
revisions contained in it would clear about 120,000 asylum applicants from the
rolls by granting permanent resident status to those who have been in the United
States for several years. These people would be primarily Cuban refugees who
entered the country by sea in 1980.

One reason for the increase in asylum seekers is the increased turmoil in
nations near the United States.

To escape violence in their homelands, some applicants ''walk though Guatemala
and Mexico, places where they shoot first and ask who you are later, to get to
the United States,'' said Amit Pandya, a lawyer with the American Civil
Liberties Union who works with asylum applicants.

''It's no easy trip and their reasons for coming are not frivolous,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              36 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 4, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

BAR PANEL URGES END OF LAW THAT LIMITS ENTRY INTO U.S.

BYLINE: By DAVID MARGOLICK

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 364 words


A law that authorizes Federal officials to bar foreigners from entering the
United States because of their political beliefs hampers the free flow of ideas
and should be repealed, a City Bar Association panel has recommended.

In a report issued this week, the bar group concludes that the statute, the
McCarran-Walter Immigration and Nationality Act, contravenes the spirit of both
the Helsinki accords of 1976 and the First Amendment, and amounts to Government
regulation of ''what we see, hear, and experience.''

The statute lumps Communists and anarchists with prostitutes, polygamists,
professional beggars, stowaways, lepers and psychopaths, and permits consular
officials or the Attorney General to deny them visas.

In recent years, it has been used to bar entry into the United States to a wide
range of figures, including the Rev. Ian Paisley, the Northern Irish Protestant
leader, Roberto D'Aubuisson, a Salvadoran presidential candidate, and Gabriel
Garcia-Marquez, the well-known Colombian writer.

''Foreign visitors are turned away, discouraged from applying to enter or
granted visas only after intolerable delays, solely because of suspect
beliefs,'' the report, written by the bar association's committee on immigration
and nationality, states. ''As a result, our citizens are denied exposure to
ideologies relevant to our world, however antithetical to our dominant beliefs.

The statute attacked in the report was enacted in 1952, in the middle of the
McCarthy era, and bears the name of its chief Senate sponsor, Pat McCarran,
Democrat of Nevada.

The McCarran-Walter Act authorizes a consular official or the Attorney General
to deny visas to people seeking entry into the United States to ''engage in
activities prejudicial to the public interest'' as well as to those advocating
''the economic, international, and governmental doctrines of world Communism.''

Under a 1977 amendment to the act, the Justice Department can grant waivers to
people whom the department deems ''inadmissible.'' But this procedure, the bar
panel says, is ''cumbersome and expensive,'' and can cause those submitting to
it to miss the very event they had sought to attend.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              37 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 10, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ROYBAL DIGS IN HIS HEELS ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By STEVEN V. ROBERTS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1033 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON


Representative Edward R. Roybal remembers the incident clearly, and painfully. A
fellow Congressman approached him several years ago and said to the California
Democrat: ''I didn't know you were a Mexican. I thought all Mexicans were short
and fat and wore mustaches.''

Mr. Roybal is a slender man of medium height, and he does not wear a mustache.
But he does wear his ethnic heritage with great pride, and he tells the story to
illustrate his argument that many lawmakers still know little about Hispanic
people, and care little about their feelings.

Lately, however, Mr. Roybal has been forcing Congress to pay a great deal of
attention to Hispanic concerns. Almost single-handedly, he has led the fight
against a bill that would tighten the nation's immigration laws, arguing that
the measure would cause discrimination against his people.

Because of his efforts, the House has delayed consideration of the measure
several times over the last year. Now the legislation - which received its final
clearance from the Rules Committee on Friday - is scheduled to reach the House
floor tomorrow for the start of perhaps as much as a week's debate. Most
analysts agree that the odds are good that Mr. Roybal and his allies will be
able to kill it or amend it severely.

''There's a lot of concern out there'' about the bill, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr.,
Speaker of the House, said last week. ''I've not found anyone in my district,
except the newspapers, that likes the bill.'' A similar measure was killed two
years ago when opponents, led by Mr. Roybal, offered dozens of amendments; the
bill was finally withdrawn. The Senate has twice adopted immigration
legislation.

To supporters like Representative Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat, Mr.
Roybal has emerged as ''the conscience of the House'' on the immigration issue.
But he has made powerful enemies in his single-minded campaign to derail the
legislation. Speaker O'Neill is openly irritated with Mr. Roybal's tactics, and
feels that the Congressman has gone back on a promise made last year to abandon
his obstructionist role and help fashion a positive alternative.

At a press briefing last week, the Speaker said he had ''leaned over backward''
to accommodate Mr. Roybal, and did not appreciate his colleague's continuing
guerrilla campaign. Another Democrat close to the issue said there has been ''a
lot of bad blood'' between Mr. Roybal and Mr. O'Neill, and added: ''The Speaker
feels he's been misled.''

Mr. Roybal points out that he has drafted an alternative approach, which would
basically beef up enforcement of existing laws. He dismisses the friction with
the Speaker as temporary. ''We're both professional politicians,'' he says.
''We'll have a drink when it's over and forget about it.''

What is not temporary is Mr. Roybal's dedication to the Hispanic cause. The
Congressman can trace his ancestry back at least eight generations in the
territory that is now New Mexico. According to family legend, his direct
ancestor was a teenage squire with the band of Spanish conquistadores who
founded Santa Fe in 1610. Roybals still occupy the remnants of an original
Spanish land grant in New Mexico, the first state to send a person of Hispanic
origin to Congress.  The first elected outside New Mexico was Representative
Henry B.  Gonzalez of San Antonio, who arrived in Washington in 1961. He was
followed a year later by Mr. Roybal, who had served 13 years on the Los Angeles
City Council. The entire Hispanic delegation still consisted of only five
members when Mr. Roybal organized the Hispanic Caucus in 1976 and became its
first chairman.  In the beginning, Mr. Roybal recalled, ''no one seemed
interested in participating,'' but the Hispanics' sense of identity seemed to
grow with their numbers, which now include nine voting members and two non-
voting delegates from Puerto Rico and the Virgin islands.

A prospective 10th voting member, Albert Bustamente, won the Democratic
nomination in the 23rd district of Texas this year; he is expected to be an easy
winner in November.

The political influence of the Hispanic lawmakers has been greatly magnified
this year by the lively competition in both parties for Hispanic voters, and the
widespread belief that these voters could determine the outcome of the
Presidential election.

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican who supports the immigration
bill, took note of this political reality recently when he said sourly: ''We've
had all three Democratic Presidential candidates, those who want to sit across
from the table of Mr. Chernenko and save the Western world, afraid of upsetting
Eddie Roybal.'' Accordingly, he added, all three Democrats oppose the
immigration bill now before Congress.  One section of the legislation that Mr.
Roybal especially dislikes would make it illegal for an employer to hire an
undocumented worker. The Congressman contends that all Americans would have to
wear ''dog tags'' to prove their citizenship.  Like many Hispanic leaders, he
also fears that employers would simply reject all foreign-looking applicants,
particularly those with Spanish accents.  To many of his colleagues, Mr.  Roybal
throughout the debate has seemed like a man with something to prove. In 1978, he
was reprimanded by the House for failing to report a $1,000 campaign
contribution from a Korean businessman and then lying to the House Ethics
Committee. Victory on the immigration bill, said one aide to the House
leadership, would be something of a vindication for the lawmaker. Moreover,
added a Democratic Representative, Mr. Roybal has always wanted to be a ''major
actor'' on the Washington scene, but has never really achieved top billing. Now
that Hispanic people have political clout, newer and younger politicians are
competing for the spotlight, and as the Democrat noted, the immigration issue
enables Mr. Roybal ''to claim national leadership of the Hispanic community.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Representative Edward R. Roybal

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              38 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL MAY BRING END TO LONG WAIT OF BOAT PEOPLE

BYLINE: By REGINALD STUART

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1082 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 25


For more than four years, thousands of Cubans and Haitians here have been
anxiously awaiting a decision by the United States Government on whether they
can stay in this country.

Now it appears that some final action may be coming. Major immigration
legislation that could ease their fears of deportation has been approved in
different forms by both houses of Congress. But uncertainty abounds, and many
Cubans and Haitians, while hoping for the best, are afraid things may go wrong.

They are the ''boat people'' who fled Cuba and Haiti for the United States in
1980 and 1981, the 125,000 people classified as ''Cuban/Haitian entrant (status
pending)'' by the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

'More Anxiety and Fear'


Uncertainty over how House and Senate negotiators resolve differences in their
immigration measures is ''creating more anxiety and fear because many of us feel
we will be sent back,'' said Claudio Tartabull, a 44- year-old Cuban. ''I try
not to think about it.''

There are several possibilities regarding their status.

The House passed the immigration legislation last week by a narrow margin, but
in it is a provision that was approved unanimously to legalize the boat people.
The provision, sponsored by Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New
Jersey, would offer them permanent legal residency.

If the conferees from the Senate do not accept the Rodino provision, the Cubans
and Haitians would be subject to what the negotiators decide on offering amnesty
to illegal aliens in general. The House measure specifies that illegal aliens
who came to this country before Jan. 1, 1982, and who have lived here
continuously since may apply for legal status. The boat people would be
eligible.

The Senate bill specifies a cutoff date of Jan. 1, 1980, and most arrived after
that. However, like the House, the Senate took account of their uncertain
status. Its general amnesty offer would make an exception to this cutoff date
specifically for Cubans and Haitians who arrived in this country before Jan. 1,
1981. Most arrived in 1980 and would be eligible, but those who came in 1981
would not.

Concern Over Temporary Status


While the Rodino amendment would offer permanent status, the general amnesty
provisions in both the Senate and House bills call for periods of temporary
status before illegal aliens, whether they are boat people or undocumented
workers, can become permanent, legal residents. In the Senate the period is
three years, in the House two.

It is the temporary period that concerns Luis Gutierrez, who came here in May
1980 from Cuba. Mr. Gutierrez, who speaks little English, has been monitoring
the legislative action in Washington over one of the Spanish- language radio
stations here.

Although the Rodino measure would let him apply immediately for permanent legal
status, Mr. Gutierrez is worried that only a general amnesty offer will survive
Congressional negotiations.

''Under temporary residency, they can throw me out of the country any time,'' he
said. Mr. Gutierrez, 38 years old, said he needed permanent status to allow him
to travel and to bring his wife and children to the United States from Cuba.

Rekindling of Debate Feared


Mr. Tartabull, who came here on May 5, 1980, along with thousands of others who
left Cuba through the port of Mariel, said he wanted his status resolved but was
afraid a rekindling of debate about Cuban boat people could erode into a
movement to send them back. Fidel Castro declared when the refugees left that
they could not return, but in recent months there have been indications that
stance could soften.

Existing law offers Cubans permanent status after one year's residence in the
United States, but the Government has processed only a few of the applications
for this status, giving rise to litigation seeking to speed up the process.

Other suits are making their way through the Federal courts on behalf of both
Cubans and Haitians seeking to establish their constitutional rights as a way to
resolve their status. Their arguments have been embraced in part by Federal
district judges in Miami and Atlanta but rejected by appeals court judges.

Unlike the Cubans, Haitians have been routinely deported by the American
authorities despite their insistence that harm might come to them. The United
States considers them economic migrants seeking a better standard of living who
do not meet the test for asylum: that they show a well-founded fear of
persecution if they returned to their homeland.

'No Other Hope'


At the Haitian Refugee Center, a resettlement counseling center, Daniel
Geffrald, a 52-year-old tailor, said, ''I don't think the uncertainty is over,
because the law isn't passed yet.''

Marie Dieudonne, a 36-year-old housecleaner, arrived here June 15, 1980, after a
four-day journey on a small boat packed with Haitians, bringing her two
daughters with her. ''I am happy about it because I don't see no other hope,''
she said of the House measure. ''I cannot go back to Haiti.''

Rulx Jean-Bart, a Haitian-American who is a professor at Miami-Dade Community
College, said he was concerned that the House's general amnesty offer, unlike
the Senate's offer or the Rodino provision, would require those who obtain
temporary status to prove they are studying American history, government and
English before they can obtain permanent status.

''When it comes to having to understand English and American history, most of
the Haitians here don't know how to read and write,'' he said. ''There is a way
to get out, to show that you are learning it, but the Justice Department will
set the standard. We are happy with the Rodino amendment but very concerned
about the rest of the bill.''

The Administration supports the idea of legal status for the boat people but not
necessarily the specifics of the Rodino amendment, said Greg J. Leo, a spokesman
for the immigration service. He explained that the Administration generally does
not support ''nationality-specific legislation.''

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, the Kentucky Democrat who sponsored the
immigration legislation in the House, said Sunday on a television interview
program that he hoped the Rodino provision would survive in the conference. ''We
think that's a very important provision of our bill,'' he said, ''and we would
urge the Senators to look very carefully and with a lot of fondness toward that
provision.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Luis Gutierrez

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              39 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

MAZZOLI BILL IS NOT HELPING AT HOME

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 698 words

DATELINE: LOUISVILLE, Ky., June 27


One thing about a city 373 miles from the nearest foreign border is that
immigration is not a hot topic on the local cocktail circuit. So while
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Democrat, has been in the news for writing
the immigration bill the House passed last week, his constituents here have been
talking about Cissy and the college degrees.

Cissy is the nickname for Elaine Musselman, a 40-year-old Republican whose
aggressive campaign against Mr. Mazzoli had attracted Democrats and women. They
did not see much value for the district in Mr. Mazzoli's immigration work, his
first major piece of legislation in 14 years in the House, and did not share his
strong antiabortion views.

But three weeks ago a television station disclosed that Miss Musselman, the head
of an insurance company who is a former president of the Louisville Chamber of
Commerce, had never received the two college degrees she had said she held.

That same week, after attending a fund-raising party in Washington, she lost
control of a rented automobile she was driving and suffered a concussion and a
neck injury.

A Lull in Campaign


With Mr. Mazzoli in Washington to shepherd the immigration bill through the
House and Miss Musselman recuperating out of town, there was a lull in the
campaign that lasted until today, when Miss Musselman came home for the first
time since the accident.

In a statement to 50 supporters at the Louisville airport, she called her
misstatements about her educational background ''a foolish and immature
mistake'' that she had made to get her first job, as a lobbyist with the
Bristol- Myers Company in Washington. She said the company had kept her on the
payroll after discovering that she did not have a bachelor of arts degree from
the University of Louisville and a masters in international relations from
American University in Washington, as she had asserted.

Saul Loeb, her campaign spokesman, said that she had not decided whether to
continue the race and that her decision would depend on her health.

''Everything that's happened has brought back Ron's basic virtues,'' said
Russell Riggs, a Louisville lawyer who is a former local Democratic chairman.
''His hard work didn't appeal to trendy people, and he'd lost some of them.''

The district hugs the Ohio River and includes this city of Louisville and the
powerful, wealthy suburbs to the east, where Democratic voters outnumber
Republicans by 3 to 1. Mr. Mazzoli, who is 51 years old, won his seat in 1970 by
running as the peace candidate in what was seen as a referendum on the Vietnam
War.

Stand on Rights Amendment


Mr. Mazzoli is a Roman Catholic and has consistently opposed abortion. But until
last year he had generally supported the proposed equal rights amendment to the
Federal Constitution. Karen Bybee, his spokesman in Washington, said he cast a
no vote last November because he disapproved of the procedures used to bring the
amendment to the floor.

''When he voted against the E.R.A., a lot of women were disturbed,'' said
Lucretia Ward, coordinator of the 1,500-member Women's Alliance, who is a member
of the Kentucky Commission on Women.

As for immigration, some of Mr. Mazzoli's constituents are not sure that the
Government can administer Mr. Mazzoli's bill. ''It sounds like it will be a real
bureaucratic wingding,'' said Betty Ann Miller, a Democrat.

His sudden national prominence has made some people in Louisville wonder whether
he is more in touch with affairs in Washington than with his district. ''I don't
care how many weekends you fly back,'' Mr. Riggs said, ''it's not like living
there.''

Miss Musselman, by contrast, had become a visible community leader and was
planning a well-financed campaign. Mr. Loeb said she had expected to raise
$500,000. Whether she can raise that much now is an open question. So is whether
she can still defeat Mr. Mazzoli.

''The public has an enormous capacity to forgive, but this is like the Tylenol
case,'' said Jessica Schikler, a partner in a Louisville advertising company who
was an early Musselman supporter. To turn something like this around takes great
skill and total honesty.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Romano L. Mazzoli; photo of Elaine Musselman

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              40 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 12, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Mondale Asked to Follow Up On Vow to Fight Bill on Aliens

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 116 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 11


Mayor Henry Cisneros of San Antonio and other Hispanic leaders said today that
they would put all the pressure they could on Walter F. Mondale and
Congressional leaders to kill a sweeping immigration bill in a House-Senate
conference this week.

''The promises they made in San Francisco are now due,'' Mr. Cisneros said in a
news conference at the Third Hispanic Conference on Immigration Reform.

Mr. Cisneros, who was on Mr. Mondale's list of possible Vice-Presidential
candidates, said he had ''no doubt whatsoever'' that Mr. Mondale would follow
through on his promises at the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco
to do everything he could to defeat the bill.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              41 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 24, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION ARTERIOSCLEROSIS

BYLINE: By Peter H. Schuck ;
Peter H. Schuck is a professor at the Yale Law School.

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 706 words

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN


With the Simpson- Mazzoli immigration bill temporarily on hold, it is time for
Congress to confront a fundamental dilemma. Strengthening immigration
enforcement without building up the rest of the administrative system would be a
perverse ''reform.'' By increasing the already large number of aliens who
languish in overcrowded prisons for long periods of time, more arrests would
simply shift the problem somewhere else.

Immigration enforcement is like a giant funnel. However large its mouth, a
funnel's capacity is limited by the size of its throat, through which the
material must eventually pass. Strengthened immigration enforcement is pouring
more and more aliens into an already overburdened funnel whose mouth and throat
remain essentially unchanged in size.

Immigration and Naturalization Service arrests have risen dramatically, from
910,361 in 1980 to 1.25 million in 1983. Simpson-Mazzoli's keystone, employer
sanctions, would add enforcement by private firms to the I.N.S.'s own efforts.
Even if they deterred some illegal aliens from entering this country, employer
sanctions would pour more apprehended aliens into the system. More important,
the I.N.S.'s new budget would increase the Border Patrol by almost one- third,
producing about 450,000 more apprehensions a year.

This enhanced enforcement capability seems like an impressive way to regain
control of our borders - until one considers how the system would handle the
nearly 1.7 million aliens who would enter it. Its holding capacity - the number
of apprehended aliens it can seek to deport - depends upon two factors: the
I.N.S.'s ability to ''detain'' (impris

on) them pending disposition of their cases and its willingness to release them
during that period.  I.N.S. detention facilities are makeshift, short-term units
whose living conditions have been severely criticized by Federal courts and
other observers. These facilities often are filled beyond capacity. Of the
aliens detained, 7 percent have been held for more than four months and some far
longer. The I.N.S. estimates that 100,000 more aliens captured each year by an
enlarged Border Patrol would have to be detained. If even a modest fraction of
these applied for asylum, which can take years to resolve, the detention period
would continue to lengthen.

This torrent must flow through immigration courts, which adjudicate each
exclusion and deportation case. They consist of 57 judges, increasing next year
to only 62. They will have received more than 125,000 applications this year, a
large increase over previous years. Although they can dispose of many cases
quickly, the growing caseload insures that already serious processing delays
will worsen. The I.N.S. can release some aliens pending hearings, but many
cannot make bond and some who are released would disappear into the population
or change by their status by, say, marrying a citizen, thus preventing their
deportation.  Two new developments could worsen the bottleneck. First, more
aliens might apply to judges for asylum; merely applying can delay deportation
proceedings for years. In the first half of 1984, such applications rose 50
percent. Second, more apprehended aliens could seek to remain by invoking
procedural rights rather than agreeing - as 98 percent do - to ''voluntary
departure,'' under which they can leave without formal proceedings. If even a
small fraction of those who accept voluntary departure asked for deportation
hearings, claimed asylum or applied for amnesty under Simpson-Mazzoli, the
funnel's throat would further constrict, collapsing the enforcement system. The
result would be mass, costly imprisonment, with immense suffering, or mass
release of aliens pending long- delayed hearings, with adverse effects on
immigration control.  Congress can no longer hope to enforce immigration law on
the cheap. It should not increase enforcement through employer sanctions and a
beefed up Border Patrol without also expanding immigration courts' capacity.
Congress must also face squarely the human implications of transforming the
I.N.S. into a long- term jailer of noncriminals whose values most Americans
admire. Otherwise, we shall see yet another example of ''reform'' gone awry.B

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              42 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 18, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

The Death of a Humane Idea

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 652 words


This is an obituary, not for the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill, which
died when Congress quit last week, but for a remarkable idea that died with it.

Freedom Day, it might have been called, and it would have been a great moment in
the history of this Nation of Immigrants. One day early next year, hundreds of
thousands of aliens, most of them Hispanic, would have lined up in church
basements and county courthouses from Amarillo to Brooklyn, eager to come in
from the cold of illegality and accept America's humane offer of amnesty.

For years, many have suffered exploitation by landlords and bosses . . . have
watched as Social Security was deducted from their pay even though it was money
down the drain . . . have so feared deportation that they avoided the police
even when robbed or raped.

The legalization provisions of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill would have turned these
fearful and furtive residents into full members of American society. That would
be reason enough to applaud the battered sponsors, Senator Alan Simpson, Wyoming
Republican, and Representative Romano Mazzoli, Tennessee Democrat. Special
commendation is due Representative Charles Schumer, Brooklyn Democrat, for an
audacious and sleepless effort that almost rescued the bill at graveside.

The bill had plenty of enemies, including growers and the Chamber of Commerce.
But none inflicted wounds more grievous than Hispanic leaders and lobbyists.


What an astonishingly liberal idea amnesty was in this era of conservatism. All
sides had agreed that aliens who could prove residence since 1981 would be
eligible. More, Washington would guarantee $4 billion over four years to offset
any added costs to local governments. Why would the Administration buy all this?
Because like many others in both parties, it was willing to pay that price to
close an enormous loophole in present immigration law, the Texas Proviso of
1952.

For an undocumented worker to take a job in this country is absolutely illegal,
it says sternly. But is it equally illegal for an employer to hire an illegal
alien? No. Thus the message to employers is, ''Hire all the illegals you want
to; the risk is all theirs.'' To poor Mexicans, the message is, ''If you're
willing to sneak in, come get much higher wages than you can dream of finding at
home.'' And to a country increasingly concerned about illegal immigration, it
says: ''Forget about controlling the border.''

To be fair, and firm, the country has to undo the Texas Proviso, and the best
remedy is employer sanctions - making it as illegal to hire as to be hired, with
painful penalties. Employer sanctions were at the heart of the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill. But it also contained something more: amnesty.

One reason for including it was to attract Congressmen uneasy about employer
sanctions. Another was that, in the present climate, amnesty standing alone
would not have a prayer. This linkage, a brilliant conception, finally failed in
both directions. Conservatives who would have cheerfully voted for sanctions
alone opposed the bill because of amnesty. Hispanic legislators, though they
wanted amnesty, opposed the bill because of sanctions. So instead of gaining
votes, the linkage probably lost some.

The Hispanic lobbyists who celebrated their role in killing the bill see no
tragedy. Yet even they must know that when the new Congress convenes, there'll
be another bill, simpler this time, calling for sanctions without amnesty -
justice without mercy - and to judge by the voting this fall, it will pass.

Perhaps leaders like Representative William Richardson of New Mexico, new
chairman of the Congressional Hispanic caucus, can respond in time to the
reality of reaction. Otherwise, the loss for Hispanic Americans is monumental.
They could have had what their spokesmen regard as the bitter with the sweet.
The forecast now is just the bitter.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              43 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. STILL BLACKLISTS 3,000 CANADIANS FOR POLITICS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 21, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18


More than 3,000 Canadian citizens are still barred from entering this country
because they have been identified as Communist Party members or sympathizers,
according to the Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The agency said this week that a list of such people was drawn up under the
terms of the 1952 McCarran-Walter Immigration and Nationalty Act. One of the
law's sections prohibits what it terms subversives - including what it defines
as Communist Party members or sympathizers - from entering the United States.

''I think it's outrageous,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts. ''We shouldn't keep people out because we don't like their
politics.''

Mr. Frank has introduced a bill to prohibit the immigration service from
excluding foreigners on the basis of their political affiliation. Mr. Frank said
he has been promised that the House Judiciary Committee's subcommittee on
immigration will hold hearings on the bill this spring.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service estimates that 8,000 people from 98
countries are restricted from entering this country because of their political
beliefs. Duke Austin, a spokesman for the agency, said that the Canadians form
the largest group excluded.

Among those whose names have appeared on the list over the years is Pierre
Elliott Trudeau, now the Canadian Prime Minister. Mr. Trudeau's attendance at an
economic conference in Moscow in 1952 prompted the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to classify him a Communist sympathizer. But his name was
struck from the list after an interview with immigration officials at the United
States consulate in Montreal in 1954.

In practice, the excluded Canadians often enter this country on highways where
border enforcement is lenient, according to an attorney with a client on the
list. They may also request a temporary waiver to legally enter the United
States.

Such waivers are good for up to one year, and virtually all requests are
granted, Mr. Austin said. To process each waiver, however, can take from two
weeks to several months and cost $500 to $1,000 in legal fees.

''It boggles my mind,'' said Martin Berger, whose family law firm in Montreal
has assisted many Canadians on the list in the past 20 years. ''I don't believe
that at any point a majority of these people were fervent Communists. And today,
they're politically harmless.''

Some Canadians on the list contend United States immigration officials treat
them as they would dangerous criminals, political terrorists and drug dealers,
who are among the other 40,000 foreigners branded as inadmissable to this
country. The list is kept at all seaports, airports and highway border
crossings.

Edward Zackon, an Ottawa insurance salesman, said United States immigration
officials have stopped him three times in American airports. Mr. Zackon, who is
62 years old, said he severed all ties with the Communist Party in 1956. But in
1971, Mr. Zackon said, he was detained in New York, questioned by an immigration
official and escorted by armed guard to his connecting flight to Montreal.

Getting off the list altogether is a difficult process. Individuals must apply
for ''defector status'' from the Communist Party, provide character affidavits
from five people and prove they have ''actively opposed the Communist doctrine''
since they left the party. This can sometimes take several years and cost
several thousand dollars in legal fees.

''Not too many go through the process,'' Mr. Austin conceded.

Canadian and United States officials said they're willing to re-examine
individual cases, but a blanket amnesty is impossible without changes in the
law..


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              44 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

The Haitians and the Lucky Law

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 462 words


Those poor 7,200 Haitians: Is there no end to the torment and inequity they must
suffer for wanting a better life in the Land of the Free? They've already proved
fitness for the Home of the Brave.

These are the Haitian boat people who were driven by persecution and poverty at
home to brave big storms in little boats and make the long, dangerous trip to
the United States. The flow has now been almost entirely stopped, but not before
7,200 landed. Others were stopped before reaching the boats. Still others were
subject to extortionate passage fees, or two weeks at sea without food - or were
thrown overboard by piratic captains.

And then, even when they made it ashore, American policy changed to require that
they be seized and put in camps. Some 1,800 were incarcerated for a hopeless
year - some became so discouraged they ate ground glass - until a Federal judge
ordered their release pending hearings on their claims to be refugees.

Now, a new unfairness arises. Many of the Haitian boat people came in 1980, at
the same time that Fidel Castro shunted off 125,000 Cubans from Mariel. The
Cubans are now probably eligible for permanent legal status - but not the 7,200
Haitians.

Why? Are the Cubans braver or more deserving? No. Because of a quirk of law. In
1966, Congress enacted a law authorizing such status for the Cubans who fled to
this country after Fidel Castro came to power. The new Cubans aim to take
advantage of that law. If the Reagan Administration does not grant permanent
status, they're sure to ask the courts for satisfaction.  There is no such lucky
law for the 7,200 Haitians. Fairness dictates that there ought to be.  The
surest route is the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill. Its amnesty
provisions would give legal status to Cubans and Haitians - and other qualified
foreigners. Simpson-Mazzoli is supported by the Administration and has already
passed the Senate. Some students of Congress are starting to worry about time
running out, but Speaker O'Neill promises that it will pass the House, in this
session.  If, for some reason, the Speaker can't keep his promise, there's a
worthy lifeboat for the Haitians. Chairman Peter Rodino of the House Judiciary
Committee, long a voice for decency, has introduced a bill to give them and
Cubans the same legal status. There's reason to think the Administration would
support it if necessary. It once made its own sensible proposal to treat both
groups the same.The trouble with the Rodino bill is that it's barely gotten to
first base. The big Simpson-Mazzoli bill has many virtues, like finally starting
a serious effort to control the borders. But for the Haitians, its most
important virtue is that it - and thus they - may be almost all the way home.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: EDITORIAL

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              45 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 20, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

JACKSON LEADS 5,000 PROTESTING IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 525 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, May 19


The Rev. Jesse Jackson led a march of an estimated 5,000 people today to protest
raids conducted by the Immigration and Naturalization Service and pending
immigration legislation.

In a style reminiscent of the civil rights era, the candidate walked at the head
of the mile-long march up Broadway. Those marching at the front with him, arms
entwined, included Latinos, Asian-Americans, blacks and whites.

Mr. Jackson is vigorously trying to make more visible his Rainbow Coalition of
various ethnic and interest groups in this state, which holds its primary June 5
and has those groups in significant numbers. Last week he appeared before a
group of Asian-Americans, homosexuals and Hispanic people.

Seeking a Wider Base


Aides to Mr. Jackson said that California offered the opportunity to make his
varied support more visible than it had been. He has steadily swept the black
vote while gaining only slight white support, polls show.

The civil rights leader underscored the theme of the various groups at a rally
on the south lawn of City Hall, where the march ended.

''I want to congratulate all of the non- Latinos who are here today,'' he said.
''Unfortunately too many for too long have seen the immigration issue as purely
a Latino problem. As a consequence, Latinos have had to fight largely on their
own.''

But he said his Rainbow Coalition had embraced their cause, and he compared the
pending bill to pre-Civil War classification of any black as three- fifths of a
person and to the interning of Japanese-Americans in World War II.

'Virtual Hysteria' Cited


The bill would impose sanctions on employers who hire illegal aliens, grant
amnesty to those who have been in the country illegally for a set period of
time, allow the temporary entry of some noncitizens for seasonal labor and
permit wider latitude to Federal agencies in seeking out undocumented workers
and preventing their return.

''There is a virtual hysteria against the undocumented, fanned by the last two
Administrations, that allows such inhumane treatment to continue,'' Mr. Jackson
said. ''This hysteria is fueled by a combination of myth, stereotype, meanness
and political expediency.''

Perhaps the one indicator today that the enthusiasm of the crowd for Mr. Jackson
was not completely representative was the absence of Cesar Chavez, president of
the United Farm Workers, who is an opponent of the bill. The rally organizers
said Mr. Chavez would be there. Dolores Huerta, vice president of the union, who
did attend, said both the march organizers and Jackson campaign officials knew
that was never the case.

She explained that the union had not endorsed any candidate. Although she and
others favored Mr. Jackson's approach, there was a loyalty in the union to
former Vice President Walter F. Mondale ''which can't be negated.'' He, like Mr.
Jackson, opposes the immigration proposal now before Congress. The other
candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination, Senator Gary Hart, has
opposed some provisions of the bill, and supported an amendment to it which many
Hispanic leaders feel is not adequate.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              46 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 6, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

COURT RULES NARROWLY IN AN IMMIGRATION CASE

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 914 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5


The Supreme Court ruled unanimously today that an alien seeking political
refugee status must demonstrate a ''clear probability'' of persecution in his
home country to avoid imminent deportation.

The Court rejected a more lenient standard of proof adopted by the United States
Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, in New York. That court ruled two years
ago, in the case of a Yugoslav who contended that his anti-Communist activities
in the United States would place him in danger if he was deported, that an alien
need show only a ''well-founded fear'' of persecution to avoid deportation.

The High Court's decision today was a narrow one, and a case that had been
expected to produce the definitive ruling on the status of political refugees
led instead to a puzzling decision of limited practical significance.

Asylum Issue Avoided


To the surprise of most people familiar with the case, the Court's opinion,
written by Associate Justice John Paul Stevens, did not define the standard that
an alien must meet to win political asylum. ''That issue is not presented by
this case,'' it said.

But all parties in the case, including the Immigration and Naturalization
Service and the civil liberties groups that were challenging the Government's
deportation standard, had assumed that the standard for avoiding deportation and
the standard for winning asylum were the same. No other court had ever suggested
that there was a difference between the two, and the point was not argued by any
party.

The standard for obtaining political asylum is a more important issue than the
standard for avoiding deportation because a ''withholding of deportation'' is
typically a last-ditch effort that an alien attempts only after all else has
failed. Asylum gives an alien the right to remain in the United States;
suspension of a particular deportation order carries no such right, and the
alien may still be deported to any other country that agrees to accept him.

Most aliens who view themselves as political refugees apply simultaneously for
both political asylum and for ''withholding of deportation.''

Asylum Is Discretionary


Under the Immigration and Naturalization Act of 1952, as amended by the Refugee
Act of 1980, the Attorney General must suspend the deportation of an alien whose
''life or freedom would be threatened'' in his home country ''on account of
race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or
political opinion.''

By contrast, a grant of asylum is discretionary. An alien who meets the legal
requirements is eligible for asylum but is not entitled to it.

The legal issue before the Court was whether the Refugee Act of 1980 made the
standard for avoiding deportation more lenient or whether it simply continued
the previous standard while using somewhat different words.

In 1968 the United States signed a United Nations protocol on the status of
refugees, which defined ''refugee'' as a person having a ''well-founded fear of
being persecuted'' in his native country. Federal law at that time used the
phrase ''clear probability of persecution.'' Neither phrase was defined with any
precision.

Congress passed the Refugee Act of 1980 in order to streamline certain
immigration procedures and to bring Federal law into conformity with the United
Nations protocol. The Immigration and Naturalization Service maintained that the
two phrases meant the same thing and that the substantive standard had not
changed. But the Court of Appeals, ruling in the case of the Yugoslav, Predrag
Stevic, said Congress had intended to make it easier for an alien to avoid
deportation.

Objective Evidence Required


The Supreme Court today rejected that interpretation. Justice Stevens said that
both the White House and the Senate believed, when the United Nations protocol
was signed in 1968, that the protocol was ''largely consistent with existing
law'' and ''did not require any modification of statutory language.'' The
Refugee Act, he said, simply carried forward the old standard, requiring an
alien to demonstrate a ''clear probability'' of persecution.

The Court defined that standard as requiring aliens to show, based on some
objective evidence, that it was ''more likely than not'' that they would face
persecution. The Court's approach seemed to differ from that of the appeals
court by de-emphasizing the subjective state of mind of the alien.

The Government had argued that the same legislative history applied to the
standard for winning asylum. Justice Department lawyers said today that by
suggesting the proceedings might be governed by different standards, the Court
was insuring a new round of litigation on the refugee issue.

That view was shared by Arthur C. Helton of the Lawyers Committee for
International Human Rights, which filed a brief on behalf of Mr. Stevic. Mr.
Helton said the Court's opinion would affect ''very few people'' while insuring
''another series of battles for another series of cases.''

The Court's failure to reach the asylum issue may indicate that the case was
more difficult than it appeared to be from the unanimous opinion. The narrow
treatment may have been the result of a behind-the-scenes compromise designed to
break a six-month deadlock. The case, I.N.S. v. Stevic, No. 82-973, was argued
Dec. 6, making it one of the oldest cases on the Court's docket. The Court does
not ordinarily take that long on a case it decides unanimously.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              47 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

ROLL-CALL VOTE IN HOUSE ON BILL TO REVISE IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1469 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


Following is the 216-to-211 roll-call vote today by which the House passed the
immigration bill. A ''yes'' vote is for the bill; a ''no'' vote is against the
bill; xxx denotes those not voting. Voting yes were 125 Democrats and 91
Republicans. Voting no were 138 Democrats and 73 Republicans.  There is one
vacancy in the 435-member House.

ALABAMA

Democrats - Bevill, no; Erdreich, no; Flippo, no; Nichols, no; Shelby, no.

Republicans - Dickinson, no; Edwards, yes.

ALASKA

Republican - Young, no.

ARIZONA

Democrats - McNulty, no; Udall, no.

Republicans - McCain, no; Rudd, no; Stump, no.

ARKANSAS

Democrats - Alexander, yes; Anthony, yes.

Republicans - Bethune, no; Hammerschmidt, yes.

CALIFORNIA

Democrats - Anderson, no; Bates, yes; Beilenson, yes; Berman, no; Bosco, no;
Boxer, no; Brown, no; Burton, no; Coelho, no; Dellums, no; Dixon, no; Dymally,
no; Edwards, no; Fazio, no; Hawkins, no; Lantos, no; Lehman, no; Levine, no;
Martinez, no; Matsui, no; Miller, no; Mineta, no; Panetta, yes; Patterson, no;
Roybal, no; Stark, yes; Torres, no; Waxman, no.

Republicans - Badham, yes; Chappie, no; Dannemeyer, yes; Dreier, no; Fiedler,
no; Hunter, no; Lagomarsino, no; Lewis, no; Lowery, yes; Lungren, yes;
McCandless, yes; Moorhead, yes; Packard, yes; Pashayan, no; Shumway, no; Thomas,
yes; Zschau, no.

COLORADO

Democrats - Kogovsek, no; Schroeder, no, Wirth, no.

Republicans - Brown, no; Kramer, no; Schaefer, yes.

CONNECTICUT

Democrats - Gejdenson, no; Kennelly, no; Morrison, no; Ratchford, no.

Republicans - Johnson, yes; McKinney, yes.

DELAWARE

Democrat - Carper, yes.

FLORIDA

Democrats - Bennett, yes; Chappell, yes; Fascell, yes; Fuqua, yes; Gibbons, yes;
Hutto, yes; Ireland, yes; Lehman, yes; MacKay, yes; Mica, yes; Nelson, yes;
Pepper, yes; Smith, yes.

Republicans - Bilirakis, no; Lewis, yes; Mack, no; McCollum, yes; Shaw, yes;
Young, yes.

GEORGIA

Democrats - Barnard, no; Darden, no; Fowler, yes; Hatcher, no; Jenkins, no;
Levitas, yes; Ray, no; Rowland, no; Thomas, no.

Republican - Gingrich, yes.

HAWAII

Democrats - Akaka, no; Heftel, yes.

IDAHO

Republicans - Craig, no; Hansen, xxx.

ILLINOIS

Democrats - Annunzio, yes; Collins, no; Durbin, yes; Evans, no; Hayes, no;
Lipinski, yes; Price, yes; Rostenkowski, yes; Russo, no; Savage, no; Simon, no;
Yates, no.

Republicans - Corcoran, yes; D. Crane, no; P. Crane, no; Erlenborn, yes; Hyde,
yes; Madigan, yes; Martin, no; Michel, yes; O'Brien, yes; Porter, no.

INDIANA

Democrats - Hall, no; Hamilton, yes; Jacobs, no; McCloskey, yes; Sharp, yes.

Republicans - Burton, yes; Coats, yes; Hiler, yes; Hillis, no; Myers, yes.

IOWA

Democrats - Bedell, yes; Harkin, yes; Smith, yes.

Republicans - Evans, yes; Leach, yes; Tauke, yes.

KANSAS

Democrats - Glickman, yes; Slattery, yes.

Republicans - Roberts, no; Whittaker, yes; Winn, yes.



KENTUCKY

Democrats - Hubbard, no; Mazzoli, yes; Natcher, yes; Perkins, no.

Republicans - Hopkins, no; Rogers, no; Snyder, no.

LOUISIANA

Democrats - Boggs, yes; Breaux, yes; Huckaby, no; Long, yes; Roemer, no; Tauzin,
no.

Republicans - Livingston, yes; Moore, no.

MAINE

Republicans - McKernan, yes; Snowe, yes.

MARYLAND

Democrats - Barnes, yes; Byron, yes; Dyson, no; Hoyer, yes; Long, yes; Mikulski,
xxx; Mitchell, no.

Republican - Holt, yes.

MASSACHUSETTS

Democrats - Boland, yes; Donnelly, yes; Early, yes; Frank, yes; Markey, no;
Mavroules, yes; Moakley, yes; O'Neill, xxx (by tradition, the House speaker
seldom votes); Shannon, xxx; Studds, yes.

Republicans - Conte, yes.

MICHIGAN

Democrats - Albosta, no; Bonior, yes; Carr, no; Conyers, no; Crockett, no;
Dingell, yes; Ford, no; Herel, no; Kildee, no; Levin, yes; Traxler, yes; Wolpe,
no.

Republicans - Broomfield, no; Davis, yes; Pursell, no; Sawyer, yes; Siljander,
no; Vander Jagt, no.

MINNESOTA

Democrats - Oberstar, no; Penny, yes; Sabo, yes; Sikorski, no; Vento, no.

Republicans - Frenzel, yes; Stangeland, yes; Weber, yes.

MISSISSIPPI

Democrats - Dowdy, yes; Montgomery, yes; Whitten, yes.

Republicans - Franklin, yes; Lott, yes.

MISSOURI

Democrats - Clay, no; Gephardt, no; Skelton, no; Volkmer, no; Wheat, no; Young,
no.

Republicans - Coleman, no; Emerson, no; Taylor, yes.

MONTANA

Democrat - Williams, xxx.

Republican - Marlenee, no.

NEBRASKA

Republicans - Bereuter, yes; Daub, no; Smith, yes.

NEVADA

Democrat - Reid, no.

Republican - Vucanovich, yes.

NEW HAMPSHIRE

Democrat - D'Amours, yes.

Republican - Gregg, yes.

NEW JERSEY

Democrats - Dwyer, yes; Florio, no; Guarini, no; Howard, yes; Hughes, no;
Minish, no; Rodino, yes; Roe, yes; Torricelli, yes.

Republicans - Courter, no; Rinaldo, no; Roukema, no; Smith, yes.

NEW MEXICO

Democrat - Richardson, no.

Republicans - Lujan, no; Skeen, no.

NEW YORK

Democrats - Ackerman, no; Addabbo, no; Biaggi, no; Downey, yes; Ferraro, no;
Garcia, no; LaFalce, yes; Lundine, yes; McHugh, yes; Mrazek, yes; Nowak, yes;
Ottinger, yes; Owens, no; Rangel, no; Scheuer, yes; Schumer, yes; Solarz, yes;
Stratton, no; Towns, no; Weiss, no.

Republicans - Boehlert, yes; Carney, no; Conable, yes; Fish, yes; Gilman, yes;
Green, yes; Horton, no; Kemp, no; Lent, no; Martin, no; McGrath, no; Molinari,
yes; Solomon, no; Wortley, yes.

NORTH CAROLINA

Democrats - Andrews, yes; Britt, yes; Clarke, yes; Hefner, yes; Jones, no; Neal,
yes; Rose, yes; Valentine, yes; Whitley, yes.

Republicans - Broyhill, yes; Martin, yes.

NORTH DAKOTA

Democrat - Dorgan, yes.






OHIO

Democrats - Applegate, no; Eckart, yes; Feighan, yes; Hall, no; Kaptur, no;
Luken, yes; Oakar, no; Pease, yes; Seiberling, yes; Stokes, no.

Republicans - DeWine, yes; Gradison, yes; Kasich, yes; Kindness, no; Latta, no;
McEwen, yes; Miller, yes; Oxley, yes; Regula, no; Williams, no; Wylie, yes.

OKLAHOMA

Democrats - English, no; Jones, yes; McCurdy, yes; Synar, yes; Watkins, no.

Republican - Edwards, no.

OREGON

Democrats - AuCoin, no; Weaver, yes; Wyden, no.

Republicans - D. Smith, yes; R. Smith, no.

PENNSYLVANIA

Democrats - Borski, no; Coyne, yes; Edgar, no; Foglietta, no; Gaydos, no;
Goodling, no; Gray, no; Harrison, yes; Kolter, no; Kostmayer, yes; Murphy, no;
Murtha, yes; Shuster, no; Walgren, yes; Yatron, no.

Republicans - Clinger, yes; Coughlin, yes; Gekas, yes; McDade, yes; Ridge, yes;
Ritter, yes; Schulze, yes; Walker, yes.

RHODE ISLAND

Democrat - St Germain, yes.

Republican - Schneider, yes.

SOUTH CAROLINA

Democrats - Derrick, yes; Spratt, yes; Tallon, yes.

Republicans - Campbell, yes; Hartnett, no; Spence, no.

SOUTH DAKOTA

Democrat - Daschle, yes.

TENNESSEE

Democrats - Boner, yes; Cooper, yes; Ford, yes; Gore, yes; Jones, yes; Lloyd,
yes.

Republicans - Duncan, no; Quillen, yes; Sundquist, no.

TEXAS

Democrats - Andrews, no; Brooks, no; Bryant, no; Coleman, no; de la Garza, no;
Frost, no; Gonzalez, no; R. Hall, no; S. Hall, no; Hance, no; Hightower, no;
Kazen, no; Leath, no; Leland, xxx; Ortiz, no; Patman, no; Pickle, yes; Stenholm,
no; Vandergriff, no; Wilson, yes; Wright, yes.

Republicans - Archer, no; Bartlett, no; Fields, no; Gramm, no; Loeffler, no;
Paul, no.

UTAH

Republicans - Hansen, yes; Marriott, no; Nielson, yes.

VERMONT

Republican - Jeffords, yes.

VIRGINIA

Democrats - Boucher, yes; Daniel, no; Olin, no; Sisisky, yes.

Republicans - Bateman, yes; Bliley, no; Parris, no; Robinson, no; Whitehurst,
yes; Wolf, yes.

WASHINGTON

Democrats - Bonker, yes; Dicks, yes; Foley, yes; Lowry, no; Swift, no.

Republicans - Chandler, yes; Morrison, yes; Pritchard, yes.

WEST VIRGINIA

Democrats - Mollohan, no; Rahall, yes; Staggers, no; Wise, no.

WISCONSIN

Democrats - Aspin, yes; Kastenmeier, yes; Kleczka, yes; Moody, yes; Obey, yes.

Republicans - Gunderson, yes; Petri, yes; Roth, no; Sensenbrenner, xxx.

WYOMING

Republican - Cheney, yes.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              48 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

WHOSE COUNTRY?;
THE ALIENS BILL REFLECTS A LARGER IDENTIRY CRISIS

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1116 words


HOUSTON



T AKEN in the long historical sweep of things, there is perhaps no more
contradictory theme in American life than immigration. Above all, the United
States has defined itself as a land of newcomers, a refuge for the downtrodden
and persecuted. It has welcomed wave upon wave of bedraggled migrants, if only,
sometimes, because their labor was needed. Indeed, in the case of one large
immigrant group - African blacks - the trip was nearly always involuntary.

But periodically, the Anglo-Saxon majority has rebelled against these influxes,
fearful that the American character, however defined, was being somehow
permanently altered or diluted by the strange newcomers.

It is a dialectic that has never been far from the American consciousness.
Nearly two centuries before Senator Pat McCarren complained in 1952 that the
United States was afflicted with ''hard-core indigestible blocs'' that could
leave the country ''overrun, perverted, contaminated, or destroyed,'' George
Washington remarked that, except for ''useful mechanics,'' there was ''no need
of encouragement'' for any more ethnically different immigrants to the unsettled
new country.

Last week, with the huddled masses grouped not only at the shores and borders
but also illegally within American cities, Congress made the latest attempt at
putting new controls on immigration.

The rhetoric included none of the racist dogma that governed efforts earlier to
shut out Asians and Eastern and Southern Europeans. Nonetheless, there was a
strong feeling that the country had lost control of its borders, and, by
extension, its very identity.

In what was obviously one of its most painful and reluctant acts in recent
years, the House of Representatives narrowly passed - the vote was 216 to 211 -
a bill that would curb the influx of illegal aliens by imposing sanctions on
employers, but would also grant amnesty to those who entered without authority
before 1982.

The Senate previously passed a similar version of the so-called Simpson-Mazzoli
bill, and now the two houses must try to reconcile their differences, which may
not be easy. In effect, the House version shuts the back door to immigration but
leaves open the front door for the close relatives of Americans and for
refugees, while the Senate version would place a numerical cap on legal
immigration too.

If the bill becomes law, it is sure to have profound effects on many parts of
the country. The best estimates - really just educated guesses - put the number
of illegal residents at six million. As many as 400,000 of them live in the
Houston metropolitan area, 1 million in the rest of Texas, 1.1 million in
California, and perhaps 1 million or more in the New York metropolitan area.

The largest number are Mexicans, but in New York and other cities they are of
every conceivable origin - Philippine, Yugoslav, Salvadoran, Bangladeshi, even
British and Japanese. The anguish in Congress reflects the intractability of the
issue and all the contradictions it underscores. Yet, in the view of Lawrence H.
Fuchs, the Brandeis professor of American Studies who was executive director of
the Congressionally created Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy,
the bill reaffirms the abolition, in 1965, of the racial and ethnic quotas
implemented in an attempt to preserve the predominantly white Anglo-Saxon
character.

Signs of ResentmentThis is not the xenophobia of the early 1900's or even the
1930's,'' he said. ''The United States has become a very different country. It
not only celebrates ethnic identity, but is not terribly frightened that so many
new folks are Asians and Latin Americans. The problem is that so many have come
in outside of the law.''

Still, there is evidence that xenophobia - or at least a fear of alien
influences - is at work. In Dade County, the Miami area of Florida, an ordinance
prohibits the county from transacting business in any language but English. A
move is afoot to pass a constitutional amendment establishing English as the
official language. And the Simpson- Mazzoli bill would require illegal residents
given amnesty to speak some English and learn some American history to qualify
for permanent residence. Resentment against bilingual education and signs in
Spanish has cropped up in many parts of the country. But more stringent control
of immigrants also cuts against another grain of American society - resentment
of government intrusion. Speaking for the Population Council in New York,
Charles B. Keely contends that the bill says less about immigration than it does
about the nation's ''rock- bottom ambiguity'' toward the kind of government
controls that might be needed to achieve true control of the borders.

Since it does not include a system of national identity cards, Mr. Keely said,
the Simpson-Mazzoli bill lacks teeth. That is a tough issue for an
Administration pledged at once to control the borders and to get government out
of people's lives.

Part of the problem is the extraordinarily loose definition of who is an
American. The Constitution confers citizenship on anybody born in the United
States. Further, existing law allows close relatives of American residents to
immigrate.

Few other industrialized countries offer such generous terms. West Germany, for
example, determines citizenship by parentage. Children of Turkish ''guest
workers'' born in Germany, though they may be educated in German schools and
speak fluent German, are not considered German and can be expelled at any time.
Britain, too, has recently tightened its definition of nationality to limit the
number of Hong Kong Chinese and other holders of British passports taking up
residence in Britain.

Even if all illegal immigration could be cut off, the long-term prospects for
controlling the tide are not good, in the view of many experts. This is because
the law encourages what might be called ''chain migration,'' whereby immigrants
who have established residence, as would many under the amnesty provision, can
bring in their relatives.

What has made this influx all the more apparent is that it comes at a time when
American fertility is nearly as low as it has ever been, 50 percent below the
peak of the baby boom 25 years ago. This means that an increasing proportion of
American population growth, particularly in big cities, is coming not from
births but from in- migration. This is very rapidly changing the character of
places like Los Angeles and Miami, and some experts who welcome immigration
nonetheless feel that some cap on legal immigration might be needed lest a
growing backlash among native-born Americans results in more Draconian
restrictions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of the border at El Paso

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              49 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 29, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO SEES PERILS IN PROPOSED CHANGES IN U.S. IMMIGRATION LAWS

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 28


Mexico expressed concern today that proposed changes in United States
immigration laws could ''seriously undercut and injure the human and labor
rights of Mexican workers.''

The Government said if the proposed measure was enacted, it would ''strengthen
and broaden'' its system of consular offices in the United States to ''put into
action all the resources at its disposal to protect its nationals and demand for
them the full respect for their rights.''

It also said the immigration issue would ''remain a fundamental theme in the
political and economic relations between Mexico and the United States.''

The statement, issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was the Government's
first official comment since the passage of the so-called Simpson-Mazzoli
legislation by the House of Representatives earlier this month.

Its tone was mild by comparison with recent statements by labor and peasant
organizations, which have described the proposed law as racist, repressive and
an agressive act against Mexico.

What the House Version Says

The immigration measure was put together by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican
of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. In the
House version, its key provisions would impose fines on companies that knowingly
employ illegal aliens and would offer amnesty to illegal residents who can
demonstrate they have lived in the United States continuously since January
1982.

The Senate has passed a similar version of the legislation, but differences
between the two would have to be worked out in conference before the bill could
become law.

The Mexican Government said President Miguel de la Madrid, during his visit to
Washington last month, underscored to President Reagan that ''migratory workers
make a real contribution to the North American economy.''

It said this contribution should be accompanied, ''for reasons of basic
equality, by just and dignified treatment'' on the part of the United States.

500,000 Live in U.S. Illegally

The House version of the immigration measure would provide for a ''guest
worker'' program that would allow farmers to bring in workers for up to 11
months to ''perform services or labor in seasonal agricultural employment.''

Such a provision is not included in the Senate measure, however, and appears to
have encountered new opposition among House members since its passage. It would
not come close, in any case, to permitting the numbers of Mexicans who currently
sneak across the border to find jobs and higher salaries in the United States.

Mexican researchers estimate that some 500,000 Mexicans live in the United
States illegally year-round, with the number rising to 1.5 million to 1.75
million during the summer and fall harvests in the southern United States.  The
Government said it would ''make an effort, although in a moment of economic
difficulty, to take full advantage in our country of these valuable human
resources.'' But with unemployment here estimated at more than 10 percent and
underemployment at 40 percent, success in this effort appears unlikely.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              50 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 30, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BRIEFING;
Shultz's Travels

BYLINE: By James F. Clarity and Warren Weaver Jr.

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 224 words


Partly to avoid Congressional

criticism and partly in the interests of good government, Secretary of State
George P. Shultz plans to make a trip to Capitol Hill Sept. 11 to discuss
immigration quotas with House and Senate subcommittee members.

The Secretary was scheduled to make such a visit at about this time last year
but sent several subordinates in his place, explaining that he was busy at the
opening of the United Nations General Assembly. This nettled at least one
powerful Republican Senator, Alan K. Simpson of Wyoming, chairman of the
subcommittee on immigration and refugee policy. As one of the Capitol's abler
needlers, the Senator wondered aloud whether the Secretary of State was
seriously interested in fulfillng the provisions of the Refugee Act of 1980,
according to a State Department aide. That Act says the Secretary of State
should annually submit to the House and Senate his department's report on how
many immigrants should be admitted to the United States in the forthcoming
fiscal year. The Congressional committees and the department then discuss the
numbers and promulgate the quotas for the next year.

In the first year of the Act, 1980, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance appeared
before the committees, but department deputies and assistants have made the
appearances for the Reagan Administration.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              51 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 1, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
7 Refused Citizenship For Inadequate English

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 128 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Sept. 30


A Federal district judge has refused to swear in seven people as United States
citizens because they could not speak adequate English, even though they
apparently were exempt from the language requirement, an immigration official
says.

Judge Kendall Sharp told the Immigration and Naturalization Service that he had
refused to grant citizenship to the seven because he did not believe in a law
that waives the English-language requirement for immigrants at least 50 years
old who have lived in the United States for at least 20 years, according to
George Waldroup, an I.N.S. spokesman in Miami.

Other immigrants must be able to speak and write English to become citizens. The
seven who were denied citizenship will get another hearing, Mr. Waldroup said.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              52 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

MESSAGE OF IMMIGRATION BILL IS DISPUTED

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words


This year's failed immigration bill, students of United States immigration
policies agree, was in the American tradition of welcoming newcomers while
keeping the ''golden door'' from opening too wide. The students disagree,
however, on whether the principal message of the bill, which died when Congress
adjourned yesterday without approving it, was ''come in'' or ''keep out.''

Oscar Handlin, Carl H. Pforzheimer professor at Harvard University, an authority
on the history of immigration, called the bill ''a more liberal measure than any
we've had in 90 years.'' Although it would have cracked down on the entry of
illegal aliens, he said it was ''liberalizing'' in every other regard. ''I can't
conceive of this happening even 30 years ago,'' Professor Handlin said.

But Richard Wade, a professor of history at the City University Graduate Center,
found the bill, in essence, ''identical with the restrictive legislation of the
1920's, when we were trying to keep certain groups out of the country.'' ''Now
we are trying to 'control our borders,' which amounts to keeping out low-income
Mexicans,'' he said.

'Part of the Ebb and Flow'


The Rev. Andrew M. Greeley, director of the Center for the Study of American
Pluralism at the University of Chicago, saw the measure as ''part of the ebb and
flow of America's attitudes to newcomers.'' He reviewed the history: ''The
Founding Fathers worried about the Germans and the Irish; the Germans and the
Irish worried about the Poles and the Italians; now, the Poles and the Italians
worry about the Hispanics and the Asians. I don't think anything is different.''

Father Greeley summed up 200 years of what he called ''our national
ambivalence'' toward newcomers: ''We don't like to let people in and could never
permit unrestricted immigration, but we can't adopt the sort of restrictions
that other countries impose. That would go against American ideals.''

History supports that view. In the first century of the Republic, settlers and
laborers were needed, and immigration, mainly from northern and western Europe,
was encouraged. Although the influx from Ireland after the potato crop failures
of the 1840's aroused anti-Catholic feelings, no measures were taken to restrict
entry.

In the 1870's, however, an economic depression brought calls by labor leaders,
particularly in the West, for a clampdown on the entry of Chinese workers.
Conspicuously different from most Americans and without political power since
they were not permitted citizenship, the Chinese made easy targets, and the
Chinese Exclusion Acts of the 1880's barred their entry. The Japanese were kept
out by a ''gentlemen's agreement'' between Tokyo and Washington in the early
1900's.

Others on Not-Wanted List

Restrictions on most Asians were retained in a 1917 codification of immigration
laws. They were joined on the not-wanted list by the Italians and Jews who had
been coming to the United States in large numbers and who, some Americans
feared, would prove ''unassimilable.'' A provision of the new bill, aimed
specifically at them, added illiteracy to the reasons for keeping people out.

This group was also a main target of the restrictive 1924 National Origins Act,
the most important immigration measure up to that time and for decades
afterward. It set a quota for each nationality based on the number of its
members already in the United States, as well as an overall ceiling of 150,000
immigrants a year. Most Asians were barred entirely.

The quota system, frankly designed to favor immigration from western and
northern Europe at the expense of most other areas, remained the law until after
World War II.

Although restrictions were eased as the war ended, particularly to admit
''displaced persons'' from Germany, Italy and Austria, the national origins
quota was retained in the first major postwar revision of immigration law, the
McCarren-Walter Act. It became law in 1952 over the veto of President Truman.

Race as Bar Eliminated

The 1952 law did, however, eliminate race as a bar to citizenship; for the first
time in American history, Asians were permitted to become citizens.

Not until 1965 was the national origins quota system, which had been
passionately attacked over the years, scrapped. The key passage of the new law
reflected profound changes in national attitudes: ''No person shall receive any
preference or priority or be discriminated against in the issuance of an
immigration visa because of his race, sex, nationality, place of birth or place
of residence.''

Overall limits on immigration were retained, however, and a preference system
was set up that gave priority to relatives of United States residents and to
immigrants with needed talents and skills. Each country in the Eastern
hemisphere was allowed 20,000 places, a welcome step to Italians and Greeks.

In another major change, an effort to hold down the entrance of Mexicans, the
1965 law placed a ceiling of 120,000 on immigration from the Western Hemisphere.
Some students date to this legislation the flow of ''illegals'' that would soon
become a source of national concern and in time would lead to this year's bill,
sponsored by Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, and Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming.

Economic Times Became Bad

Although newcomers from countries in this hemisphere had been exempt from
quotas, and Mexicans in particular were often welcomed as cheap labor, the
welcome wore out when times turned bad.

In the Depression of the 1930's, 500,000 people of Mexican descent, most of them
United States citizens, were ''repatriated'' to Mexico by Federal immigration
officials. In World War II, when the United States needed workers, Mexicans were
again welcomed, only to be expelled in the 1950's in a Government campaign.

The heavily publicized entry of hundreds of thousands of ''undocumented
aliens,'' mostly from Mexico, brought demands in the 1970's to ''stem the
tide.'' Congress responded in 1976 with an amendment to the Immigration and
Nationality Act that, for the first time, imposed an annual limit of 20,000
immigrants on each country in this hemisphere and subjected them to the
preference system in effect for other nations.

The immediate effect was to cut in half the legal immigrants from Mexico, who
had been running at far over 20,000 for a decade. But the illegal immigrants
kept coming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              53 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 12, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

AMID CHARGES, IMMIGRATION BILL DIES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1284 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11


Congress today failed in its three-year struggle to shape the most important
change in immigration law in three decades.

As Congress neared adjournment today, supporters of the legislation conceded it
was dead. They said they would continue their efforts next year, when
legislative action would have to start all over again.

Democrats and Republicans blamed one another. Republicans said the Democratic
House leadership had delayed the bill so it would perish in the maelstrom at the
session's end. Democrats said the Reagan Administration had helped kill the
measure by balking at its cost.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who supported the bill,
said: ''Its death is a classic symptom of the problem with our politics. The
special interest prevails over the general interest.''

But opponents said the authors of the bill had tried to accommodate too many
interests and had gone too far in too many directions. The measure would have
been the most sweeping revision of immigration law in three decades. A leaner,
less ambitious bill, the critics said, would have had an easier time than the
omnibus legislation sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.

Divisions Over Particulars

While there was a consensus on the need to do something about illegal
immigration, there were deep divisions in the House over the merits of this
particular bill. It would have established fines and prison terms for employers
who knowingly hired illegal aliens, offered legal status to at least two million
such aliens and increased the number of temporary foreign workers in the United
States.

Representative Henry J. Hyde, Republican of Illinois, said: ''The legislative
process worked. But there was an ambivalence that could not produce the
necessary consensus for any version of the bill. Too many people, for different
reasons, did not want a bill.''

The legislation was pronounced dead on several occasions, only to be resurrected
again and again. As one lawmaker said, ''The bill looks dead, but it moves every
time you beat it with a stick.''

It appeared to have died last October, when the Speaker of the House, Thomas P.
O'Neill Jr., blocked action at the request of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
After being denounced by supporters of the bill, Mr. O'Neill allowed it to come
to the floor in June. There were seven days of impassioned debate before the
House approved it, 216 to 211.

Again on Sept. 26, the measure was pronounced dead when House and Senate
conferees adjourned in disagreement over how to prevent job discrimination
against legal aliens. Mr. Schumer drafted a compromise on this issue, which the
conferees approved this week, 15 to 8. But immediately they became deadlocked on
another matter: whether to impose a limit on Federal payments to states for
welfare benefits to illegal aliens who would gain legal status under the bill.
That was the deadlock the legislators could not break.

Many supporters of the bill expressed reservations about one element or another.
Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, said he had ''bent over to
the point almost of breaking in order to have a bill.'' Seventy-seven
representatives who voted for the bill on final passage also supported Mr.
McCollum's proposal to delete the amnesty for illegal aliens.

Insistence on Civil Rights

House Democrats, led by Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, insisted
on strong civil rights protections for legal aliens. Mr. Simpson finally
accepted those guarantees while expressing ''the gravest reservations.''

Perhaps the clearest symbol of the problem was the fact that groups representing
employers, such as the American Farm Bureau Federation, and groups representing
employees, such as the United Farm Workers of America, preferred the status quo
to the bill drafted by the conferees. Farmers said the measure did not
adequately address their need for workers to harvest perishable commodities. But
Ray Denison, chief lobbyist for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said the bill was ''overly
generous to agribusiness'' and ''moves toward legal peonage in America's
fields.''

The Reagan Administration, although publicly committed to the measure, was
lukewarm in its support. Mr. Simpson insisted that ''this is not an
Administration bill,'' and he said the Administration sometimes seemed to be
''one of the toughest adversaries.''

The Administration had three concerns. David A. Stockman, director of the Office
of Management and Budget, was worried about the cost. Californians at the White
House and Agriculture Department officials sympathized with California farmers
who have historically depended on illegal aliens to perform field work. Other
conservatives in the Administration disliked the bill because they believed it
would impose new burdens on business and expand the role of Government in
regulating the economy, the migration of people and their right to work.

At the same time, many liberals opposed the bill as a possible threat to the
civil rights of Hispanic-Americans and other minority groups. Libertarians on
the left and right feared that the bill might be a first step toward a national
identification system, since employers would have had to ask all job applicants
for documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in
the United States.

The White House became even more cautious when immigration emerged as an issue
in the Presidential campaign. Walter F. Mondale, the Democratic nominee,
denounced the measure as discriminatory. Republican strategists had no desire to
highlight the difference on this issue between Mr. Mondale and Mr. Reagan, who
had promised to sign the bill.

Tactical Error Seen

Lawmakers said that Mr. Mazzoli may have made a tactical error by not working
more closely with the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative
Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey. Mr. Rodino, whose father was born
in Italy, has fought against discriminatory immigration policies and sought to
end the exploitation of aliens throughout his 36 years in Congress.

Congress twice passed Mr. Rodino's bill to outlaw the hiring of illegal aliens,
in 1972 and 1973, but each time it died in the Senate. Mr. Rodino insisted this
year that a bill to halt the influx of illegal aliens should not restrict legal
immigration or abridge the rights of legal aliens. The basic goal of legal
immigration, he noted, is to reunify families.

Some conferees said employers should be able to hire citizens in preference to
legal aliens. Mr. Rodino rejected that notion, saying an employer should not be
allowed to discriminate against an individual because of his citizenship or
immigration status. The United States, he said, welcomes refugees and immigrants
and requires them to work, so any impediment to work would be contrary to basic
immigration policy.

The immigration bill would have forbidden employers to hire illegal aliens. The
legislation's sponsors said they did not intend to encourage discrimination
against legal aliens. But they had great difficulty in devising a formula to
prevent such discrimination. The bill would inevitably have made employers more
sensitive to the citizenship status of job applicants.

When the bill died, there was sorrow, but also relief. The conference report
faced a possible filibuster in the Senate. Because the bill came so close to
passing, supporters of the bill had reason to hope that with some slight
rearrangement of the bill's components, they could muster the support needed to
pass it in the next Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Alan Simpson and Romano Mazzoli

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              54 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 11, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Prelate Accused of Nazi Past Said to Fight Lisbon Ouster

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 16, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 165 words

DATELINE: LISBON, Nov. 10


Archbishop Valerian Trifa, a 70-year-old Rumanian Orthodox prelate whom Portugal
has declared undesirable, has told the police he will appeal to the Supreme
Administrative Court a ruling denying him residence here, the news agency
Noticias de Portugal reported.

The Archbishop was deported from the United States last August after admitting
lying to immigration authorities to cover up his fascist sympathies when he
entered the country 32 years before. He was accused of being connected with
Rumania's Iron Guard, a fascist group held responsible for the murders of
hundreds of Jews and Christians in World War II, and of being connected with
anti-Jewish rioting in 1941 in which hundreds died.

Archbishop Trifa entered Portugal in August on a temporary visa that officials
said was granted without knowledge of his background. The Interior Ministry said
this week it was against Portugal's interests for Archbishop Trifa to live here
and he must leave as soon as possible.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              55 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 12, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. LAW IS VIEWED AS POSSIBLE OBSTACLE TO CUBANS' RETURN

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11


United States immigration law may complicate and delay efforts to return Cuban
criminals and mental patients being held in American institutions, according to
immigration lawyers in Government and private practice.

Havana has agreed in principle to take back some 2,500 Cubans who came to this
country in the ''freedom flotilla'' of 1980, Administration officials have said.

But the agreement cannot be carried out immediately, the lawyers said, because a
Federal district judge in Atlanta has set aside ''all final orders of
exclusion'' for the Cubans and has ordered the Board of Immigration Appeals to
hold a hearing to decide whether they are entitled to asylum here.

Judge Marvin H. Shoob ruled on Oct. 15 that the board had ''abused its
discretion'' in declining to review the Cubans' asylum claims. The board, he
said, used ''an erroneous and improper legal standard,'' prejudged the merits of
the case and disregarded evidence tending to show that the Cubans had a
well-founded fear of persecution in their homeland.

Barbara V. Tinsley, an assistant United States attorney in Atlanta, said today
that the Government had not yet filed notice of an appeal. The deadline for such
a notice is Thursday, she said. She said the decision was ''appealable,'' but
she could not say whether the Government would exercise its right to challenge
the ruling.

At a hearing before Judge Shoob in October, lawyers for the Cubans presented
evidence suggesting that they might be tortured or persecuted if they were sent
back to Cuba. The evidence indicated that a group of 13 Cubans who came to this
country in 1980 and voluntarily went back, to rejoin their families, were
punished by Cuba because they had taken part in the boatlift.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              56 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. MOVING TO DEPORT WIFE OF A CITIZEN

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 710 words


Federal immigration authorities have begun deportation proceedings against a
Salvadoran woman whose husband and 2-year-old son are American citizens. The
action reverses earlier decisions that have allowed her to remain in New York
City for nearly five years.

The woman, Maria Clemencia Turcios de Silverio, has been told by the New York
office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service that she must leave the
country by tomorrow or be deported. According to Barry Oppenheim, an attorney
for Mrs. Silverio, the warning came in a meeting with immigration officials on
Dec. 31.

Mr. Oppenheim said he was pleading Mrs. Silverio's case this weekend before
immigration, consular and Congressional officials in an effort to delay the
deportation.

Previous rulings on Mrs. Silverio's case would have guaranteed her the right to
remain in the United States while her request for immigrant status was being
processed. Being the spouse or parent of an American citizen normally entitles a
foreigner to preferences in immigration.

''I cannot understand why this is happening,'' said Mrs. Silverio's husband,
Alejandro, who came to New York City from the Dominican Republic in 1972 and was
naturalized in 1981. ''If I am an American citizen and have a wife, I cannot see
the motive for them not wanting to give her the right to live here with me and
our son.''

Mr. and Mrs. Silverio were married July 7, 1983. They live in the Bronx with
their son, Lisandro.

Illegal Entries Cited

The district director of the Immigration Service, Charles Sava, and his deputy,
James A. Jasey, did not respond to several telephone calls concerning Mrs.
Silverio's case. But Scott Blackman, head of the deportation branch, said Mrs.
Silverio ''has to leave the country because she has been ordered to leave.''

When asked for details, Mr. Blackman said the ''underlying reason'' for Mrs.
Silverio's forced departure was that she had been ''found to be deportable''
because she twice entered the country illegally in the late 1970's.

Immigration and Naturalization Service records show, however, that despite those
offenses, immigration authorities on several occasions since 1980 have approved
Mrs. Silverio's requests to remain in the United States.

In addition, an immigration judge ruled in November that, although Mrs.
Silverio's illegal entry was ''not to be condoned,'' her status as the spouse
and mother of American citizens outweighed the earlier offense and warranted a
suspension of the government's order of deportation.

No Deferral Offered

Under Federal law, immigration officials have wide discretionary powers and can
defer action on deportation orders for various reasons, including family
considerations.

But Mr. Blackman indicated that the Government was unwilling to give special
treatment to Mrs. Silverio, arguing that she had failed to comply with
directives to report to the United States consulate in Mexico for processing of
her immigration requests.

''When she leaves, she can go to any country she chooses,'' he said.

But Mr. Oppenheim, Mrs. Silverio's attorney, said Mexico and the Dominican
Republic, her husband's homeland, had refused to grant her entry visas because
there was no guarantee that she would ever be readmitted to the United States.

According to Mr. Oppenheim, the immigration service also sent Mrs. Silverio's
file to United States officials in El Salvador last month and failed to inform
her of that change. Mr. Blackman, asked about this, said he had ''no immediate
knowledge'' of the file's whereabouts.

Mrs. Silverio said she feared for her life if she were forced to return to El
Salvador and apply for readmission to the United States. She said she was afraid
her ties to the United States would make her a target of political assassins.

Mrs. Silverio's situation is further complicated by the fact that her husband
was wounded by robbers at work last fall when he went to the aid of his
employer. After surgery on his right arm, he is now undergoing rehabilitation
and receiving disability payments.

Mrs. Silverio said that, if she were deported, her family might have to go on
welfare, which could give the immigration authorities grounds to deny her re-
entry.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Maria Clemencia Turcios de Silverio with her husband,
Alejandro, and their son, Lisandro, at home in the Bronx

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              57 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

Immigration Official Quits

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 61, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 48 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 18


Gerald Riso, deputy commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
has resigned effective Feb. 24 to return to private business. Alan Nelson, in
announcing the resignation Friday, said Mr. Riso was instrumental in preparing
pending immigration reform legislation.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              58 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 22, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Official Urges Inquiry Into Deporting of Youth

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 148 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 21


An immigration official today called for an investigation of agents who deported
a 14-year-old Mexican youth who was in the United States legally.

The youth, Mario Moreno Lopez of Santa Ana, said Immigration and Naturalization
Service agents intimidated him into waiving his rights and that he sneaked back
into the United States after being taken to Tijuana. The boy was found wandering
in San Diego late Monday and was reunited with his older brother today, five
days after he was dropped off at the border.

Because of discrepancies between the boy's statements and immigration agency
accounts of his experience after he was rounded up on a Santa Ana street corner
Feb. 15 with 33 other suspected illegal aliens, Ernest Gustafson, district
director of the immigration service, said he was asking the Justice Department's
Office of Professional Responsibility to investigate.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              59 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 March 2, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION REFORM TOO TOUGH ON REFUGEES

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 378 words


To the Editor:


In a Feb. 19 news article, U.S. immigration service officials are quoted as
describing pending immigration reform legislation (the Simpson-Mazzoli Bill) as
a solution for about 120,000 asylum applicants whose cases are pending in the
United States.

The goal sought by the legislation is laudable, but the manner in which that
goal is achieved is fraught with risk. In fact, if enacted in its current form,
the legislation would adversely affect refugees.


* The legislation introduces a new ''summary exclusion'' procedure which makes
it possible to turn back at the border those aliens who do not have valid
passports or visas - and many people who flee persecution in their own countries
arrive without personal documents.

Moreover, many will be hesitant to make their claims to uniformed border
officials, who may remind them of oppressive authorities back home. Safeguards,
such as announcing the right to counsel and the right to apply for asylum, would
be necessary to protect refugees from being returned to territories where they
would face persecution.


* Other provisions would diminish refugees' access to Federal courts, and the
courts have recently played an important corrective role on behalf of asylum
seekers, including Haitians and Salvadorans. Access to the courts to insure fair
consideration of asylum claims should be maintained.


* Strict time limitations would be imposed upon refugees. Given the particularly
vulnerable situation of people who are often unfamiliar with our language and
our legal system, and who may have undertaken long and perilous journeys through
unfamiliar territories, those limitations may cause great injustices. Sufficient
flexibility should be permitted so that asylum seekers will have enough time to
obtain legal assistance and to present their claims adequately.  Immigration
reform is surely desirable, and fair and expeditious asylum determination is a
humane goal. However, it is important not to let the desire for reform lead to
procedures that deny refuge to those who really are fleeing persecution.

ARTHUR C. HELTON New York, Feb. 22, 1984

The writer heads the political asylum project of the Lawyers Committee for
International Human Rights.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              60 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 14, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

WHEN A ROUTINE VISA TO U.S. ISN'T ROUTINE



BYLINE:
By STEPHEN ENGELBERG

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1023 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 13


Two weeks before El Salvador chooses a new President, the United States finds
itself in the curious position of supporting the elections but discouraging
visits to this country by any of the six candidates.

The announcement by the State Department last week that the presidential
contenders would be discouraged from applying for visas was the latest twist in
the application of a McCarthy-era immigration law that has stirred criticism
from both the right and the left.

Some seven million people routinely receive permission to enter the United
States each year. But in the last two decades, a small but well- publicized
group of journalists, political figures and scholars have been refused visas
because their visits were viewed as ''prejudicial'' to American interests
abroad.

In its first three years, the Reagan Administration has rejected roughly the
same number of visa applications for political reasons as the Carter
Administration, according to State Department records. But President Reagan's
actions under the 1952 McCarran-Walter Immigration Act have nonetheless spurred
protests because many of those turned down are critics of American foreign
policy.

33 Reasons for Rejection

There are 33 grounds for refusing a visa to an alien, ranging from evidence of
drug abuse to the advocacy of anarchy. Two sections of the law cover most of the
politically sensitive cases. One provides for the denial of visas to applicants
belonging to a proscribed organization like the Communist Party, and the other
allows the State Department to reject anyone it has reason to believe would
''engage in activities which would be prejudicial to the public interest, or
endanger the welfare, safety or security of the United States.''

In the case of the Salvadoran presidential aspirants, the State Department's
announcement was aimed at one candidate in particular: Roberto d'Aubuisson, a
former military officer who has been linked to the activities of death squads in
El Salvador.

State Department officials, saying they believe an electoral victory by Mr.
d'Aubuisson would make it more difficult for the Administration to muster
Congressional support for its policy on Central America, asserted that they did
not want to signal any official toleration of his political style on the eve of
the March 25 elections.

The Administration recently defended its use of the immigration law in Federal
court, and it provided some details about the secret deliberations that
accompany the denial of a visa.

'Extremely Important Aspect'

Responding to lawsuits filed in Washington by New York City and by several
groups that had unsuccessfully tried to invite foreign visitors to give
speeches, Under Secretary of State Lawrence S. Eagleburger said, ''The power to
deny aliens admission to the United States for foreign policy reasons, although
rarely exercised, is an extremely important aspect of the Executive's ability to
conduct the foreign relations of the United States.''

''The issuance or denial of a visa to a foreign government official,'' Mr.
Eagleburger wrote in a sworn statement, ''may be taken by the alien's government
as a reflection of United States foreign policy vis- a-vis that government.
Similarly, the denial of visas to foreign government officials is one of the
tools available to a Government to communicate its attitude about the policies
of other states.''

The lawsuits were filed after the State Department refused visas to Tomas Borge,
the Interior Minister of Nicaragua; Nino Pasti, a retired Italian Army general
opposed to the deployment of American missiles in Europe, and two Cuban women,
Olga Finlay and Leonor Rodriguez Lezcano.

New York City joined the case because the city's Commission on the Status of
Women had invited Miss Finlay and Miss Rodriguez to discuss the role of women in
Cuban society.

First Amendment an Issue

The suits argue that the visa denials violate the First Amendment rights of
Americans in the prospective audiences. They contend that Administration
officials ''have employed their visa authority to shape and limit political
debate within the United States.''

Mr. Eagleburger told the court that the reasons for the visa denials were
classified, and he offered to submit an affidavit in closed session. In denying
that the visa actions were motivated by an effort to stifle debate on foreign
policy issues, he offered some explanation of the State Department's procedures
on such denials.

Each case begins with an application by an alien or his government to a United
States consular officer abroad. Because of the sensitivity of visa questions,
possible denials under the political sections of the act are automatically sent
to senior officials of the State Department, Mr. Eagleburger said.

The intelligence agencies and the Department of Justice are then consulted for
what Mr. Eagleburger described as ''routine checks.''

'The Ultimate Determination'

''Depending on the sensitivity of the case,'' he said, ''the ultimate
determination may be made either by the Secretary of State or myself in the
light of Administration foreign policy goals and objectives.''

Mr. Eagleburger, the third-ranking official in the State Department, said he
personally decided to deny a visa to Mr. Borge, the Nicaraguan Interior
Minister.

He said Mr. Pasti's application was denied because he belongs to an
organization, the World Peace Council, that is considered an ''instrumentality''
of the Soviet Government by the State Department.

The two Cuban women were apparently denied visas because the United States
considered their trip to be of an ''official governmental nature,'' he said. The
trip included speeches in New York and before groups like the Cornell Women's
Studies Program and the Harvard University Law School's Women's Law Association.

Miss Finlay was allowed to travel to the United States a month later to attend a
conference when ''the purpose of her trip was, however, altogether different and
not in conflict with United States foreign policy interests,'' the Government
said in court papers.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              61 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 22, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Officials May Overlook Caravan of Refugees

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 140 words

DATELINE: BURLINGTON, Vt., March 21


Federal immigration officials say they doubt they will take legal action against
a group transporting a family of illegal immigrants to Vermont.

The Guatemalan family of seven, accompanied by a group that calls itself an
''underground railroad'' is to arrive in Vermont Saturday. The monks at Weston
Priory in Weston, Vt., have offered the family sanctuary.

The priory is one of 110 churches and other religious institutions in the
country that have declared themselves sanctuaries for refugees.

Immigration officials said the group transporting the family was committing a
felony. But Arthur Poulin Jr., director of the Vermont and Maine district office
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, indicated that charges were
unlikely.

''I'm not rushing right out for them,'' he said. ''We have bigger fish to fry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              62 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 13, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CHINESE TECHNICIAN CLIMBS OUT OF CONSULATE

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. GREER

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 330 words


A Chinese businessman lowered himself out a window of the 20-story Chinese
Consulate in Manhattan early yesterday in what is being investigated as an
attempt to seek political asylum here, authorities said.

The man, Zhang Zhenggao, a 46-year-old petroleum technician, was using a fire
hose to lower himself when it gave way and he fell, breaking his left ankle. It
was unclear last night how many stories he had fallen.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service was questioning Mr. Zhang yesterday
after officials at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center - where he was
taken for treatment - said he had asked for asylum.

''I understand he is seeking political asylum,'' said Dan Sorrenti, the director
of public relations at St. Vincent's. Immigration officials ''transported him to
his room and they will be with him all night and tomorrow,'' Mr. Sorrenti said
yesterday.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, Duke
Austin, would not say whether Mr. Zhang had asked for political asylum.

''We cannot confirm or deny when anyone asks for asylum until they go public,''
Mr. Austin said.

At 2:30 A.M. the police found Mr. Zhang on the roof of a one-story New York
Telephone Company garage, next to the Chinese Consulate at 520 12th Avenue, at
West 42d Street. He was taken to St. Vincent's where he underwent one and a half
hours of surgery to reconstruct his left ankle.

A spokesman for the Chinese Consulate, Zhang Qinpu, said Mr. Zhang had arrived
in New York Sunday with four other Chinese businessmen on a trade mission.

The spokesman said Mr. Zhang had stayed at the consulate, which houses 80 staff
members and ''a few'' Chinese guests, Sunday night, had left the building for
two nights and then returned Wednesday.

Mr. Austin, the immigration spokesman, said that Mr. Zhang had entered the
United States in San Francisco on April 4 with a businessman's visa, and that
the visa entitled him to stay until June 6.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              63 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 31, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Ex-Nazi Suspect Loses Immigration Court Case

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 173 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, May 30


An immigration judge has denied political asylum for John Demjanjuk, accused of
being former Nazi death camp guard, and he faces deportation, an official said
Tuesday.

The official, Russell Ezolt, chief legal officer for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service here, said he had received the opinion from Immigration
Judge Adolph Angelilli of Detroit. According to Mr. Demjanjuk's attorney, Mark
J. O'Connor of Buffalo, N.Y., the ruling gives Mr. Demjanjuk 30 days to leave
the country on his own. If he fails to do so, he will be deported, according to
the decision.

The ruling denied Mr. Demjanjuk's requests for political asylum and a suspension
of deportation, making him deportable, Mr. Ezolt said.

Mr. O'Connor said the ruling would be appealed to an administrative appellate
body in Fairfax, Va.

Mr. Demjanjuk, a retired automobile worker from Seven Hills, Ohio, was stripped
of his United States citzenship in 1981 when a Federal judge ruled that he had
lied about his whereabouts in World War II to hide his past.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              64 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 5, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

JACKSON BATTLING TO WIN MORE HISPANIC SUPPORT

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 958 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 4


With his opposition to a proposed change in the immigration laws and his trip to
Mexico last week, the Rev. Jesse Jackson has been running hard to make more real
the Hispanic component of his ''rainbow coalition.''

The Democratic Presidential candidate has been endorsed by few Hispanic elected
officials in New Mexico, California and New Jersey. Out of the five states
holding primary elections Tuesday, only those three have significant Hispanic
populations.

But many officials, such as Gov. Toney Anaya of New Mexico, predict that Mr.
Jackson will get ''his share'' of the Hispanic vote because of the issues he is
stressing. Nevertheless, the Governor notes that Walter F. Mondale's long
history of friendship with Mexican-Americans has borne fruit in their support at
the polls.

Although few Hispanic labor leaders are endorsing Mr. Jackson publicly, some
such as Dolores Huerta, a vice president of the United Farm Workers, which is
predominantly Mexican- American, speak of divided loyalties among their members
between Mr. Jackson and Mr. Mondale. The union has remained neutral.

Link to Issues Cited

Antonio Rodriguez, chairman of the the executive committee of Latinos for
Jackson, said Mexican-American voters in California had shown a responsiveness
to what he called ''progressive and liberal positions.''

He cited the 1982 vote in the state on a nuclear freeze proposal on the ballot.
Studies of three heavily Hispanic Congressional districts in Los Angeles County
showed as many favorable votes on the freeze as were received by the victorious
Mexican-American candidates in those districts.

In three days of campaigning in New Mexico last week and several additional
recent campaign visits to California, Mr. Jackson has generated some of the same
kind of enthusiasm among Mexican-American voters that he has among blacks.

Rosalinda Palacios, a 32-year-old health planner in Sacramento who is running as
a Jackson delegate there, contrasted her long involvement in politics, and that
of other young Latinos, with what she called the apathy of some older
Mexican-Americans.

Change Is Discerned


For example, she said, for years her mother did not register to vote despite
repeated urging, basically because politics seemed ''an Anglo thing'' that had
little to do with the lot of Mexican- Americans.

''But this time she registered and is voting for Jackson,'' said Miss Palacios.
''It wasn't because of me, because I never mentioned the Jackson campaign to
her.''

Studies of Hispanic voters and electoral politics by the Southwest Voter
Registration Education Project show there were nearly one million Hispanic
Americans registered to vote in California in 1980 and more than 777,000
unregistered Hispanic Americans.

Mr. Rodriguez said that combined efforts by Latinos for Jackson, the Jackson
campaign in California and the Southwest Voter Registration Education Project
sought to increase that number by nearly 200,000 over the last few months, but
he acknowledged that the rise in the upcoming primary was likely to be about
40,000.

One of the main points of attraction to the Jackson campaign, many supporters
contend, is his vigorous opposition to an immigration bill that would impose
sanctions on employers hiring undocumented workers. Opponents of the bill say
this provision will hurt Hispanic immigrants,

In mid-May Mr. Jackson led 5,000 people in a demonstration in downtown Los
Angeles to oppose the bill. He described it as a measure that would legitimize
some of the worst stereotypes of ''illegal aliens.''

Term 'Illegal Aliens' Avoided


In speeches he has avoided the use of the term ''illegal aliens'' and made a
point of it by saying:

''Heroin is illegal and E.T. was an alien. We're talking about human beings
here.''

The line draws applause and laughs from his audiences, but, more significantly,
Miss Palacios and Mr. Rodriguez said, Hispanic residents see a black person
taking issues of concern to them to the national forum.

Young, issue-oriented Mexican- American activists who make up a large part of
Mr. Jackson's Hispanic support, say there is a possibility of unity among blacks
and Hispanic voters on certain issues.

Until now, many black groups had supported the immigration bill, maintaining
that undocumented workers were robbing blacks of jobs.

Mr. Jackson attacks that issue squarely in his speeches, noting that for the
most part, undocumented workers from Mexico and Latin America were ending up in
jobs as farm laborers and at the lowest level of factory work. He said they were
not getting positions for which blacks were clamoring.

Governor Anaya, a Mondale supporter, said that Mr. Jackson's efforts on
immigration and his trip to Mexico would help him among Hispanic voters in both
California and New Mexico.

Fred Mondragon, the New Mexico state Democratic chairman, while conceding that
little of substance was achieved in Mr. Jackson's one-day visit to Mexico, said
that it would signal to Mexican-American voters his concern about issues
affecting them. This is something that Mr. Jackson's rivals, Mr. Mondale and
Senator Gary Hart, have not done as effectively, he said.

At the same time Governor Anaya said that Mr. Mondale had a long history of
friendship with Mexican-Americans and that in the end that fact, along with the
support of Mexican- American officials, would give Mr. Mondale an edge over both
Mr. Jackson and Mr. Hart.

That turned out to be the case in largely Mexican-American districts in Texas,
where Mr. Mondale, supported by local political leaders, won more votes than Mr.
Jackson. In New York City the two divided almost evenly the districts that were
heavily Hispanic.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rev. Jesse Jackson greeting supporters

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              65 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 13, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

UNLIKELY IMPROVEMENT OF IMMIGRATION LAW

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 165 words


To the Editor:


In ''Staring at Immigration,'' your June 6 editorial on the Simpson-Mazzoli
immigration bill, you express the belief that passage of that legislation will
''put America back in charge of its own borders.''

How can one believe that we will control our borders after telling millions who
are in this country illegally that they can be legalized?

How can we control our borders when we tell employers it's against the law to
hire undocumented aliens and that the penalty for breaking that law is not even
as much as a slap on the wrist?

How do we expect to enforce these new laws when we don't even have the manpower
to enforce the existing laws and the new bill does not make adequate provision
for the extra work?

Legislative reform is needed, but the Simpson-Mazzoli bill does not improve the
law. It cripples it.

HARRY A. DE MELL New York, June 6, 1984

The writer is a member of the Association of Immigration Attorneys' board of
directors.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              66 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 19, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

WORKER IDENTITY SYSTEM MIGHT COST $1.5 BILLION

BYLINE: By DAVID BURNHAM

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1051 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


Under the immigration legislation now before Congress, the Federal Government
would establish a computerized identity system estimated to cost as little as
$185 million or as much as $1.5 billion in its first five years.

Some kind of national identity system for all working Americans is required by
an immigration bill now being considered by the House. Such a system is
considered an essential part of any enforcement of a similar bill already passed
by the Senate.

But a number of Congressmen, including Representative Don Edwards, Democrat of
California, fear the immigration legislation could lead to the requirement that
every American carry a kind of ''internal passport'' that would allow the
Government to track the movements of workers around the United States.

The House is to take a final vote on its version of the immigration bill later
this week, after which the differences between it and the legislation already
approved by the Senate are to be worked out in a conference committee.

Identity Systems Described


The descriptions of various possible identity systems and their estimated costs
have been provided by supporters of the immigration legislation pending before
the House and in a report prepared by the staff of the national Select
Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy. It was the 1981 recommendations of
the commission that led to the legislation now before Congress.

Under the system tentatively approved by the House last week, a central
processing agency and 21 regional centers equipped with computers would be
established. Employers across the country would be able to telephone a toll-free
number to verify that the Social Security number presented by a new employee was
valid.

Representative Sam B. Hall Jr., Democrat of Texas, introduced the proposal. He
contended that the centers were technically feasible and would relieve employers
of having to judge the validity of the drivers' licenses, birth certificates and
other documents presented by those looking for work.

Mr. Hall estimated that the total five-year cost for the system would be $185
million.

''This amendment,'' he told the House, ''creates no new ID or worker
identification card and thereby avoids the pitfalls associated with those
systems.''

Others disagreed. ''What the amendment would do is mandate the use of the social
security card and number further down the road as an internal passport for
Americans generally,'' said Mr. Edwards, chairman of the House Judiciary
Subcommittee on Civil and Constitutional Rights. ''Sitting in Washington under
the control of big government, Big Brother in Washington, would be a system
where anybody could find out where somebody is. I assure you that there are
police agencies throughout the United States that would love to use this system
or something like it.''

A second criticism of Mr. Hall's plan is that it will not work because current
Social Security cards do not have photographs. Representative Dan Lungren,
Republican of California, said the lack of photographs meant that the cards
could be shared by different employees. ''That would destroy their
effectiveness,'' he said.

When the House tentatively approved Mr. Hall's Social Security verification
system last week, it eliminated a section of the bill that would have required
the executive branch to present for Congressional consideration within three
years various methods to identify legal workers. The Senate version of the
legislation, however, includes a provision requiring the Federal Government to
put into effect some kind of unspecified worker identification system on its own
after a three-year study.

A study by the select immigration commission outlined several different worker
identity systems that the staff recommended should be considered.

Names Collected by Computer


The most expensive system recommended was based on a new computerized data bank
which would have the names and a number of other distinguising characteristics
of all people seeking employment. As envisioned by the staff, every worker would
be given a new identity number by a new Federal office on the basis of existing
documents such as birth certificates, military discharge papers or tax returns.

That number, along with additional personal information such as a worker's
mother's first name, would be entered in a central data base where an employer
could check to make sure the job seeker was a legal worker. The commission staff
said that under its proposal, information about when and where a person applied
for a new job would not be made available to other agencies.

The staff estimated that in the first five years it would cost $1.5 billion to
acquire the necessary computers and enroll all United States workers. By not
requiring a card or other physical form of identification, the staff said, the
fears of civil libertarians could be somewhat alleviated.

The report concluded that the staff considered the best option to be an identity
system in which every worker would be issued a new card resistent to
counterfeiting. The report said the cards would cost $1.1 billion in the first
five years. The staff said the cards would carry the ''minimum information
necessary to identify a person: name, date of birth, sex, a photograph and an
indentifying numer unique to that individual.''

Worker Program Doubted


WASHINGTON, June 18 (AP) - A pivotal Democrat said today that he had been
assured a House-approved program allowing foreign workers to harvest United
States crops is unlikely to be in the final immigration bill approved by
Congress.

The Democrat, Representative Barney Frank of Massachusetts, softened a threat he
had made to vote against the bill because of the worker program. Representative
Henry B. Gonzales, Democrat of Texas, had called the program ''a rent-a-slave
device.''

Mr. Frank said Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chief sponsor of
the Senate version of the bill, had assured him that the foreign worker
provision is unlikely to be in the final legislation that goes to President
Reagan for his signature.

Mr. Simpson said he would oppose it when a conference committee reconciles
differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill, Mr. Frank said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Senator Alan K. Simpson and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              67 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 19, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

COURT REFUSES TO HEAR APPEAL ON DEPORTATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 522 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 18


The Supreme Court today let stand an appellate court order to deport a member of
the Irish Republican Army who was convicted in Ireland of illegally
manufacturing and possessing explosives and firearms.

The Court, without comment, declined to hear an appeal by Michael O'Rourke, 32
years old, who has been at the New York Metropolitan Correction Center since
1979.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Verne Jervis, said
it would rule ''possibly this week'' on a motion filed by Mr. O'Rourke's lawyers
to prevent deportation. Mr. Jervis said that Mr. O'Rourke could be deported 24
hours later if the motion was denied.

Mr. O'Rourke was convicted in Ireland in 1975 on three counts of possession of
explosives and supervising an illegal bomb factory. He escaped from a Dublin
prison in 1976 and entered the United States in 1978 under the assumed name of
Patrick Mannion.

He was arrested in 1979 after the Philadelphia authorities received a tip that
he was planning to assassinate Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain on a
visit to the United States. American immigration officials have been seeking to
deport him ever since.

Hearings on Judge's Role

Meanwhile, hearings began today in the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on the
Constitution on allegations that the immigration service had improperly forced a
Federal judge to excuse himself from the O'Rourke case. The judge, Ernest H.
Hupp, has said that he was leaning towards granting political asylum for Mr.
O'Rourke in 1981.

Judge Hupp removed himself from the case after saying he had been ''unjustly
harassed and intimidated'' by immigration service agents, who said they had been
investigating allegations that he was leaving work early without proper
authorization.

While conducting the deportation proceedings, Judge Hupp was followed by I.N.S.
agents for 125 miles on the way from the Philadelphia courthouse to his home in
Maryland.

In a memorandum written shortly after the incident, the judge said: ''I became
very scared for my life because I felt these men may mean harm for me and may be
sympathizers of the Irish Republican Army trying to intimate me in reaching a
decision on Michael O'Rourke,''

Testifying before the subcommittee, I.N.S. officials said there had been no
connection between the O'Rourke case and the surveillance of Judge Hupp, who has
since retired.

The director for the professional responsibility office of the immigration
service, Walter P. Connery, said he assigned two agents to trail Judge Hupp in
May 1981 after receiving an anonymous letter in March accusing the judge of
habitually leaving his Philadelphia office early without proper authorization.
The judge was never found guilty of any misconduct.

Mr. Connery said the investigation had been ''purely coincidental'' and had had
no connection with the O'Rourke case.

Judge Hupp, who declined to appear before the committee today, has told Senator
Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, and Representative Robert A. Borski,
Democrat of Pennsylvania, that he was inclined to grant asylum to Mr. O'Rourke.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              68 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CITY IMMIGRATION OFFICE CLOGGED BY CASELOAD

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1735 words


The New York district office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service is
understaffed, buried in paper work and overwhelmed by antiquated procedures,
according to many specialists in the field. Moreover, they say, there will be a
torrent of new work if Congress approves new immigration legislation.

Despite some innovations over the last few years, the agency, which handles the
largest workload of any district office in the country, simply does not have the
resources to keep up with the volume, according to Government officials, private
experts who deal regularly with the agency and aliens themselves.

''We're slowly but surely moving into the 20th century,'' said Kathleen Shields,
supervisor of the immigration service's information unit. ''But by the time we
get there, it will be the 21st.''

This year, about three-quarters of a million aliens will pass through the doors
of the district headquarters, on 13 floors of the concrete and limestone Federal
Building in lower Manhattan.

The immigration service estimates that if the new legislation becomes law, as
many as 450,000 aliens could be eligible to apply for some sort of legal status
in the district, which covers New York City, Long Island and seven upstate
counties.

The immigration measure, the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill that is moving
through Congress, would grant legal status to some illegal aliens and would try
to stem further illegal immigration by penalizing employers who hire aliens who
lack proper documents.

Agency officials say that they have taken steps in the last several years to
streamline their operations and that they are making contingency plans to handle
the surge of cases that would result from passage of the immigration bill.

''You can't sit back and wring your hands or leap out the window,'' said Charles
C. Sava, director of the immigration service's New York district. ''You can't
let the large numbers scare you.''

The New York district, including its branch offices, has a staff of 800, a 20
percent decrease from five years ago, when the immigration service reshuffled
its resources to meet crises in districts with growing alien populations.

Aliens and their lawyers complain that the agency's operations are hampered by
inefficiency - from a shortage of some of the most sought-after forms to
regulations that bounce aliens from office to office. For the aliens, the sum
total is often excruciating delay.

''It's an antiquated, 19th-century bureaucracy that has suffered from long
neglect,'' said Arthur C. Helton, director of the Political Asylum Project of
the New York-based Lawyers' Committee for International Human Rights. ''Its
resources are inadequate to service such a mammoth clientele.''

Most days the agency has to tape hand-written signs in its first-floor
information room advising aliens, ''No more tickets today.'' That means anyone
who wants to do more than pick up a form will have to come back.

'I've Got to Go to Work'

''You think I got all the time to come here,'' one frustrated Nigerian man
shouted the other day after an hourlong wait in line. When he got to the head of
the line he was handed a form to fill out, one that traces the status of his
petition for a ''green card,'' a document that indicates permanent residence.

''I filled out that form four times,'' he said. ''I've got to go to work. I got
two kids. They've got to eat.''

Aliens who succeed in getting tickets from the information room can proceed to
one of the upper floors where all business is transacted.

Many aliens say they find the application process frustrating and unnecessarily
confusing. For example, one clerk told a Peruvian student who wanted to return
home to visit his sick father but also insure his return to the United States:
''The 538 you submitted has no bearing on the I-20 now. And why didn't they pull
the I-94?'' The student left in confusion.

One of the aliens' biggest complaints is the length of time it takes to get
information on the status of their various petitions. Aliens must file petitions
with the immigration service for almost all requests, such as visa extensions,
replacements of lost cards, permission to work or go to school, or for permanent
residence or citizenship.

Access to the 2.4 million files kept in the office's fourth-floor file room is
often delayed by an outdated manual filing system. The files are stored on
bookshelves instead of in filing cabinets. They have to be propped up with
bookends, which increases the risk that they can fall out and be misplaced.

To save floor space, many of the stacks have to be pushed together, blocking
access to 70 percent of the files at any given time. The stacks have to be moved
every time access to closed shelves is needed.  ''Clerks sometimes have to wait
40 minutes for a new shelf to be opened,'' said Joseph Colon, one of the file
supervisors.

Cardboard boxes and red plastic milk crates filled with files sit on the floor,
on desks and in shopping carts, and there are thousands of slips requesting
files, neatly bound in rubber bands to indicate the date of arrival.

'Off the Conveyor Belt'


''Ninety percent of the cases go through,'' said Allen E. Kaye, a former
president of the American Immigration Lawyers' Association, a 1,500- member
specialty American Bar Association group. ''It's the ones that fall off the
conveyor belt and disappear that worry me.''

One file that apparently disappeared belongs to Ashokchandra Shah, a 47-
year-old Kenyan-born sales representative, who came to the United States in 1969
and applied for suspension of deportation when his British protected- person
passport no longer gave him the right to return to Britain.

An immigration judge heard the case a year and a half ago, but Mr. Shah and his
lawyer say they have been unable to receive any information about its outcome.
Immigration officials say that while such delays occur occasionally, aliens in
such cases are usually notified in several weeks.

''Anyone who wants to defect from Russia can stay here, but what about those of
us who are already living here?'' asked Mr. Shah. ''They have no feeling for
people at that place. 'Why are you so busy?' I ask them. 'For whom are you so
busy?' ''

Files Turn Up


Immigration officials say there is no such thing as a lost file. ''People who
talk about missing files are ignorant,'' said Mr. Sava. ''There's a certain
processing time. If you're patient, it will come up.''

Replacement of documents is similarly problematic. Amrish Patel, a 32- year-old
packing supervisor from Flushing who lost his wallet in September 1980, filed
four applications for a replacement green card.

He wrote four times to the printing plant in Arlington, Tex., where green cards
are prepared, which told him his papers had never been received. Almost four
years, two lawyers and $500 later, his new green card arrived.



'You Just Fill Out New Forms'

''I never give a good word about that office,'' Mr. Patel said. ''You ask a
question but they don't hear anything when you talk. You just get your picture
taken again. You just get new fingerprints. You just fill out new forms.''

To get around what they see as problems of inefficiency and lack of access, some
immigration lawyers have taken drastic steps. One routinely sues the immigration
service when he cannot get action on a case.  Another frequently files an
application under the Freedom of Information Act to get access to a client's
file.

Perhaps the most frustrating aspect of the immigration process is the
excruciating wait that invariably comes after the forms have been filed.

When the Brooklyn branch office was reorganized a year ago, many of its
examiners were detached for retraining, and 20,000 petitions for citizenship
piled up. Aliens who inquired about the status of their claims were told their
records were packed in boxes and couldn't be opened.

A month ago, the agency borrowed 5,000 square feet of space in another Federal
building in downtown Manhattan, installed desks and shipped the files across the
river. Fifteen criminal investigators - 10 percent of the entire investigatory
staff - were assigned to the desk work. With a skeleton clerical staff, they are
working feverishly to process the backlog by Labor Day.

The immigration service says that by October, all of its files will carry bar
codes similar to the ones used on supermarket products. They will enable files
to be checked out and located electronically.

The agency plans to install more than 100 I.B.M. computer terminals to provide
instant identification of the alien, the status of his case, relevant dates and
the location of the file. But an I.B.M. competitor, charging bidding violations,
has successfully won a temporary order barring installation of the terminals.



New Center Is Opened

To increase output, three years ago the immigration service opened a Regional
Adjudications Center in St. Albans, Vt.  In many cases, the center has
dramatically cut the time needed to process various petitions. Because the files
must be transfered there, however, the risk that they will be misplaced or lost
is greatly increased.

The office has also farmed out 40 percent of its visa petitions to 16 posts on
the Canadian border. And, in the lag time between international flight
inspections, immigration officials at Kennedy International Airport now process
cases that do not require interviews.

If an immigration bill passes, the experts say, it would place a tremendous
additional burden on the office.

Contingency Plans Are Made


The bill would also penalize employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens, and
increase the workload of criminal investigators.

While it is not at all certain that the bill will pass, the agency is making
contingency plans to hire 175 more workers, some of them agency retirees, and to
set up eight satellite offices to accept legalization applications. It hopes
that voluntary agencies will play a major role in helping applicants prepare the
complicated paperwork.

But many voluntary agency officals that help aliens are worried. ''That office
is already overwhelmed,'' said the Rev. Peter Zendzian, director of the Catholic
Migration and Refugee Office of the Diocese of Brooklyn. ''It would take some
very heavy miracles to make the new law work.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Manhattan office of Immigration and Naturalization Service
(page B4); photo of worker at Immigration and Naturalization Service office

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              69 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 16, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Fredrik Mundale, Dominick Ferraro The Democratic Party proclaims its devotion to
fairness, and it's in the name of social justice that its nominees, who proudly
proclaim their immigrant lineage, assail the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform
bill. Unfairness is more like it. Where is the social justice in championing the
cause only of gate-crashers?

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 435 words


One investigation after another has shown that the borders are out of control.
Anyone determined to enter the United States can steal in, and it's
inconceivable that this open society will ever hire enough guards or uncoil
enough barbed wire to stop them. But there is another way. Turn off the magnets
that pull people across the border - the jobs, however menial, that pay, to
foreigners' reckoning, a fortune.

That's what the Simpson-Mazzoli bill would do. It has long been a crime for
illegal aliens to take jobs here. This bill, which has passed the House and
Senate and awaits reconciliation in a conference committee, would finally make
it illegal for employers to hire them. That, more than patrols in the night,
would help control the borders.

Maybe, some Hispanic spokesmen say, but only by causing intolerable
discrimination. Employers, anxious to avoid any brush with the Immigration
Service, would stay away from anyone even arguably illegal, and would thus
refuse to hire legal Hispanic residents.

That argument might make sense in the abstract but it makes none in the real
world. Employ- ers in border states already have a hard time finding enough
people to hire. If Simpson-Mazzoli were law, the job market would be even
tighter and they would have to be less, not more fussy. In any case, the law's
identification system would deny bigoted employers this pretext for
discrimination.  Meanwhile, the reform bill would restore - to get back to that
Democratic slogan - fairness. Because it's now so easy to sneak into the
country, many Americans are growing uneasy about the number of illegal aliens.
Impatience with the back- door flood has made people ready to slam the front
door. There is rising sentiment in Congress to slap stern limits even on legal
immigration.  That means there's increasing danger that people from all over the
world who have been waiting patiently to enter the United States legally will
suffer. People like Fredrik Mundale, Walter Mondale's great-grandfather, who
came to Minnesota from Norway in 1856. People like Dominick Ferraro, Geraldine
Ferraro's father, who came to New York from Italy about 1918.  There's obvious
humane and political appeal in speaking for poor, brave - illegal - migrants
from Mexico. But where's the fairness in it? If the Democratic candidates speak
only for undocumented Mexicans, who will speak for the Norwegians and Italians,
Somalis and Ethiopians, Salvadorans and Filipinos from all over the world? They,
too, are descendants of Fredrik Mundale and Dominick Ferraro and they, too,
deserve fairness.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              70 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 4, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Immigration Unit Sued On Custody of Children

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 241 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Sept. 3


A class action lawsuit was filed Friday accusing the Federal Immigration and
Naturalization Service of trying to lure undocumented workers out of hiding by
holding their children.

But immigration officials say it would be wrong for them to release the children
to anyone but their parents.

At the center of the controversy is Orlando Ramirez, a 4-year-old boy who left
El Salvador for the United States on Aug. 5. The child's father was killed the
year before, and his mother was already in Los Angeles, working as a domestic.
The boy and other Salvadorans were intercepted, and Orlando has been in custody
for more than two weeks.

The lawsuit, filed in Federal District Court here, contends that the service, as
a matter of policy, seeks to use Orlando and 200 other youngsters as
''hostages.'' The suit was filed by the National Center for Immigrants' Rights
and El Rescate, a legal service center.

''They charge that we are being inhumane, but can you imagine what they would
charge if we were to release the children to someone irresponsible?'' said
Martin Soblick, a lawyer for the immigration service.

Last week, the Board of Immigration Appeals upheld the rule requiring a parent
to pick up a child.

''We have no objection to that,'' said Peter Schey of the center for immigrants'
rights. ''What we do object to is that the I.N.S. insists she be subjected to
interrogation and give up her constitutional right to remain silent.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              71 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 16, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION

BYLINE: By Carol Rand Herron, Carlyle C. Douglas, and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 400 words


Outlook Less

Gloomy for

Aliens Bill

With time running out on Capitol Hill, the prospects for an overhaul of the
immigration laws seemed to improve a bit last week.

Conferees, belatedly turning to the many differences between bills approved by
the House and Senate, agreed to make it illegal for an employer to hire any
alien known to have entered the United States illegally. Any number of
controversial issues are still to be dealt with, including a proposal for a
temporary foreign worker program that would allow aliens into the country to
help harvest crops.

Further complicating matters is President Reagan's position that he would be
comfortable only with the Senate's version. Walter F. Mondale opposes both
bills, saying they would adversely affect Hispanic Americans and other
minorities. Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming and a principal
sponsor of the legislation, predicted a compromise bill would make its way
through Congress before adjournment early next month. But Senator Edward M.
Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, told the committee it was ''difficult to
think we could reach a compromise.'' A candidate for the legislative scrapheap
may be the treaty - 35 years old and still not ratified by the Senate - making
genocide a crime. Last week, the Foreign Relations Committee postponed action
after Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, insisted that changes were
needed to, among other things, keep Americans from facing false charges in
international courts. The panel may yet take up the treaty, which has been
approved by 95 other countries, but it might not reach the Senate floor by
adjournment day.

The prognosis for a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget also
seemed bleak. The Republican-run Senate Judiciary Committee approved the
measure, which is wholeheartedly endorsed by the President.

But the Democrats who control the House have refused to make room for it on
their agenda, and last week the amendment's supporters conceded that the
calendar was working against them.

Congress managed to wrap up work on a few measures. The House sent to the White
House a bill that would set aside 1.8 million acres of California forest as a
protected wilderness preserve. The House also gave final Congressional approval
to a measure requiring that Federal polling places be accessible to the
handicapped.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Senator Alan K. Simpson with representative Romano L. Mazzoli

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              72 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 23, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

TEHERAN SAYS U.S. SEARCHED HOME OF AN IRANIAN DIPLOMAT

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 293 words

DATELINE: NICOSIA, Cyprus, Sept. 21


The Iranian press agency said today that United States security agents had
searched the house of an Iranian diplomat in Washington soon after the car
bombing of the United States Embassy in Beirut.

In a dispatch from Washington, the agency said that the diplomat, Ali Sabzalian,
who is in charge of the Iranian interest section, was told later that he was
being ''closely watched.''

The connection between the bombing of the embassy in Beirut and the reported
search of the Iranian diplomat's home in Washington was not clear. The shadowy
Islamic Holy War organization has taken responsibility for the embassy bombing.

The Iranian press agency said:

''Security agents accompanied by officials from the United States immigration
department searched the house of the diplomat, saying that guns and ammunition
were in the house. The search proved futile but he was questioned at gunpoint.''

(In Washington, Greg Leo, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, said he knew nothing about the search of the home of an Iranian
diplomat. ''It bears no resemblance to anything we do operationally,'' he said.
''We perform our duties at ports of entry.'')

The Iranian agency said the security agents had said that they were unaware of
Mr. Sabzalian's diplomatic status and had asked for his identity papers. They
refused to identify themselves, the agency said.

In a further incident on Friday, the agency said, the diplomat was leaving his
residence in a car with an Algerian diplomatic plate when he noticed that
several cars were chasing him.

''The diplomat was later stopped by a police car and was asked for his driving
license,'' the press agency said. ''The policeman warned him that he was being
closely watched.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              73 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 27, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NO MEETINGS SEEN ON ALIENS MEASURE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1128 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 26


Congressional efforts to draft a comprehensive immigration bill broke down today
over the question of job protection for legal aliens, and lawmakers from both
parties said they saw no way to resolve the impasse.

In the absence of agreement the bill, representing the most sweeping change in
immigration law in years, would die with this Congress, which is tentatively
scheduled to adjourn Oct. 4 or 5.

Conferees from the two houses of Congress adjourned this evening after nine days
of negotiations that resolved most differences between the bills passed by the
Senate in May 1983 and by the House of Representatives in June of this year.

The negotiators could reconvene before Congress adjourns, but there was no plan
for another meeting and lawmakers indicated that the bill was moribund.

All pending legislation dies at the end of a Congress, which lasts for two
years. Efforts to overhaul the immigration law would have to start again next
year after the election if members wanted to continue the effort.

'Pretty Close' to Dead

Asked whether the bill was dead, Representative E. (Kika) de la Garza, Democrat
of Texas, said tonight, ''You never know in the legislative process, but I would
say it's pretty close.''

Senator Alan K. Simpson, the Wyoming Republican who was chief sponsor of the
Senate bill, said the negotiations were at ''the end of the line,'' and he
added: ''We have reached a standoff, a true sticking point. I regret that we
could not or have not reached an accommodation here.''

The conferees had already agreed on the core of the bill, which would for the
first time have established fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly
hired illegal aliens. The bill would also have offered legal status to illegal
aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1981, and have lived here
continuously since then.

The deadlock was over the question of how to prevent employers from
discriminating against legal aliens, including immigrants, refugees and illegal
aliens who obtained legal status under the bill.

'Unprecedented Course'


By a vote of 404 to 9, the House in June approved a provision that would have
outlawed such discrimination and permitted victims to file complaints against
employers before a new Justice Department agency, the United States Immigration
Board.

A majority of the House conferees stood fast in support of that provision,
originally offered by Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat.
However, Senator Simpson said the Senate conferees could not accept it because
it would ''chart an unprecedented course in civil rights law,'' granting greater
protection to aliens, in his view, than citizens have. The Reagan Administration
did not publicly take a position on the provision, but privately expressed
objections to it while supporting the overall bill.

The House conferees voted 14 to 9 tonight to offer the Senate a revised version
of Mr. Frank's amendment, designed to protect the civil rights of legal aliens
and citizens of Hispanic origin. The revision was proposed by Representative
Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the House bill.
All 14 aye votes were cast by Democrats. Eight Republicans and one Democrat
voted against the proposal.

Senator Simpson said the Senate ''does not concur'' in the proposal.
Representative Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of upstate New York, said: ''This
is the most overblown issue in the conference. In the scale of societal values,
it is just not that important.''

Growing Opposition Seen


But Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., the New Jersey Democrat who is chairman
of the conference, said in an interview: ''This is a core issue. It goes to the
heart of employer sanctions. How inconsistent would it be to legalize these
illegal aliens, but then tell them they could not work in this country? In
addition, we have 500,000 legal immigrants come into the country each year. What
about their rights?''

The Simpson-Mazzoli bill would make the most significant changes in immigration
law in more than three decades. In the midst of the debate over the rights of
legal aliens, Roger L. Conner, executive director of the Federation for American
Immigration Reform, which organized support for the bill, said: ''It would be a
shame for a ship as big as this to founder on a rock as small as this. The
conferees have resolved issues of far greater seriousness.''

In the last few days, however, there was growing opposition to other elements of
the package approved by the conferees. Farmers, labor unions and the National
Association of Counties joined Hispanic groups in expressing opposition to the
bill this week for various reasons. The county officials contended that the bill
did not provide enough money to pay the costs of health, education and welfare
benefits for illegal aliens who would have gained legal status.

The final compromise offered by Mr. Mazzoli would have revised an 1870 civil
rights statute to prohibit discrimination in employment contracts. The 1870 law,
like the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, provides civil rights guarantees
not just for citizens, but for ''all persons'' in the United States. The Supreme
Court said in 1971 that ''the protection of this statute has been held to extend
to aliens as well as to citizens.''

Attempts to Avoid Blame


Mr. Mazzoli said Congress could make clear, by statute, that ''all persons''
included aliens and refugees for their first seven years of legal residence in
the United States. Republican conferees said they could not accept the proposal
because it would have created a new Government bureaucracy to enforce newly
created civil rights for legal aliens. ''This is almost indefensible as far as
the average person is concerned,'' Mr. Fish said.

Republicans and Democrats alike sought to avoid blame for the failure of the
conference to reach agreement. Mr. Simpson said ''the record ought to show''
that he originally supported the idea of extending civil rights laws, like the
1870 statute, to prevent discrimination under the employer sanctions authorized
by his bill. But, he said, he could not accept the new bureaucratic apparatus
envisioned by Mr. Frank and Mr. Mazzoli.

Democrats said that they had done nothing to stall or obstruct the work of the
conference, which held its first meeting Sept. 13.

The immigration bill culminates more than a decade of efforts to curtail illegal
immigration and to prevent the exploitation of alien workers. The House twice
approved employer sanctions in the early 1970's, only to see the bills die in
the Senate. An earlier version of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill died on the floor of
the House in December 1982.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Peter Rodino Jr. and Garner Cline

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              74 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 2, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AND THE RANDOMNESS OF ETHNIC MIX

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 28, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1234 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1


Immigration to the United States from Asia was severely restricted for 80 years,
starting with the Chinese Exclusion Act in 1882. From 1820 to 1979, only 6
percent of all immigrants came from Asia.

But last year there were 282,724 immigrants from Asia, representing half of all
legal immigration to the United States. The six largest sources of legal
immigrants, after Mexico, were all Asian countries.

The new statistics indicate how a change in immigration law and policy can
affect the ethnic mix of the American population. And behind the statistics is a
story of how no one, not even those in Washington who decree the change, can
predict the consequences.

In recent weeks, Congressional debate on a comprehensive immigration bill has
focused national attention on the issue. Most of the debate concerns immigrants
from Latin America, who join the nation's rapidly growing Hispanic population.
But statistics collected by the Immigration and Naturalization Service also show
remarkable growth in the number of Asians coming to this country.

'A Browning of America'


In fact, Lawrence H. Fuchs of Brandeis University, an expert on immigration and
ethnic history, says ''a browning of America'' may occur within six or seven
generations in which a growing proportion of the population will be nonwhite.

''Such trends do not alarm me,'' he hastened to add, ''because I believe that
immigrants and their children will commit themselves to American ideals and
values,'' just as previous generations of immigrants did.

Both houses of Congress have adopted legislation to curtail the influx of
illegal aliens. It is not intended to restrict or alter the flow of legal
immigrants. But history suggests that immigration laws often have unforeseen
consequences, and no one is sure precisely what will happen if Congress finally
adopts the measure. A House-Senate conference has resolved most differences
between the two versions of the bill, but members said today it appeared highly
unlikely that the measure would pass before Congress adjourns for this year.

From 1924 to 1965, the United States had immigration quotas, based on national
origin, that were designed to ''preserve the ethnic and racial composition of
the United States'' as it existed in 1920. Since repeal of those quotas in 1965,
there has been a gradual increase in immigration from Asia and a decline in
immigration from Europe. People who were barred under the old laws now enter in
large numbers. Last year there were more Asian immigrants than in the three
decades from 1931 to 1960.

'From Exclusion to Inclusion'


David M. Reimers, a professor of history at New York University, said American
policy toward Asian immigrants had shifted ''from exclusion to inclusion.''

Congress, he said, did not foresee the results that occurred after it repealed
the national origin quotas and established a ceiling of 20,000 immigrants for
each country (not counting refugees or immediate relatives of American
citizens). When Congress made the change in 1965, Representative Emanuel Celler,
a Brooklyn Democrat, told his colleagues, ''There will not be, comparatively,
many Asians or Africans entering this country.''

More generally, Mr. Reimers said, most immigrants to the United States now come
from third world countries. Europe accounted for 80 percent of all immigrants to
this country from 1820 to 1965. But now, Mr. Reimers said, ''Hispanics, South
and East Asians, Middle Easterners and non-Hispanic Caribbean migrants dominate
the immigration statistics.''

The largest number of legal immigrants last year came from Mexico, which sent
59,298, according to the immigration service. China, Hong Kong and Taiwan
together sent a total of 48,668. The next largest sources were the Philippines,
which sent 41,725; Vietnam, 39,821; Korea, 33,453; India, 25,535, and Laos,
23,917.

These countries are likely to dominate immigration in the future, since 1.1
million of their people have applied for immigrant visas and received
preliminary approval at the first stage of review.

Immigrants include people who received visas overseas, as well as refugees and
other aliens who obtain permanent resident status after entering this country.
Most of the Vietnamese and Laotians were admitted as refugees.

Four Agencies Involved


The immigration laws are administered by a small group of specialists from four
Federal agencies: the Justice Department, which has overall responsibility; the
State Department, which issues visas through embassies and consulates around the
world; the Labor Department, which certifies the need for alien workers; and the
Department of Health and Human Services, which provides aid to refugees who
resettle in this country.

The officials operate in the shadows except at times of crisis when the
immigration law becomes an instrument of foreign policy. President Carter, for
example, in 1980 imposed visa restrictions on Iranian students in this country
after the seizure of the American Embassy in Teheran.

Immigration officials do not have the power to increase or reduce immigration
quotas. Only Congress has that power. But the President and the Attorney General
do have the power, after consulting with Congress, to set the number of refugees
who will be admitted from a particular country.

In Washington, ethnic minority groups, which once had little influence on
immigration policy, now play an important role by lobbying against restrictions.

Laura Chin, executive director of the Organization of Chinese Americans, said:
''Some people might feel there are too many Asians coming into the United
States. They should remember that, for many years, Asians were excluded from
this country solely because of their race. The restrictive policies ended only
20 years ago.''

Affecting the Ethnic Mix


Asia, with 2.8 billion people, has nearly 60 percent of the world's population.
So, in numerical terms, it is perhaps not surprising that Asians account for
nearly half of immigration to the United States.

The new immigrants are bound to affect the ethnic mix of America. In the 1980
census, only 3.5 million people, or 1.5 percent of the population, described
themselves as Asian. The Census Bureau estimated there were 15.9 million
Hispanic Americans in 1983, accounting for 6.8 percent of the population. Both
groups are growing because of immigration as well as births.

The bureau estimates that legal immigration accounted for 25 percent of the
United States population growth last year. If illegal immigrants were included,
the proportion would be larger, officials say. The Government has no reliable
way to measure illegal immigration or to count the number of illegal aliens in
the country.

Mr. Fuchs, who served as executive director of the Select Commission on
Immigration and Refugee Policy, a Federal advisory panel, from 1979 to 1981,
said: ''We are probably going to have a browning of America over time. It will
take six or seven generations, but ultimately, I believe, a majority of the
population will be nonwhite. That is likely to occur because of immigration and
increasing rates of intermarriage between darker-skinned people and whites. But
concepts of color and race will probably change, and it's possible that
questions about color won't even be asked in the census 150 years from now.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              75 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 9, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

MORE THAN A 'MOLEHILL' IN IMMIGRATION REFORM

SECTION: Section A; Page 32, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words


To the Editor:


Which page of The New York Times do you believe?

Your Sept. 28 news story regarding the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill reports
that the impasse between the House and Senate conferees resulting from the House
provision to forbid employment discrimination against permanent resident aliens
involves ''profound issues: . . . a question of whether aliens should enjoy the
full protection of the nation's laws, and how best to prevent job discrimination
against . . . citizens of Hispanic origin.'' In your Sept. 28 editorial on the
subject, you describe the issue as a ''molehill'' and say that the
''discrimination problem . . . seems mostly theoretical.'' The issue is neither
a molehill nor is it theoretical. Read the testimony of Luis Velarde Jr.,
Southwest regional director of the United States Catholic Conference, before the
House Judiciary Committee in 1971: ''We have some factories in El Paso that, so
they won't be bothered with the problem of perhaps hiring an illegal, all they
do is hire citizens, and I don't think it is correct.'' Read what happened when
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, agreeing with Mr. Velarde, ruled
that discrimination against legal aliens was barred by the Civil Rights Act of
1964, which forbade discrimination upon the basis of ''national origin.'' In
1973, the Supreme Court reversed that decision, holding that ''national origin''
is not equivalent to alienage and that discrimination against aliens is not
forbidden by that statute.

The molehill started rising, The Times says, after the House-Senate conferees
''patiently reconciled sharp differences.'' But the very core of the debate over
employer sanctions has been the House conferees' fear that the bill would
encourage employers to refuse jobs to anyone who

looks

 foreign, whether illegal or not.

If the issue is a ''molehill,'' it has been present since the inception of the
legislation and has been the subject of testimony before the House and Senate
Judiciary Committees, as well as before the Civil Rights Commission, which twice
urged that employer- sanction legislation be rejected for this very reason.

Two months before the House-Senate conference, the House adopted the Frank
amendment by a vote of 404 to 9 to forbid discrimination against aliens and to
provide a means of redress. If the ''molehill'' suddenly became a ''mountain,''
it was created by persons who apparently are oblivious of the rights of aliens
in the United States.

Those who believe that it is ''acceptable'' to prohibit discrimination against
legal resident aliens and, more, that it is required, in the words of the
editorial, for a ''national immigration policy based on honesty and fairness
instead of hypocrisy and piety,'' cannot be legitimately charged with ''looking
for a molehill big enough to hide behind'' when they insist upon the enactment
of the Frank amendment.

Is it wise, you ask, to forbid employers to discriminate in favor of American
citizens as well as against aliens and ''would it be politically tenable?''

The Supreme Court has held repeatedly that it is unconstitutional for the states
to impose bars against aliens in obtaining employment. If it is unconstitutional
for a state to enact laws discriminating against resident aliens, can it be
''extreme and extravagant'' for the Congress to prohibit such discrimination?
The Times surely cannot believe that it would be ''noble'' to surrender the
rights of aliens to political nativism.

DAVID CARLINER Washington, Sept. 29, 1984

The writer is a member of the American Bar Association's Coordinating Committee
on Immigration.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              76 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 6, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SIMPSON-MAZZOLI WOULD NOT HAVE CREATED A 'FREEDOM DAY'

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 465 words


To the Editor:


The Oct. 18 editorial ''The Death of a Humane Idea'' expressed only one side of
the argument on immigration reform.

First of all, the Simpson-Mazzoli bill contained no amnesty program. It
contained a complex, two-tier legalization program. There were approximately 32
grounds for exclusion in that program, and it was up to the discretion of the
Immigration and Naturalization Service (I.N.S.) to determine who met certain
criteria for legalization. In the eyes of the undocumented, that's like putting
the fox in charge of the chicken coop.

In addition, a liberal estimate of the number of people that would have been
admitted under the legalization program in Simpson-Mazzoli is perhaps 25
percent. What would happen to the remaining 75 percent of the undocumented
community living in this country? It is unrealistic to believe that employer
sanctions would immediately force them out of their jobs and back to their
native countries.

A 1982 General Accounting Office report on sanctions being used by 19 countries
and Hong Kong stated that frequently not enough resources were given to the
government agency in charge of enforcing them, thereby limiting their
effectiveness. There is no reason to believe that the situation with I.N.S.
would be any different.  Another conclusion of the G.A.O. study was that most
governments show a reluctance to enforce sanctions. I doubt the U.S. Government
would be more willing to enforce sanctions against small and medium-size
businesses, particularly if criminal penalities were involved. Yet, there is no
doubt that sanctions, even if partly applied, would be discriminatory.  Further,
the $1 billion a year reimbursement for four years for state and local
governments would have been inadequate. Many of the newly legalized individuals
would have been ineligible for Federal assistance under the bill. That meant
that state governments could have been forced to provide for these individuals.
The White House knew this, yet threatened to veto any bill that was properly
funded. How sincere was it about immigration reform?

Simpson-Mazzoli would not have created a ''Freedom Day,'' any more than it would
have realistically curbed undocumented immigration. It put the burden of
immigration reform on the backs of small businesses and Hispanics. What I want,
what all responsible Hispanics want, is a bill that is realistic and just.

Your editorial reminds me of a passage from ''Alice in Wonderland'': '' 'I'll be
judge, I'll be jury,' said cunning old Fury, 'I'll try the whole cause and
condemn you to death.' '' I wish that before you condemned those of us who
opposed the bill you would have at least ''tried the whole cause.''

ROBERT GARCIA Member of Congress, 18th Dist., N.Y.  Washington, Nov. 2, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              77 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 19, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Wife of U.S. Citizen Deported to Philippines

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 191 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 18


A woman who married a United States citizen earlier this year and is five months
pregnant has been deported to her native Philippines because she lived here
illegally for nearly 10 years and ignored early deportation orders.

Although her lawyer contends her marriage makes her eligible for legal residence
here, the woman, Eleanor Parnes, 29 years old, was put on a plane Thursday after
Immigration Judge Jay Segal lifted an order barring the Immigration and
Naturalization Service from deporting her.

Her husband, Richard Parnes, said, ''I couldn't even say goodbye.''

Judge Segal said Mrs. Parnes could not apply to re-enter for five years.

Immigration officials said she lived in Los Angeles illegally since leaving her
job as a housekeeper to the Philippine consul general in 1974.

Judge Segal said he based his decision on Mrs. Parnes's failure to comply with
previous deportation orders, which he said ''overcomes the favorable factor of
her marriage.''

He also refused to let her leave voluntarily, which would have allowed her to
apply immediately to return.

It was Judge Segal who originally ordered her deported in 1979.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              78 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             November 21, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TO LET 125,000 CUBANS SEEK RESIDENT STATUS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Nov. 20


The thousands of Cubans who arrived in the United States by sea in 1980 can
begin applying for permanent residence status next month, an immigration
official said today.

The applications will be accepted after the Government formally puts the Cuban
Adjustment Act back into active use. Applications were not accpeted under the
18-year-old act over the past three years as Congress debated a proposed
immigration bill, which failed to pass this year.

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
indicated in January that he would apply the Cuban Adjustment Act to the Cubans
who arrived in the boatlift if the legislation failed.

Program Starts Dec. 3


Perry Rivkind, director of the immigration office in Miami, said today that he
learned Monday from Mr. Nelson that the program would be applied starting Dec. 3
to about 125,000 refugees who arrived from the port of Mariel.

Under the initial phase of the program, all Cuban nationals who entered the
United States in the boatlift, which began April 15, 1980, and continued until
Oct. 10 that year, can apply through Dec. 31 for permanent residence, Mr.
Rivkind said. Applications can continue after Dec. 31, he said, but those
applying before that date will receive priority in the processing of
application. After April 1, the immigration service will interview the
applicants, he said.

Mr. Rivkind said the program did not apply to Cubans being held in detention
with criminal records or records of mental illness.

''Permanent residence status confers most of the privileges of U.S. citizenship
and is required before citizenship can be obtained,'' Mr. Rivkind said.

100,000 Expected to Apply


He estimated that ''up to 100,000 Cubans'' would register, at least 90,000 of
whom have settled in Florida.

The registration forms will be available nationwide through several volunteer
organizations, including the International Rescue Committee, the Lutheran
Immigration and Refugee Service and the United States Catholic Conference
Immigration Refugee Service, Mr. Rivkind said. He said the immigration service
would not directly distribute the forms.

Under the Cuban Adjustment Act, any Cuban national who came to the United States
after Jan. 1, 1959, could apply for permanent residence status a year after
being in the United States. But applications were not accepted under the act for
three years as Congress debated a proposed immigration bill. Separate versions
of the bill passed the House and the Senate last year but died when a compromise
could not be reached.

The bills would have granted amnesty to many illegal aliens already in the
United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              79 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              November 29, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Is Helping Bring Deported Woman Back

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 159 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 28


Immigration officials said today that they were working to bring back to the
United States a pregnant Filipino deported to Manila 12 days ago, and the
woman's husband hopes to have her home by Christmas.

Eleanore Parnes, 29 years old, was put on a plane for the Philippines by agents
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service on Nov. 17.

The officials said Mrs. Parnes had lived in Los Angeles illegally since she left
her job as a housekeeper to the Philippine consul general in 1974. But Hiram
Kwan, Mrs. Parnes's attorney, said her marriage to an American citizen this year
made her eligible for legal residence.

Mr. Kwan filed a new visa petition today to allow Mrs. Parnes to re-enter the
United States. Orville Charles, assistant district director for the immigration
service in Los Angeles, said it should ''just be a matter of weeks'' before Mrs.
Parnes returned.

Mr. Parnes, 31, said his wife is expecting a baby in late March.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              80 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 12, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

J. M. SWING, WARTIME AIRBORNE COMMANDER

BYLINE: By JOAN COOK

SECTION: Section A; Page 29, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 428 words


Lieut. Gen. Joseph May Swing, commanding officer of the 11th Airborne Division
in World War II and later Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, died of pnuemonia Sunday in San Francisco, where he resided. He was 90
years old.

General Swing was a native of Jersey City and was graduated from the United
States Military Academy in 1915, a classmate of Dwight D. Eisenhower and Omar N.
Bradley. The general's military career spanned 51 years.

One of his first assignments as a second lieutenant in the Fourth Field
Artillery, Texas, was the expedition to Mexico led by Gen. John J. Pershing
against Francisco (Pancho) Villa, the Mexican revolutionary.

He fought in France as a field-artillery captain in World War I.

Commanded Airborne Unit

After years as an artillery expert, he organized the artillery units of the 82nd
Airborne Division at Fort Bragg, N.C., as the United States entered World War
II. For much of the war, he commanded the 11th Division, which was activated as
an airborne unit.

He was promoted to major general in 1943.

General Swing conducted the first mass landing of parachute and glider troops at
night with the 11th Airborne division at Camp Claiborne, La. He was transferred
to the Pacific in 1944, and his paratroopers were credited with helping to
defeat the Japanese at New Guinea and in the Phillipines.

After the Japanese surrender, his was the first United States unit to occupy
Japan.

Returning to the United States in 1949, he was commandant of the Army War
College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan., in 1950 and 1951, and later commanded the
Sixth Army at the Presidio until he retired in 1954.

Work With Immigration Service

General Swing served as Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service from 1954 to 1962, when he retired for the second time. He believed that
the greatest accomplishment of his tenure was a sweeping reorganization in which
many of the service's functions were decentralized.

Among General Swing's medals were the Distinguished Service Cross, the
Distinguished Service Medal, the Silver Star with two oak leaf clusters, the
French Legion of Honor, the Air Medal with one cluster and the Legion of Merit.

In 1918, he married Josephine Mary March, who has died.

The general is survived by a daughter, Mary Ann Fullolove of San Francisco, a
son, Joseph March Swing of Seattle, and a grandson.

A funeral service is to be held at 1:30 P.M. Friday in the Post Chapel at the
Presidio. Interment will be at Arlington National Cemetery.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OBITUARY

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              81 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 13, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CHINESE OFFICIAL ON VISIT TO U.S. IS FOUND HANGED

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 693 words


The body of a Chinese official on a brief working visit to New York was found
hanging yesterday morning from a cable on the roof of the Chinese Consulate
General in Manhattan, the police said.

The circumstances preceding the death were murky, with several discrepancies in
the accounts given by Federal and police authorities. The dead man had met with
United States immigration officials on Sunday and Monday, but authorities
refused to say whether he had asked for asylum.

The State Department said the Chinese Consulate considered the death a suicide.
The police said that no suicide note was found near the body and that the cause
of death was under investigation, Telephone calls to officials at the consulate
were unavailing.

Never Got on Plane


The police said the dead man - Zhang Xin, 49 years old, an official of the
Chinese Textile Ministry - met with immigration officials at Kennedy
International Airport Sunday, shortly before he was to leave with other ministry
officials for Guyana. He never left the United States, and on Monday he visited
the Manhattan office of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. He turned
over his passport to immigration officials.

The deputy district director of the Immigration Service, James Jasey, said he
could not reveal the nature of Mr. Zhang's conversations because the service
does ''not discuss applications.'' He refused to say whether Mr. Zhang had
indeed applied for asylum, and other Federal and New York police officials
declined to discuss the question.

Last April, a visiting Chinese engineer sought asylum in the United States after
he lowered himself out of a window of the Chinese Consulate with a fire hose.
The hose gave way and the man, who was 46 at the time, broke his ankle in the
fall.

Body Found on Roof


Yesterday at 7:30 A.M., the body of Mr. Zhang was found on the roof of the
consulate, a 20-story building at 520 12th Avenue, between 42d and 43d Streets,
said a police spokesman, Officer Joseph McConville.

Mr. Zhang arrived in the United States with six other officials of the Textile
Ministry on Dec. 5, Officer McConville said. Mr. Jasey said Mr. Zhang had
entered the country in San Francisco accompanied by only five ministry
officials, whom he described as engineers.

When the delegation was leaving for Guyana, Mr. Zhang contacted police officers
of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the airport.

Interviewed Officials


Mr. Zhang was taken to the Immigration Service's office at the airport, where
officials interviewed him, Officer McConville said.

On Monday, Mr. Jasey said, Mr. Zhang went to the service's New York office at 26
Federal Plaza, spoke to officials and left voluntarily. It was not clear whether
he turned over his passport on Sunday or Monday.

According to Officer McConville, Mr. Zhang went to the Chinese Consulate at 1
A.M. Tuesday and asked to return to China. The consulate, Office McConville
said, had arranged for Mr. Zhang to be interviewed by agents of the Federal
Bureau of Investigation at 11 A.M. yesterday, an interview that never took
place.

Question of Jurisdiction


Although the police said Mr. Zhang's body was found at 7:30 A.M., officials at
the Medical Examiner's office said Mr. Zhang was not pronounced dead until three
hours later, when an ambulance crew of the Emergency Medical Service examined
the body.

The State Department said it would not comment on the circumstances of the death
because the matter was under investigation by the police. It was unclear how
extensive an inquiry the police could conduct because police departments cannot
usually enter an embassy or consulate except at the invitation of the diplomats
there, officials said. A State Department spokesman, Vivienne Ascher, said last
night that the jurisdictional question was a ''very complicated issue.''

An F.B.I. spokesman, Joseph Valiquette, said he could not comment on the case.

The consulate building, which overlooks the Hudson River, was once operated by
the Sheraton Hotel chain and was purchased by the Chinese Government in 1979.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              82 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 24, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FORGED PAPERS MEAN CUSTODY FOR 77 CUBANS

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 846 words


After more than four years of trying to join their relatives in the United
States, 77 Cubans have found themselves under detention by American immigration
authorities - without a country to call their own and, they say, victims of a
scheme to defraud them.

The Cubans arrived together Friday afternoon

 at Kennedy International Airport on an Iberia Airlines flight from Madrid. They
were detained after officials became suspicious of the large number of
passengers carrying copies of the same document authorizing political asylum in
the United States, according to detainees and their relatives.

Upon examination, the papers were found to be ''not legal for entry into the
United States,'' and the passengers were taken into custody, according to a
statement issued by the Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington.
The immigration service is to seek to deport the refugees at hearings scheduled
for this week.

Yesterday, an immigration service supervisor in New York, Carmen Ortiz, declined
to comment on the case.

Documents Cost $60

The Cubans said their entry documents may have been forged. But they said they
were duped by a lawyer in Madrid who took advantage of their desire to rejoin
their families. They said they paid him about $60 each for the documents, and
$300 more for airfare.

''We fell for a scam, one that was so well executed that even the I.N.S. was
fooled at first,'' said Maria Cristina Camarena, one of the detainees, in a
telephone interview yesterday. ''But now that we are here, we will do everything
we can to stay. We don't want to go back.'

The refugees also fear that if they are deported, they may be denied re-entry to
Spain. In order to leave, they say, many surrendered their Cuban passports;
others, who did not have Cuban passports, gave up the Spanish document of
political exile they were granted when they arrived in Madrid.

''At this point, we are stateless,'' said Mrs. Camarena. ''Most of us have no
documents at all.''

Many Left Cuba in 1980

According to relatives of the detainees, many of those being held left Cuba
early in 1980 after seeking asylum in the Peruvian Embassy in Havana. It was
that initial influx of 10,000 disaffected Cubans onto the embassy grounds that
triggered the exodus of 125,000 refugees that came to be known as the Mariel
boatlift.

Many of the relatives of the refugees say they themselves fled Cuba at the same
time and were separated from family members during the chaotic departure from
Cuba. It is only by chance, they say, that they are in the United States and
their relatives are barred from entering.

''These people fled Cuba rejecting the Communist system, so there is nothing
more logical than that they should want to settle here,'' said Osvaldo Alvarez,
whose nephew and niece are among those being held. ''They have asked repeatedly
during the past four years to be permitted to rejoin their families, but there
has been no response from the authorities.''

The Reagan Administration last week announced an agreement with Cuba that will
allow 20,000 Cubans a year to immigrate to the United States. It also agreed to
admit 3,000 political prisoners now held in Cuban jails, but it is not clear
whether the 77 detainees will qualify under either heading.

Both the refugees and their relatives say that they were originally approached
in Madrid by a man who claimed to be a Cuban-American lawyer with ties to State
Department officials in Washington.

The supposed lawyer, they said, offered to use these connections to obtain
political asylum in the United States for the refugees.

Initial skepticism about the authenticity of the man's claims was eased, the
refugees and their relatives said, when the Spanish police examined the papers
and allowed the refugees to depart.

On arrival at Kennedy, the papers were initially accepted as genuine by
immigration officials, according to refugees and their relatives. ''My husband
made it through customs and was waiting for our luggage when they called him
back because there were so many people with the same piece of paper,'' said
Mariana Abran, a detainee.

'

A Professional Operation'

''The papers looked very, very official,'' said Joaquin Pradas, an Iberia
Airlines spokesman. ''This was obviously a professional operation.''

After initial questioning at the airport, 26 of the Cubans were sent to an
immigration service detention center on Varick Street in Manhattan. The rest,
mostly family groups, are now at a Howard Johnson's hotel in Queens, where their
food and lodging is being paid for by Iberia Airlines.

Yesterday, relatives went to the Varick Street center in hopes of a brief
reunion with the detainees, but they were turned away by a guard and told to
return today.

Nieves Lezcano had gone to visit her son, Domingo Emilio Alvarez Lezcano, and
his wife, whom she has not seen since leaving Cuba.

''I ended up on a plane to the United States while my son was sent to Spain,''
she said. ''I have not smiled in four years.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              83 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 27, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

13 CUBAN REFUGEES WITH FAKE PAPERS FLEE FROM CUSTODY

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 780 words


Thirteen of the 77 Cubans detained by immigration authorities at Kennedy
International Airport last week have ''absconded'' from the Queens hotel where
they were being held, immigration officials said yesterday.

The officials also said that, because of a lack of space in the New York
detention center, 26 others were sent to a center in Houston on Christmas Eve
without notice to their lawyers or relatives.

The Cubans who fled were among those supposed to appear for hearings in New York
yesterday on their requests for political asylum, said Duane Austin, an
Immigration and Naturalization Service spokesman. ''But when we started
proceedings and took a count, we found that 13 had not showed up,'' he said.



38 Still Held at Hotel

The whereabouts of the missing Cubans were unknown. But Mr. Austin indicated
that the immigration service might move to prevent the flight of the remaining
38 Cubans still being held at the hotel if the agency ''foresees a problem.''

The 13 missing Cubans had been held at the JFK Plaza Hotel in Queens under the
custody of Iberia Airlines, which flew the group of 77 from Madrid last Friday.
They were detained, immigration authorities said, because the documents allowing
them into the country as political refugees were found to be fake. The Cubans,
while acknowledging that the papers might have been forged, said they obtained
them in Madrid from a man who represented himself as a lawyer with connections
in the State Department.

Under international aviation agreements, Iberia must provide food and lodging
for the detained passengers until their status is resolved. Mr. Austin said the
airline might be ''subject to a fine if they don't present the individuals'' for
hearings.

Ray Wort, Iberia's marketing manager in the United States, said the airline had
hired a private security service to guard the Cubans. He said: ''We're not a law
enforcement agency. What are we supposed to do, shoot our passengers?''

Deportation hearings for the 38 detainees still in custody in New York began
yesterday at Federal Plaza amid complaints of procedural irregularities by
detainees, their relatives, Hispanic community groups and the lawyers
representing them.

Immigration Judge John Speer granted lawyers' requests for a 10-day delay to
prepare formal petitions for political asylum on behalf of some of the detainees
still being held in Queens. But relatives of the 26 detainees transferred to
Houston complained that the immigration authorities had sought to deceive them.

''We're being kicked around like a football,'' complained Nieves Lezcano, whose
son and daughter-in-law were among those transferred. ''It's like dealing with
Fidel Castro all over again.''

Immigration Service Criticized

Mr. Austin said the detainees had been sent to Houston ''purely and simply
because there was no space for them in New York.'' There are no other detention
centers in the Northeast, he said, and all the centers in Miami were full.

But detainees and their relatives, some of whom had flown to New York from as
far away as San Diego and Miami, said the transfer would make it harder for them
to prepare their cases and was designed to keep them ignorant of their rights.

''We were not given any kind of explanation,'' said Manuel Pocero, one of the
transferees, in a telephone interview from Houston. ''When they took us to the
airport, we thought they were sending us back to Spain. We still haven't been
told anything about our cases, and none of us has seen a lawyer yet.''

Amado Cid, who was separated from his son Leif and daughter Heidi when they left
Havana airport in 1980, said that an interrogation on the case of his two
children, who are now teen-agers and flew alone on the Iberia flight, took place
without the presence of a lawyer.

''The immigration people threatened me and said I was lying,'' said Mr. Cid, who
lives in Miami and has taken a leave from his job as a mechanic to secure the
release of his children. ''They told me that my children will never be admitted
to the United States.''

Three immigration service officials in New York were said to be unavailable and
did not return messages left for them. A fourth official refused comment.

Mr. De Mell said he plans to file petitions requesting the release of the
detainees while hearings on the political asylum motion are held. That move is
backed by Hispanic community and social service groups.

''We want these people released into the care of their relatives,'' said Israel
Romero, a representative of the Cuban Patriotic Junta, an exile group. ''After
that, the normal legal processes can be carried out.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              84 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 17, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BAR TO DEPORTING OF CUBANS STAYED

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 748 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Jan. 17


A Federal appeals court said today that the Government could send back to Cuba
hundreds of Cubans being held in the Atlanta Penitentiary.

The court's action stayed a Federal district judge's ruling that forbade the
Government to deport any Cubans who were now or ever had been in the Atlanta
penitentiary, until their appeals for asylum were decided by Federal immigration
officials.

Earlier today, however, the judge whose ruling was stayed ordered 34 of the
Cubans released from the Atlanta penitentiary and perhaps from the threat of
deportation. The judge, Marvin Shoob, said the Government had found that the
Cubans had committed no crime and posed no danger to American society.



No Deportations for 30 Days

The practical effect of the appeals court ruling is unclear, lawyers for the
Cubans said. In any case, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said no one
would be deported for 30 days.

Lawyers for the Justice Department and for the Cubans said they did not know how
the appeals court's ruling affected Judge Shoob's action today. The Justice
Department can appeal that order, but in Washington, a department spokesman said
no decision had been made.

A lawyer for the refugees, Dale Schwartz, said the Cubans' legal team would
immediately appeal the higher court's stay of the original prohibition to the
Supreme Court. He said they would ask the Court to reinstate the terms of Judge
Shoob's October ruling barring the deportations. The tangled legal issues can be
decided only by the Supreme Court, according to Mr. Schwartz.

Experts who have read the terse appeals court ruling are dubious about its
application. On one hand, a legal expert said, it might not apply to any Cuban
who immediately filed an individual appeal for political asylum. On the other
hand, the Government might be able, on the basis of the ruling, to deport such a
Cuban as a criminal.

In his court today, Judge Shoob said to the representative of the Justice
Department, ''Just do it a little at a time,'' meaning dealing with the cases of
the Cubans. He pointed out to Assistant United States Attorney Sharon Douglas
Stokes that Cuba had ''only agreed to take back 100 to 150 a month,'' and he
said he would hold hearings on the release or deportation of 80 more Cubans.

Of the 125,000 Cubans who came to the United States four years ago in boats
sailing from the port of Mariel, 2,746 are in confinement and have been
designated ''excludable aliens'' by the Government. Among them were 400 people
who were confined as dangerous when they arrived in Florida. More than 1,500 of
the refugees are being held in Atlanta.

On Dec. 14, Havana agreed to take back the ''excludable'' refugees, in exchange
for the reinstitution of normal immigration relations between the United States
and Cuba.

Shoob Ordered Time for Appeals

Two months earlier, however, Judge Shoob forbade the Government to deport the
unwanted refugees without first allowing them to seek political asylum. That was
the order that was stayed today by the United States Court of Appeals for the
11th Circuit.

Judge Shoob noted today that the Federal Government, through a review board, had
found no reason to continue holding 112 of the 1,500 refugees who were in the
Atlanta prison.

He said he would continue to set hearings every 10 days to two weeks for the
Cuban inmates who have been approved for release and who have sponsoring
families.

Asked about the conduct of the 34 inmates whose release was ordered, Mrs. Stokes
cited three violations of prison rules.

Judge Shoob questioned Mrs. Stokes closely after she said that one of the
prisoners had been discovered smoking a marijuana cigarette on July 4. Judge
Shoob noted that the review board must have known about that.

''Tell me a good reason why they shouldn't be released,'' he said to Mrs.
Stokes. ''The Government has made the determination that they're not dangerous.
I don't want the Government telling the news media afterwards that they're
dangerous, since you have the opportunity right here in this courtroom to
support that statement, and you're not doing it.''

He also noted that it cost the Federal Government more to keep 1,500 Cubans in
the Federal Penitentiary here than it would if they were freed.

''It wasn't my decision,'' said Mrs. Stokes. ''These cases are the marginal
ones. They very well could be wrong. They had to make the decision at the time,
since Cuba wouldn't take them back.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Cubans (page A16)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              85 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 15, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Nazi Suspect Loses Appeal In Fighting Deportation Order

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 103 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 14


An immigration appeals board ruled today that John Demjanjuk, a retired
Cleveland automobile worker accused of being a Nazi war criminal, should be
deported from the United States.

The Board of Immigration Appeal dismissed Mr. Demjanjuk's appeal of a May 1984
decision by Adolph Angelilli, an administrative law judge, that he should be
deported and also rejected his request for asylum. He may now appeal to Federal
court.

Mr. Demjanjuk is accused of being a guard known as ''Ivan the Terrible,''
responsible for the deaths of thousands of Jews at the Treblinka camp in Poland.
He denies the charges.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              86 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 24, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
First of CubansSent Back Home

BYLINE: By Katherine Roberts, Caroline Rand Herron and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 326 words


Only hours after the last legal obstacle to their deportation was lifted last
week, 23 Cuban aliens were put on board a chartered Boeing 727 at Dobbins Air
Force Base northwest of Atlanta for a two-hour flight to Havana. The 23 men, 16
of whom had asked not to be returned to Cuba, are the first of more than 2,700
refugees who the Government of Fidel Castro has agreed to repatriate, in return
for Washington's resumption of a normal immigration policy.

The 2,746 were among the more than 120,000 Cubans who fled on the Freedom
Flotilla from the fishing village of Mariel four years ago. Most of them have
settled in nicely, immigration authorities say. But those classified by
Washington as ''excludable aliens'' ended up in the Federal peniteniary in
Atlanta or in jails or mental institutions elsewhere, undeportable because Cuba
would not take them back and unreleasable because of their criminal past, mental
records or criminal activity after their arrival.

The diplomatic accord reached on Dec. 14 was the first with Havana during the
Reagan Administration. Attorneys for the detainees sought to block their
deportation on the grounds that their reception in Cuba was uncertain, despite
promises by the Castro Government that they would be treated fairly, and that
they should be given hearings on requests for political asylum.

Repatriation began after the Justice Department won reversal, after an emergency
appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, of a Federal
district court judge's order barring the transfer because of what he called
unresolved legal issues. The Department had argued that his order threatened to
disrupt arrangements Havana had agreed to.

Under the December accord, the United States would return up to 100 of the
detainees a month, and allow 20,000 Cuban immigrants a year. In addition, the
United States has promised to accept about 3,000 Cuban political prisoners and
their families.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Cuban refugees being transported from Atlanta Federal
penitentiary

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              87 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 13, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE VOTES TO PROHIBIT EMPLOYING ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 842 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 12


Supporters of a comprehensive immigration bill made substantial progress today
in the House of Representatives, which voted to prohibit the hiring of illegal
aliens by employers of four or more persons. By a vote of 321 to 97, the House
approved the ban on employment of illegal aliens, a central provision of the
bill.

Under the bill, an employer would be required to ask all job applicants for
documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the
United States. An employer, could, for example, satisfy his responsibility by
examining an applicant's Social Security card and driver's license.

The House today also voted, 242 to 155, to establish a telephone verification
system for employers checking the Social Security numbers of applicants. The
amendment was offered by Representative Sam B. Hall Jr., Democrat of Texas, who
said employers could call a ''toll-free government agency telephone number'' to
determine whether a Social Security number was ''invalid, defunct or
inaccurate.''

The employer would then have a ''complete defense'' against any charges against
hiring illegal aliens, he said.  Mr. Hall said this procedure was like the one
used thousands of times every day by merchants to check credit card
transactions.

The premise of the bill is that illegal aliens come to the United States mainly
to get jobs and that denying them jobs would curtail such immigration.  The bill
would also offer legal status to illegal aliens who have lived in this country
continuously since Jan. 1, 1982. In addition, the bill would make it easier for
farmers to bring workers into the countrylegally for seasonal harvesting.



60 Amendments to Go

With 60 amendments still to be considered, the fate of the bill was highly
uncertain. But opponents were downcast today.

One, Helen C. Gonzales of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational
Fund, said she was ''amazed that they are moving so fast.''

In eight hours, the House took action on eight amendments, including one that
would have established procedures for dealing with complaints of employment
discrimination on the basis of national origin or status as an alien.

The basic bill would authorize fines and prison terms for employers who
knowingly hire illegal aliens.

The Senate passed a similar bill by a vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983. The
legislation was sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, in
the Senate and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, in the
House.

The pace of today's action on the bill contrasted with the situation in December
1982, when the same type of bill died on the floor of the House.

Mr. Mazzoli said that a lopsided vote Monday to take up the bill showed that
''the House does not want to do nothing'' about the problem of illegal
immigration. That vote on a resolution clearing the way for the debate to begin
was 291 to 111.

Representative Don Edwards, Democrat of California, a leading opponent of the
bill who is known as a shrewd vote-counter, said today: ''We are not doing as
well as we had hoped. The bill is moving right along. People here know something
should be done. They don't want to go home and say they didn't do anything.''

Mr. Edwards said he did not believe the employer sanctions would be effective in
stopping illegal immigration.

Representative Tony Coelho, another California Democrat, who opposes the bill in
its present form, said: ''There is some discipline on the Republican side. If
they continue that, the bill will probably pass. The Democrats are rather free
and will be split. That split may be enough to carry the bill.''

The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., after blocking action on the
bill last year, reversed himself and set aside this entire week for debate on
the legislation.

Representatives Robert Garcia of the Bronx and E. (Kika) de la Garza of Texas,
both Democrats who are Hispanic, complained that the bill was full of
''hypocrisy'' because it purports to curtail illegal immigration but provides
for the labor needs of farmers dependent on undocumented workers.



'Some Degree of Hypocrisy'


Mr. de la Garza, the chairman of the Agriculture Committee, noted that the bill
relied on employers to help enforce the ban on hiring illegal aliens. ''This is
ironic,'' he said, ''and it also has some degree of hypocrisy.''

He said proponents of the bill ''are saying how these employers abuse, how they
are not reliable and how they do everything possible to subjugate undocumented
workers, but then they are going to trust them to document that they are here
legally.''

By a vote of 404 to 9 the House approved an amendment that would prohibit
employment discrimination on the basis of national origin or alien status. The
amendment was offered by Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts.

Some opponents to the bill contend to avoid penalties for hiring illegal aliens
employers would avoid hiring citizens who look or sound foreign.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              88 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 14, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FINES FOR HIRING ALIENS ENDORSED IN HOUSE VOTE ON IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1044 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 13


The House of Representatives today endorsed the principle that employers should
be penalized for hiring illegal aliens, one of the most important elements of a
comprehensive immigration bill.

The bill would outlaw the employment of illegal aliens and would subject
employers to a civil fine of up to $2,000 for each illegal alien hired.

The House affirmed its support for the employer sanctions by rejecting a
proposal to delete them from the bill. The vote was 304 to 120. The proposal was
made by Representative Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California, who is leading
the opposition to the bill.



Counterproposal Defeated


Twenty Republicans joined 100 Democrats in support of the Roybal amendment,
while 164 Democrats and 140 Republicans backed the sanctions. In place of the
employer sanctions Mr. Roybal had proposed to give the Labor Department
additional resources to improve enforcement of existing labor laws on the theory
that employers hired illegal aliens because they could be exploited.

By a vote of 274 to 137, the House also rejected a proposal to end employer
sanctions after three years. The amendment was offered by Representative
Patricia Schroeder, Democrat of Colorado, another opponent of the bill.

After these votes the chief House sponsor of the bill, Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, declared: ''We now have employer sanctions in our
bill. We have employer sanctions with strong teeth, but with strong protections
against unintended employment discrimination. I salute the courage of the
House.''

The Senate passed a similar bill with employer sanctions by a vote of 76 to 18
in May 1983. Both bills would offer amnesty to many illegal aliens already in
the United States and would make it easier for farmers to import aliens for
seasonal work harvesting crops.

The House today indicated that it had some ambivalence about employer sanctions
by voting to delete criminal penalties from the bill. These included a $3,000
fine and one year in prison. The vote to eliminate the criminal penalties, taken
with sparse attendance, was 14 to 12. in a sparsely attended House. No one
demanded a roll- call.  vote.  On another issue, the House tonight rejected, by
a vote of 231 to 168, a proposal to set a limit on legal immigration to the
United States.  Representative Carlos J. Moorhead, Republican of California,
proposed to set the limit at 450,000 a year, excluding refugees. He said this
was a ''reasonable ceiling.'' But Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat
of New Jersey, denounced the proposed limit, saying it would interfere with
family reunification, one of the long-standing goals of United States
immigration policy.

Supporters of the bill apparently believed that the criminal penalties would be
restored in negotiations with the Senate if the bill is passed by the House. The
Senate bill authorizes criminal penalties of six months in prison and a $1,000
fine for an employer found to have engaged in ''a pattern or practice'' of
violations.

Today's action came in the face of what one Republican described as ''guerrilla
warfare'' against the bill by about 20 lawmakers who fear that a crackdown on
illegal aliens poses a threat to the civil rights and civil liberties of
American citizens.

Late Tuesday night the House voted 242 to 155 to establish a telephone
verification system that employers could use to validate the Social Security
numbers of people applying for jobs. The system was proposed by Representative
Sam B. Hall Jr., a Texas Democrat, who said that employers could call a
''toll-free Government agency telephone number'' to determine whether a Social
Security number was ''invalid, defunct or inaccurate.'' The employer would then
have a ''complete defense'' against any charge of hiring illegal aliens.

Government Is Responsible


Under this procedure, Mr. Hall said, ''a Government agency rather than the
employer is responsible for verifying the job applicant's eligibility to work.''

The Reagan Administration strongly supports the bill but opposed Mr. Hall's
amendment, preferring to study the feasibility of such a system.

Under another section of the bill, employers are required to ask job applicants
for two identification documents to verify that they are citizens or aliens
authorized to work in this country.

There was acrimonious debate over the bill's identification requirements, which
members of racial and ethnic minority groups found particularly distasteful.
Representative Parren J. Mitchell, a Maryland Democrat who is black, said,
''Even the most remote suggestion of a study of an identification system is
repugnant to the democratic process.''

'Ethnicity' Listing Opposed


Representative Norman Y. Mineta, an American of Japanese ancestry who was
interned by the Federal Government in World War II, said the bill raised the
prospect of a ''central national data bank listing everyone's ethnicity.'' The
California Democrat said this prospect was ''abhorrent.''

Mr. Mazzoli and Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican, said the
bill did not require identification cards and contained elaborate safeguards to
prevent discrimination on the basis of race or national origin. Nevertheless,
the House, by a vote of 57 to 51, eliminated a section of the bill calling for a
Presidential study of more ''secure'' methods of identification.

The House's work today continued its slow but steady progress on the bill, which
would make the biggest changes in immigration law in 32 years.

With about 50 amendments still to be considered, it appeared unlikely that the
House would complete work on the legislation this week. But House leaders have
said they would permit the debate to continue next week. The House has yet to
debate two complex sections dealing with temporary foreign workers and the
amnesty for illegal aliens.

By a vote of 285 to 133, the House today approved a provision of the bill that
prohibits immigration officers from entering a farm or open field without a
search warrant or the owner's consent. Farmers and civil libertarians supported
the restriction. The Reagan Administration strongly opposed it, saying it would
interfere with enforcement.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              89 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 23, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

FARMERS RELIEVED OVER PROPOSAL FOR ALIEN WORKERS IN NEW BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1250 words

DATELINE: FRESNO, Calif., June 21


In the fields and orchards of the Southwest, growers are letting out a muted
sigh of relief. Congress has taken a major step toward granting them something
that they had sought for 20 years, a new Federal program allowing them to import
foreign workers to harvest their crops.

Immigration legislation sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, was
narrowly approved in the House Wednesday, with a temporary alien workers'
program added last week under pressure from agricultural interests.

Mickey George, whose family has tilled the fertile soil of California's
bountiful Central Valley for three generations, said, ''It's not a panacea by
any means for agriculture, but at least we'll have a program that provides
availability of workers for perishable crops, and that was our bottom line for
acceptance of Simpson-Mazzoli.''

'The Best We Could Get'


Another Central Valley farmer, Don Rosendahl, said the legislation might result
in higher costs to consumers for some fruits and vegetables. But he said, ''We
know that illegal immigration was getting out of hand, and the guest worker
program was probably the best we could get.''

The legislation approved would make it unlawful for employers to knowingly hire
illegal aliens, the dominant source of labor for many growers in Arizona, Texas
and California. The program growers pressed for, which was included in the House
legislation, would permit growers to import noncitizens temporarily to harvest
perishable crops on as little as three days' notice.

Although the Senate version does not provide for such a program, growers
expressed confidence that some form of it would survive a House-Senate
conference to work out differences in the two bills.

There are some indications that their optimism may be premature. Senator Simpson
has said he opposes any ''open-ended guest worker program'' in the law. As the
conference committee drafts the final language this summer it is likely to come
under heavy pressure from organized labor to delete or drastically weaken the
provision for importing alien workers.

'It's Really a Crap Shoot'


For all the satisfaction growers said they felt over having won inclusion of the
foreign worker plan in the House bill, farmers and farm labor experts
interviewed in California's prime agricultural area, said it was impossible to
predict the full impact of the legislation on agriculture and the prices
consumers would pay for their food.

''At this point, it's really a crap shoot,'' said Gary Johnston, a farm labor
specialist for the University of California, noting that much depended on what
the conference committee did and how the Federal Government decided to
administer the legislation.

One unanswered question, some analysts said, is whether there will, in fact, be
a substantial demand for foreign agricultural workers. Sweeping economic and
social changes have sometimes created a surplus of farm workers in recent years,
especially in California.

Farmers Relied on Immigrants


For generations, farmers in the Southwest have relied upon, and have often been
accused of exploiting, the cheap labor of successive generations of immigrants,
from Mexico and Central America, China, Japan, Yugoslavia, Portugal and Armenia,
as well as workers from states that were ravaged by the economic forces of the
Great Depression.

In 1942, faced with a wartime labor shortage, growers were allowed to import
thousands of Mexican field hands annually under a program that permitted them to
bring the laborers in as needed. Under pressure from organized labor, the
program was ended in 1964. The next year, Cesar Chavez began his drive to
unionize farm workers.

Although Mr. Chavez has managed since then to organize relatively few field
hands in California or any other state, the pressure to unionize has been
credited by Mr. Johnston and other researchers with having helped raise
California farm wages to a level more than 22 percent higher than the national
average. The average salary of California farm workers was $5.16 an hour in
1982.

With sales of almost $15 billion annually, California is the nation's largest
agricultural producer. It is estimated that at least half of its agricultural
field hands are illegal aliens, some of whom have been in this country many
years.

The loss of the Mexican workers and the rise in wages stimulated hurried efforts
by growers to develop labor-saving mechanical harvesters for many crops. This
has eliminated thousands of jobs since 1964 while increasing growers' needs for
a more stable, skilled labor force familiar with the new equipment.

Since 1979, California farm workers, including illegal aliens, have been
eligible for unemployment benefits in the off season as well as welfare
payments.

The availability of these benefits in the off season and the willingness of some
farmers to pay higher wages to keep a stable work force, according to
economists, have encouraged many farm workers to sink roots in the Central
Valley. Some have bought homes, drawn unemployment in the winter, and then at
harvest time commuted to local farm jobs instead of migrating from state to
state as their parents might have done.

In recent years there has been a surplus of farm labor in California, suggesting
that there might be little need for a new foreign worker plan.

In Imperial County near the Mexican border, Michael Wallman, manager of the
local Farm Bureau, said so many Mexicans commuted legally across the border,
drawing unemployment checks in the off season, that ''we have all the labor we
need without guest workers.'' A limited number of nonresident aliens are allowed
to work in the country.

''We have a city of 750,000 right next door'' in Mexico, he said.

Farm Workers Are Available


Here in the Central Valley and in farming areas farther to the North, many
growers concede they have sizable local labor forces that they can count on. But
they insist that if they are no longer able to hire illegal aliens under terms
of the immigration bill, they must have access in emergencies to foreign ''guest
workers'' on short notice because the cyclical nature of agriculture and
vagaries of the weather often produce a high demand for labor at peak periods.

''We have to be assured of a dependable supply of labor, especially for the
perishable labor-intensive crops,'' said George Lindemann, whose family will
begin harvesting some 4,000 acres of cantaloupes next week.

Roy Gabriel, an official of the California Farm Bureau, said: ''I don't think
the floodgates are automatically going to open and 5,000 guest workers are going
to come in, but some years you'll need them. It's insurance.''

Moreover, Mr. Johnson, the university researcher, pointed out, the immigration
bill could radically alter labor patterns in other ways now unforeseen. No one
knows, for example, he said, if the thousands of illegal aliens now working as
farm laborers would remain in agriculture if they are granted legal status as
the legislation would provide or whether they would move to the cities.
Conversely, he said, those now in the cities might be attracted by higher wages
in agriculture.

''For the first time ever,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''agriculture will have to be
compared with other industries. The Simpson-Mazzoli bill may be the biggest
challenge facing employers they've ever seen.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of farmer Mickey George

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              90 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 30, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ISSUE AND DEBATE;
MEASURE TO ADMIT ALIEN FARM WORKERS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1357 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 29


Both houses of Congress have passed comprehensive immigration bills, but they
differ on whether to create a special program to admit aliens as agricultural
workers.

The House has approved a program under which foreign workers could enter the
United States for up to 11 consecutive months to perform seasonal harvesting of
perishable fruit and vegetables.  The Senate bill would make it somewhat easier
for farmers to obtain visas for temporary foreign workers but would not
authorize a special new program such as the one in the House bill.

The legislation now ''hangs by a thread,'' says its chief Senate sponsor, Alan
K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming. He says he dislikes the provisions for
foreign workers in the House bill because they could lead to ''an open-ended
guest worker program.''

The House voted to create the special program after hearing a bipartisan chorus
of appeals on behalf of farmers, particularly those in Western states who depend
on illegal aliens to help pick grapes, apples, cherries, tomatoes and other
produce. The growers said they needed a ready supply of aliens, legal or
illegal, to do the work that Americans would not.

The foreign worker program was proposed by Representatives Leon E. Panetta, a
California Democrat, and Sid Morrison, a Washington State Republican. Hispanic
groups and organized labor denounced the proposal, saying it was hypocrisy. If
Congress was passing legislation to curtail the influx of illegal aliens, they
said, it made no sense to create a special exception for one group of employers.

The Background

The bills would prohibit employment of illegal aliens but offer legal status to
many of them already in the United States. Under current law, 15,000 to 20,000
aliens enter the United States each year for seasonal farm work. The law sets no
numerical limit.  Presidents Ford, Carter and Reagan have all wanted to stem
illegal immigration.All three endorsed the same basic combination of proposals:
employer sanctions to penalize those who hire illegal aliens and amnesty to
avoid the need for a huge roundup.

A Federal study commission, headed by the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, president
of the University of Notre Dame, endorsed these proposals in 1981, but it
rejected a major expansion of the existing foreign worker program.

The commission recommendations were incorporated in bills offered by Senator
Simpson and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. The Senate
has twice passed the legislation by more than 4 to 1, in August 1982 and May
1983. By 216 to 211, the House approved a similar bill last month. The vote to
adopt the Panetta amendment was 228 to 172, with only 15 Republicans opposed.

The debate over aliens and agriculture is filled with references to the
experience of the United States and Mexico from 1942 to 1964. Four million to
five million Mexican agricultural workers came to the United States under .
what became known as the bracero program.  each Mexican worker had a contract
with a particular employer in the United States. The Federal Government
guaranteed provisions of the contract relating to wages and transportation costs
if an employer failed to meet his obligations. Mexican workers were generally
admitted for a maximum of six months at a time.  Critics of that program said
there was much exploitation and abuse of the braceros, or laborers.

For the ProgramThe choice,'' Mr. Panetta said, ''is not whether there will be
foreign workers in this country, but whether there will be legal protection or
illegal exploitation of those workers.''

Under his proposal, Mr. Panetta said, ''domestic workers would have first
preference for available jobs'' and ''could not be undercut by cheap foreign
labor.'' But, he said, ''foreign workers would be entitled to adequate housing,
insurance against injury, decent working conditions and fair wages.''

Mr. Panetta said a ''tremendous violation of rights'' exists, and ''what we are
trying to do here is to take a step toward a legalized system that will in fact
protect rights.''

Those admitted under the new program would not be assigned to a specific
employer. They could move about in a geographical area designated by the
Attorney General. Mr. Panetta said this was another protection for the foreign
worker because he could quit a job if he was not satisfied with wages or working
conditions.

Representative Robert J. Lagomarsino, a California Republican, said that if the
immigration bill was passed without the Panetta amendment, American farmers
''will not have the labor force to harvest their crops.'' The loss of crops,
according to this argument, would result in shortages of commodities and, in
turn, higher prices to consumers.

The farmers say time is of the essence because perishable crops, are sensitive
to changing weather, ripen unpredictably and must be harvested in hours. Thus
the Panetta proposal requires the Attorney General to rule on a farmer's
application within 72 hours if ''extraordinary and unusual circumstances''
create a special demand for foreign workers. Supporters of the Panetta amendment
said the principal beneficiaries would be small farmers who could not afford a
permanent work force.

Against the ProgramOpponents said the Panetta proposal would weaken labor
protections for foreign and domestic workers, permit exploitation and lead to a
direct loss of jobs for citizens.

They said the current law permits issuing visas to aliens wishing to perform
''temporary services or labor'' in the United States. But, they said, California
growers have made scarcely any effort to take advantage of that law. Some East
Coast farmers have brought in aliens under the law for many years.

Under the law, employers must demonstrate to the Labor Department that workers
are not available domestically and using aliens would not adversely affect the
wages and working conditions of Americans in similar jobs. Critics of the
Panetta proposal said it would not require such ''labor certification.''

Representative George Miller, Democrat of California, said the new program would
depress farm wages because ''there will be no comparison'' with the domestic
agricultural labor market.

Representative Charles A. Hayes, Democrat of Illinois, said that ''previous
guest worker programs, in this country and in Europe, have tended to encourage
undocumented immigration of foreign workers who then refuse to return to their
countries.''

The Panetta proposal was called ''an enormous bailout of agribusiness'' by
Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat.

Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas, called it a ''rent- a-slave
program.''

Similarly, Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said the
affected aliens would be ''hired help with no rights.'' The proposal, he said,
gives farmers ''the most extraordinary set of exemptions from economics, from
competition, from immigration laws.''

Even without the Panetta amendment, the Simpson-Mazzoli legislation would make a
special allowance for farmers, giving them three years more than other employers
to end the use of illegal aliens.

Representative Bill Richardson, a New Mexico Democrat, said foreign workers
would have no job guarantee under the Panetta move, so ''they could spend a
considerable amount of money to get here and find no jobs once they arrive.''

The OutlookIt appears unlikely that Congress would pass a bill with the Panetta
amendment in just the form the House adopted. More than 40 House members who
voted for the bill have since demanded the amendment be dropped.

If there is a House-Senate conference, Mr. Simpson has said he would try to
restrict the foreign worker program, perhaps by limiting the aliens who could
come each year.  He said the conferees might extend the agricultural transition
program for two years, so farmers would have a total of five to comply with the
ban on hiring illegal aliens.  But growers have a strong lobby, and, according
to members of Congress, they could probably block any effort to eliminate
special treatment of their industry.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              91 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 12, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE TO DEBATE IMMIGRATION BILL DESPITE PLEAS OF HISPANIC GROUPS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1016 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 11


The House of Representatives voted today to begin a long-awaited debate on a
comprehensive immigration bill, overriding the objections of Hispanic groups
that wanted the debate put off indefinitely.

The 291-to-111 vote cleared the way for debate on the bill and 69 amendments
that deal with all its major provisions. House Democratic leaders have set aside
a full week for debate.

The Senate passed a similar bill by 76 to 18 in May 1983. Four House committees
completed action on the bill in June of last year, but the House leadership
deferred action at the request of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and other
opponents.



Vote Was on Procedure


Today's House vote was on a procedural issue: whether to adopt the resolution,
or rule, setting the terms for debate. But the vote was significant because
there would have been no further proceedings on the bill if the rule had been
defeated.

The bill, called the Simpson-Mazzoli bill for ,its chief sponsors, Senator Alan
K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, would authorize fines and prison terms for employers who
knowingly hired illegal aliens. The House version would also give legal status
to illegal aliens who had lived continuously in the United States since Jan. 1,
1982, and it would make it easier for farmers to bring aliens into the country
for seasonal harvesting work.

The vote today was more lopsided than many House members had expected, but it
was not necessarily an accurate indicator of sentiment on the bill itself. Many
lawmakers said that the immigration issue deserved a hearing and that the bill
was too important to be killed on a procedural vote. Some Democrats who have
doubts about the bill voted to start debate out of loyalty to the leadership,
which had made a commitment to allow debate.



Some Disagreements Expressed


Voting in favor of the rule were 152 Democrats and 139 Republicans. Eleven
Republicans joined 100 Democrats in voting against it.

There were indications that support for the compromise at the heart of the bill
might be eroding, as conservatives expressed disenchantment with the amnesty for
illegal aliens and liberal Democrats denounced the employer sanctions.

Representative Trent Lott of Mississippi, the Republican whip, urged his
colleagues to vote for the resolution. ''The Immigration Reform and Control Act
has been a long time coming, and it's long overdue,'' he said. ''The problem of
immigration is a ticking time bomb that must be dealt with now if it's to be
dealt with in an effective manner.'' Speaking of illegal immigration, Mr. Lott
said: ''If we don't deal with it now, the problem is not going to go away. It's
not going to get better. It's going to get worse.''

Mr. Mazzoli said the rule was ''open, fair and responsible'' because it imposed
no time limit on debate. ''The bill is not a partisan issue,'' he added. ''There
is support for this bill in the country. A vote against the rule, purely and
simply, is a vote for the status quo.''

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, said: ''There is no question that the issue is
controversial, it's emotional, it's complex, but it's a matter that we must deal
with now. The problem is such that we cannot stay with the status quo.''



Carter's Role Cited

Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, urged his colleagues not
to dodge the issue by defeating the rule. ''This bill,'' he said, ''is the
product of four administrations, Democratic and Republican. The Carter
Administration is the progenitor of this legislation as a result of a task force
that was established by President Carter.''

In response to the House action, Attorney General William French Smith said:

''The nearly 300 members of the House of Representatives who today supported the
rule that now permits full floor consideration of the immigration reform bill
deserve the whole- hearted commendation of the American people.''

But Hispanic members of Congress and some California lawmakers spoke out against
the bill and urged the House not to take it up now. ''The bill is definitely
unfair and is not immigration reform,'' said Representative Edward R. Roybal, a
California Democrat leading the opposition. ''It opens the door to a national
identification system. It is special-interest legislation because it provides
for the importation of millions of guest workers without restriction.''

Representative Don Edwards, another California Democrat, said his ''real
objection'' to the bill was its establishment of penalties against those who
hire illegal aliens. The sanctions, he said, represent ''an opportunity and an
invitation to discriminate.''

Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, argued that the bill would
increase the likelihood of discrimination against ''persons who are black,
brown, yellow or white and speak with an accent.'' He and other opponents of the
bill contend that employers, in an effort to avoid hiring illegal aliens, would
discriminate against citizens and legal aliens of Hispanic or Asian ancestry.

In the New York delegation, there were 19 ayes and 13 nays. In the New Jersey
delegation, nine members voted for the rule and three opposed it. The
Connecticut delegation was evenly divided, with three for and three against.

The variation in regional sentiment on the bill was illustrated by the votes of
lawmakers from states most affected by illegal immigration. The entire Florida
delegation voted to take up the bill. Of the California representatives, 17
supported the rule and 25, all Democrats, opposed it. In the Texas delegation,
19 members voted against the rule and eight supported it.

Thus, more than half of all the negative votes came from California, Texas and
New York.

Originally, most of the opposition to the bill arose from concern about the
employer sanctions. But in recent weeks, there has been evidence of growing
opposition to the section that offers legal status to illegal aliens.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              92 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 15, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE VOTES PLAN TO ADMIT ALIENS TO HARVEST CROPS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1028 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 14


The House of Representatives voted today to admit possibly several hundred
thousand aliens to the United States as temporary workers to harvest fruit and
vegetables.

By a vote of 228 to 172, the House approved a proposal to create a special
foreign-worker program for producers of perishable crops.

The proposal was offered by Representatives Leon E. Panetta, a California
Democrat, and Sid Morrison, a Washington State Republican. It was strongly
supported by farmers, food processors and agricultural officials of some states.



Addition May Hinder Passage


Approval of the amendment complicates efforts to pass a comprehensive
immigration bill to outlaw employment of illegal aliens. With the Panetta
amendment, the bill will probably be unacceptable to many people who might
otherwise vote for it.

Organized labor and some of its allies in Congress support the basic bill, but
strongly oppose the Panetta amendment, saying it would create a big new ''guest
worker'' program.

Under the amendment, farmers could apply to the Attorney General for permission
to bring in foreign workers. They would be admitted to the United States for a
period of up to 11 months ''to perform services or labor in seasonal
agricultural employment.''



Permits Shifting of Jobs


Under the program, Mr. Panetta said, ''foreign workers would not be limited to
one employer, but could move among approved employers within a limited region
established by the Attorney General'' as workers followed the ripening and
harvesting of crops.

Supporters of the Panetta proposal said the provision was necessary to farmers
who have long been dependent on labor from illegal aliens. If the illegal aliens
were not replaced by some other source of labor, the farmers say, their crops
would die in the field.

President Reagan, at his news conference tonight, defended his support of the
immigration bill, saying that the United States had lost control of its borders
and that no nation could do that and survive.

Mr. Reagan said he understood the fears and concerns about the immigration
measure, but he added that steps could be taken to make sure it was not
discriminatory. He said the bill contained very generous amnesty provisions for
individuals who had illegally entered the country before 1982.


Today's debate highlighted a conflict between two interests with strong
political appeal: the requirements of American agriculture and the protection of
workers.

Critics of the proposal said it would open the way to exploitation of aliens
under a Government-sponsored program. Such exploitation, they said, often
occurred under a program that brought four million to five million Mexican
agricultural workers to the United States from 1942 to 1964.

On the other side, Mr. Panetta said perishable crops were ''extremely sensitive
to changing weather conditions'' and often had to be harvested on short notice.
''If this bill works,'' Mr. Panetta said, ''if it terminates or substantially
reduces the number of undocumented workers in this country, then people
producing perishable crops have a choice: Hire domestic workers if they are
available and qualified. If they are not available, hire illegal aliens,
undocumented workers. Or lose your crop.''

Mr. Morrison said the proposal would create ''a legal alternative to hiring
illegal aliens.''

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, denounced the Panetta
amendment, saying it would give the growers ''a virtual total exemption from the
immigration laws of this country'' and would place aliens in a state of
''economic subjugation,'' with no political rights.

The chief sponsors of the immigration legislation are Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky.

The Senate passed its bill by a vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983, and the House
legislation has been gaining momentum after many delays.

The basic bill would make it easier for employers to bring aliens into the
country for seasonal farm work, but the Panetta amendment went several steps
beyond the proposed law.

Farmers Foresee Increase


Under current law, about 20,000 alien farm workers are admitted each year, but
relatively few of them work in California, where many growers rely on illegal
aliens. Farmers estimate that the number of legal alien farm workers could rise
to 200,000 or 300,000 under the Simpson-Mazzoli bill.

The Panetta amendment set no quota, but the California Representative said the
Attorney General would analyze the domestic work force and establish the number
of foreign workers permitted.

Opponents of the proposal estimated it would permit 500,000 workers to come into
the United States each year.

Mr. Panetta said that under the amendment, ''domestic workers would have first
preference for available jobs.''

''Domestic workers could not be undercut by cheap foreign labor, and foreign
workers would be entitled to adequate housing, insurance against injury, decent
working conditions and fair wages,'' he said. ''None of those things is true
today.''

In voting on the Panetta amendment, 90 Democrats joined 138 Republicans in
supporting the proposal. Fifteen Republicans and 157 Democrats voted against it.

Earlier today the House rejected, by a vote of 256 to 164, a proposal to
increase labor protection for foreign workers. It was offered by Representative
George Miller, a California Democrat, who said such protections were ''a matter
of simple justice for those we invite to come and work on our crops.''

Mazzoli Opposed 2 Amendments


Mr. Mazzoli opposed both the Panetta and Miller amendments. He said his bill
took ''a middle-of-the-road, middle-ground position'' between the two.  In
addition, he said the bill already had a special three-year transition program
to help farmers adjust to the prohibition on hiring illegal aliens and avoid any
''loss of fruit and fiber'' from farms.

In other action, the House voted to curtail the legal rights of aliens who
arrive without proper documents, making it easier for immigration authorities to
expel them summarily.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              93 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

BILL SPLITS LAWMAKERS FROM NEW YORK AREA

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 729 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


Representative Major R. Owens of Brooklyn, one of three black members of the New
York Congressional delegation and a vigorous opponent of the immigration bill
that was narrowly approved by the House today, told his colleagues during the
debate that he was often mistaken for a West Indian.

That mistake, said Mr. Owens, who was born in Memphis, illustrated what he
feared most about the bill. He said he believed it would foster hasty and
discriminatory judgments against blacks and other minorities by employers
worried about hiring illegal aliens.

However, Stephen J. Solarz, a Democrat who represents another Brooklyn district
a few miles from Mr. Owens's, felt differently. Mr. Solarz's district, unlike
Mr. Owens's, has relatively few illegal aliens, Mr. Solarz said. While Mr.
Solarz said he was not responding to pressure from his constituents, he endorsed
the bill.

The immigration bill split the New York and New Jersey delegations, and to a
lesser extent the Connecticut members, as have few other recent issues. Many
members said it was the most difficult decision they could remember making.

Uncertainty for Schumer

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, who usually knows his
mind, said he was still unsure as he walked into the chamber to cast his vote.
He finally voted for the bill.

The bill calls for penalties against employers who hire illegal aliens, and
provides for amnesty for those who came to the United States before Jan. 1,
1982. The Senate has already passed a version of the bill. The differences now
have be resolved.

For New York City and New Jersey there were sizable financial interests in the
bill, which in the end were resolved satisfactorally for them, officials said.
City officials say there are about 750,000 illegal aliens in the five boroughs.
New Jersey officials estimate there are about 300,000 illegal aliens in the
state. According to Representative Bruce A. Morrison, Democrat of New Haven,
Connecticut has about 10,000.

Mayor Koch and Governor Kean, who both endorsed the bill, have lobbied for
Federal reimbursement to states and cities for the cost of providing public
assistance, such as welfare and hospital care, to aliens with legal status. The
bill would disqualify legalized aliens from receiving Federal benefits,
including food stamps and Medicaid, for five years.

Prison Costs a Question

Under the House bill, states and cities would receive Federal reimbursement for
these costs, which New York City estimates could be $60 million a year for the
city. But the bill provides no exact figures. The Senate version does not
require hat states and localities be reimbursed for the full cost of services
they provide.

Another matter of concern to the city and New York State is Federal assumption
of the cost of keeping illegal aliens in prison. The city said that it was
saddled with about 100 such prisoners a day charged with various crimes. There
were an estimated 600 illegal aliens in state prisons in April, according to Jay
Michaud, a lobbyist for the city here. Just before final passage, Mr. Schumer
won an amendment that would require the Federal Government, at a cost estimated
at $26 million a year, to reimburse prison costs.

Some of the votes cast were surprising. Although many liberal Democrats opposed
the bill, Representative Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of Hackensack, who likes
to call himself a progressive and whose grandparents came from Sicily in 1918,
strongly supported the measure.

Mr. Torricelli said that he was tired of funds being spent on education for
illegal immigrants while not enough was being devoted to the schooling of
American children.

Another opponent of the bill, Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of the
Bronx and chairman of the Hispanic Caucus in the House, railed against it. One
of his chief objections, he said, was the specter of discrimination against
blacks and Hispanic people by employers.

Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, never really doubted
that he would vote against the bill, but he said, ''It's one of the most
difficult decisions I've ever had to face.''

Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro, Democrat of Queens and chairman of the
Democratic Platform Committee, voted against the bill, saying that it was the
wrong bill at the wrong time.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              94 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

FINAL ACTION ON ALIEN BILL DOUBTED BEFORE RECESS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1022 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 21


Supporters of a comprehensive immigration bill said today that they wanted swift
action to resolve differences between the House and Senate but that they did not
expect final action before next month's Democratic National Convention.

The House approved the legislation Wednesday by a vote of 216 to 211, after an
impassioned debate spanning seven days. The main purpose of the bill is to
curtail the flow of illegal aliens into the United States. The Senate approved a
similar bill in May 1983 by a vote of 76 to 18.

Hispanic groups plan demonstrations against the bill at the Democratic
convention in San Francisco July 16-19, and Hispanic leaders said they would
urge the party to take a strong stand against the bill if it had not become law
by then.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the
House bill, said he felt sure that House and Senate negotiators could achieve a
compromise, but not before the Congressional recess scheduled to begin on Friday
of next week.

''I don't think there is much chance,'' he said, noting that House and Senate

Crime is a growing problem among illegal aliens, who are victims of their
status. Page A10.

conferees had not yet been appointed. ''It would be very hard for me to see this
being pulled off by next week.'' Other members of Congress agreed with his
assessment, but conventional views on this bill have often been wrong. Congress
is scheduled to reconvene July 23, after the Democratic convention.

Officials of the Justice Department and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service met today to refine plans for two big tasks they would have under the
bill: Offering legal status to perhaps two million illegal aliens and enforcing
a prohibition on employment of illegal aliens.

Verne Jervis, spokesman for the immigration service, said officials knew that
some aliens would present counterfeit documents in applying for jobs and in
seeking amnesty. But he said the Government did not expect such document fraud
to be a ''huge problem.''

''We won't make an attempt to have employers judge the authenticity of
documents, but when they see something that is obviously phony, they'll take
action based on their own judgment,'' he added. ''They are likely to refrain
from hiring the person.''

Under the House bill, an employer would be subject to a civil penalty of up to
$2,000 for each illegal alien whom he knowingly hired.

Employers would be required to ask all job applicants for identification
documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens authorized to work in the
United States. Acceptable documents include a United States passport or a
combination of a driver's license with a Social Security card or birth
certificate. The Senate bill contains similar requirements.  Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the chief sponsor of the Senate bill, said he
hoped members of the two houses could start negotiations on a compromise before
the recess begins. He and Mr. Mazzoli said they expected the legislation to go
to a conference committee, where differences between the House and Senate
versions could be quickly worked out. Both chambers would then have to vote
again on final passage.

Even if House and Senate negotiators were appointed this week, they would have
only five or six legislative days to come up with an agreement before the
recess.

A 'Rocky Road' Ahead


The House Speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said he believed final approval of the
bill would not be automatic or easy. ''It's got a rocky road in front of it,''
the Massachusetts Democrat said today. ''It's got a long, tough road ahead of
it.''

Some supporters of the bill have said they hoped to see it signed by President
Reagan on the Fourth of July. Key members of Congress and their aides said that
the rapid action needed to meet such a deadline was possible, but unlikely.

It was not clear today whether the House and Senate negotiators would meet next
week before the recess starts. Mr. Simpson said he was eager for such a meeting.
Congressional aides said the likely Senate negotiators, besides Mr. Simpson,
were Strom Thurmond of South Carolina and Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, both
Republicans, and Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Joseph R. Biden Jr. of
Delaware, both Democrats.

Representative Bill Richardson, Democrat of New Mexico, a member of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus who opposed the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, said debate
over the bill ''will become more politicized because there will be big
demonstrations at the Democratic convention.'' A Republican supporter of the
bill said he feared the convention would be ''a forum for demagoguery'' on the
bill.

One of the key points to be resolved by House and Senate negotiators is the
eligibility date for the amnesty proposed for many illegal aliens already in
this country. Another question is how to meet the needs of farmers in Western
states who have, for many years, employed illegal aliens as seasonal workers to
harvest fruits and vegetables.

The Senate bill would offer legal status to aliens who have resided continuously
in this country since Jan. 1, 1980. The House bill would offer legal status to
those who have lived here continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.

The House bill, unlike its Senate counterpart, would create a special program to
permit farmers to bring aliens into the United States for seasonal work. Mr.
Simpson said this provision of the House bill was ''vexatious.'' He said he
believed there should be ''no open-ended guest worker program.''

As a compromise, he suggested that farmers might be given more time to comply
with the ban on hiring illegal aliens. The House and Senate bills create a
transition program, under which farmers may continue using illegal aliens if
they gradually reduce the number of such workers over a three- year period. Mr.
Simpson said the transition period might be extended by two years, to a total of
five years. Alternatively, he said, Congress might set a limit on the number of
aliens who could be brought into the country each year for farm work.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              95 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 25, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CONFEREES APPROVE A REPRIEVE FOR FARMERS ON END OF HIRING ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 809 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24


House and Senate conferees, nearing final agreement on a comprehensive
immigration bill, decided today to give farmers three years longer than other
employers to discontinue hiring illegal aliens.

The negotiators also adopted a statement of principle saying that illegal aliens
who come forward to obtain legal status should not be subject to penalties for
back taxes owed to the Federal Government. Some members of Congress had
expressed concern that the Internal Revenue Service might try to collect back
taxes and penalties from such aliens, as well as from businesses that failed to
withhold taxes from their wages.

The conferees said they expected to finish work on the immigration bill Tuesday
but still have one major issue to resolve: how to prevent job discrimination
against legal aliens and United States citizens of Hispanic origin.

Critics of the bill have said such discrimination might occur because the
measure would make employers subject for the first time to penalties for hiring
illegal aliens. The critics contend that, to avoid the penalties, employers
might shun job applicants with a foreign accent or dark skin, even if they were
legal aliens or citizens.

Frank and Simpson Negotiating

The House in June approved an amendment offered by Representative Barney Frank,
a Massachusetts Democrat, to prohibit discrimination against legal aliens.
Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the chief sponsor of the Senate
bill, has resisted the amendment, saying there was no need or precedent for it.
He and Mr. Frank, who was in Massachusetts today, said they were still
discussing the issue.

The provision that conferees agreed on today would set up an ''agricultural
labor transition program'' giving farmers three years to adjust to the ban on
employment of illegal aliens. If the bill becomes law, the transition program
would start after six months. In the first year, farmers could employ the same
number of illegal aliens as in the past. They would have to reduce the number of
alien workers by a third each year and would have to discontinue use of such
workers after three years.

Nonagricultural employers, after a six-month education period, could be fined or
imprisoned for hiring illegal aliens.

On Friday, the conferees approved a separate proposal to assist farmers and
ranchers, especially West Coast growers of fruit and vegetables. The proposal
would make it easier for farmers to bring aliens into the United States for
seasonal work harvesting produce.

A Race Against the Clock


Representative Howard L. Berman, a California Democrat who fought this proposal
unsuccessfully on Friday, said today that he would continue the fight on the
floor of the House if the bill came up. The proposal, he said, would create ''a
Government-sponsored union-busting program.''

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, a Kentucky Democrat who is the chief sponsor
of the House bill, said the proposal on seasonal workers was a compromise
accommodating the interests of growers and organized labor.

The bill now faces a race against the clock, since Congress is scheduled to
adjourn Oct. 4 or 5. The House Speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said he would
bring the bill to the floor if a conference agreement got clearance from the
House Rules Committee. The bill needs a special rule granting immunity from
points of order because, technically, the conference report goes beyond the area
of disagreement between the two houses concerning temporary foreign workers.

Farm Group Announces Opposi

tion


Despite the special provisions for agricultural employers, the American Farm
Bureau Federation, which describes itself as the nation's largest farm
organization, with 3.3 million members, today announced its opposition to the
legislation.

Bureau officials said they would try to defeat the measure because it did not
adequately address the needs of producers of perishable commodities. They also
criticized the conferees for rejecting a House provision that said employer
sanctions would not apply to employers of three or fewer workers.

Senator Simpson has assured Speaker O'Neill that he would not ask the House to
act on the conference report without first getting a promise from President
Reagan to sign the legislation. Administration officials met today with David A.
Stockman, director of the Office of Management and Budget, to determine whether
the costs of the bill were acceptable.

Mr. Simpson estimated that the bill would cost $6.4 billion over four years.
That includes $4 billion in social service benefits for illegal aliens who
obtain legal status under the legislation. He estimated it would cost $2.4
billion is for enforcement activities and for administration of a program to
grant legal status to many illegal aliens who are already here.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rep. Peter Rodino Jr.

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              96 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 25, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition


;
AT THE HEART OF U.S. IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 282 words


To the Editor:


Deploying more border patrolmen and removing jobs that lure undocumented workers
into the United States, two approaches cited in a Feb. 13 news article, are not
ways to solve the nation's immigration problems. Once again, the blame is placed
on the victims.

Unless one gets to the reasons people come to this country for work, it will be
difficult to find solutions. The fact is that U.S. employers want a cheap labor
force, whether it is through use of undocumented workers or through ''guest''
employee programs. Further, undocumented people - principally from Mexico - are
driven by conditions of poverty in their own country to seek jobs in the U.S.

There would be some relief of the overall problems if the U.S. would increase
the number of immigration visas from Mexico and other countries by doing away
with country-by-country quotas. That could mean more workers coming to the U.S.
from Mexico, and fewer from Sweden, for example, which never fills its quota.

Further, U.S. labor laws should be enforced for the benefit of all workers -
especially those regarding the minimum wage and safety regulations. This would
remove the incentive for employers to hire undocumented or ''guest'' workers.
There also should be a stepped-up legalization program for people already in
this country, and Border Patrol officers should be trained to be more sensitive
to detainees, to explain their rights to them and to avoid discriminatory
practices against Hispanic people in this country.

DOMINGO GONZALEZ Philadelphia, Feb. 15, 1984

The writer is national representative of the American Friends Service
Committee's Mexico/U.S. Border Program.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              97 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 4, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CHIEF SPONSER MOVES TO RESCUE IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 629 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 3


Senator Alan K. Simpson, chief sponsor of a comprehensive immigration bill,
moved today to rescue the legislation, which Walter F. Mondale and many other
Democrats have been trying to kill. Mr. Simpson called for the appointment of a
House-Senate conference committee to develop a compromise version of the
legislation acceptable to President Reagan and to the Democratic- controlled
House. The Wyoming Republican said Mr. Reagan had given an assurance he would
sign a compromise immigration bill if it were less costly than the one passed by
the House. The White House said last week that the House version was
''unacceptable.'' Despite differences in the House and Senate versions of the
bill, both measuress would prohibit employment of illegal aliens, authorize
penalties against employers who hire illegal aliens and offer legal status to
many illegal aliens already in the United States. The House passed the bill by a
five-vote margin, 216 to 211, on June 20. The Senate approved a similar bill, 76
to 18, in May 1983. The bill has been back in the Senate for six weeks, but the
Senate has not requested a conference, the normal procedure for reconciling
differences on major legislation. Opponents of the bill said that if a
conference committee came up with a compromise measure they had enough votes to
block its approval on the floor of the House. The Democratic candidates for
President and Vice President, Mr. Mondale and Geraldine A. Ferraro, strongly
oppose the measure and have denounced it in speeches. Hispanic groups have also
stepped up efforts to kill the bill. Mr. Simpson said last week that he was
''tumbling around'' in search of a strategy to rescue the bill. He considered
urging the Senate to adopt the House version. But in view of Mr. Reagan's
objections to the House bill, Mr. Simpson has abandoned that idea. Today, the
Senator restated his promise that ''before any version of the legislation
ultimately hammered out in conference is presented to either house of Congress,
it will be placed before the President to determine whether it would receive his
signature.'' Mr. Simpson made the promise last year to allay the concern of
Representative Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the Speaker of the House. Mr. O'Neill had
said he feared Mr. Reagan would veto the bill to curry favor with Hispanic
voters. Vice President Bush revived those fears on July 25 when he said, in a
speech to the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic organization, ''This
President will not sign any legislation that would permit employers to
discriminate against Hispanics or anyone else.'' Hispanic groups contend that
the bill would lead to an increase in job discrimination because employers might
avoid hiring people with dark skin or with foreign accents. But supporters of
the bill say that would not occur. Senator Simpson's decision to pursue a
conference with the House increases pressure for action on the bill, but still
does not guarantee passage, according to Administration officials and
Congresisonal aides who have followed the legislation. An aide to Mr. Simpson
said the Senator decided to seek a conference after talking with Mr. Reagan by
telephone last Sunday. Mr. Simpson made the request in a letter to Senator Strom
Thurmond, Republican of South Carolina, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
The House amendments would offer legal status to a larger number of aliens than
would be covered by the Senate bill. The House version would also authorize 100
percent Federal reimbursement of state and local governments for the costs of
providing cash, medical or other assistance to ''legalized aliens.'' Mr. Simpson
quoted the President as saying that he had a ''deep problem'' with this section
of the House bill because its costs were unknown.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              98 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 13, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL BEFORE CONFEREES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section B; Page 13, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 745 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 12


Seven Senators and 29 Representatives plan to meet Thursday in an effort to
begin drafting a comprehensive immigration bill passed in different forms by the
two houses of Congress.

The first meeting of the conference committee comes 12 weeks after the House
passed the bill, 216 to 211. The Senate approved its version of the legislation
by a vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983.

The Senate and House versions would both prohibit employment of illegal aliens
and offer legal status to many illegal aliens already in the country. They
differ on the penalties for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens and on
the terms of the amnesty, which are more restrictive in the Senate bill.

The Reagan Administration strongly supports the Senate bill, but has described
some of the House amendments as unacceptable. Administration officials contend
that the House version would be too costly because the Federal Government might
have to reimburse states for the costs of providing welfare and social services
to aliens who gained legal status.

Hispanic leaders, who believe that the employer sanctions would increase
discrimination against Hispanic workers, stepped up lobbying against the bill
this week. They met Tuesday with the House majority leader, Representative Jim
Wright, Democrat of Texas, who voted for the bill when it passed on June 20.


'The Prospects Are Bleak'

Mr. Wright said today, ''The prospects are bleak for passage of any immigration
legislation this year.''

Hispanic said Congress could conceivably finish work on the bill before
adjournment.

Following is a summary of major issues facing the conference:

Employer Sanctions: The Senate and House bills would both require employers to
ask all job applicants for documents to verify that they were citizens or aliens
authorized to work in the United States. Both bills contain an exemption for
employers with three or fewer employees.

Under the Senate bill, after a one- year transition period, the Government could
assess a civil penalty of $1,000 against an employer for each illegal alien
hired. If there was a second offense, the employer would be subject to a $2,000
penalty for each illegal alien, and for a ''pattern or practice'' of violations,
the employer could be fined $1,000 and imprisoned six months.

The House bill has no criminal penalties. After a six-month transition period,
an employer would receive a citation or warning for the first offense. For a
second offense, the employer would be subject to a civil penalty of $1,000 for
each illegal alien hired. In any subsequent offense, the employer would be
subject to a civil penalty of $2,000 for each illegal alien hired.

Amnesty: The House bill offers legal status to illegal aliens who entered the
United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here continuously since that
date. The comparable date in the Senate bill is Jan. 1, 1980.

The House bill provides that illegal aliens would first have to become ''lawful
temporary residents.'' After one year, the aliens could seek permanent resident
status if they were studying the English language and the history and government
of the United States.

The Senate bill offers immediate permanent resident status to illegal aliens who
arrived before Jan. 1, 1977. It offers temporary status to those who arrived
from Jan. 1, 1977, to Dec. 31, 1979, and after three years in that status, they
could become permanent residents.

Legalization Costs: The House bill says that the Federal Government ''shall
provide reimbursement to each state'' for 100 percent of the costs of cash and
medical assistance to aliens who gain legal status. Congress could later limit
outlays if it wished. The Senate bill would establish a Federal grant for
assistance to the states, but does not specify the amount.

Foreign Workers: Both bills would make it easier for employers to bring aliens
into the country as temporary foreign workers, tied to a specific place of
employment. The House bill would, in addition, create a special program for
farmers who need help harvesting perishable fruit and vegetables.

Discrimination: The House bill would prohibit employers from discriminating
against legal aliens in hiring or recruiting workers.

The Senate bill has no comparable provisions, but would require the General
Accounting Office to determine whether employer sanctions led to a ''pattern of
discrimination.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              99 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

3 GROUPS SAID TO BE SMUGGLING ALIENS INTO U.S.

BYLINE: By E.R. SHIPP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 25, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 631 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 2


Federal authorities in Chicago and San Diego say they have uncovered three rings
that, working independently of each other, illegally smuggled scores of
Yugoslavs into the United States each month.

The United States Attorney's offices in Chicago and San Diego have obtained
indictments against 26 people charged with organizing and operating the
smuggling rings. Arrests, which began in early April in California, continued
this week with 16 people arrested in Illinois and Arizona.

Apparently the Yugoslavs traveled with legitimate passports and visas to Mexico
City. From there, according to the authorities, they used a variety of routes to
get to the Middle West, New York, New Jersey and even Alaska.

One ring, based in Illinois, transported aliens from Mexico to the Middle West.
A second ring, based in New Jersey, helped Yugoslav Moslems get to the New York
area. A third, based in California, worked with Yugoslav Catholics and helped
them reach the East Coast.

Crossed at Nogales


''At the present time we don't believe that they operated together, but that is
still under investigation,'' said Brian R. Perryman, an Immigration and
Naturalization Service official who is in charge of the anti-smuggling division
here.

He said that the Chicago investigation was begun in March 1983 after agents had
arrested several Yugoslav nationals who had illegally crossed the border at
Nogales, Ariz. He said all were bound for Chicago.

He said the smuggling ring was led by Oloman Selmani, a 53-year-old Yugoslav
native who came to the United States in the 1950's and has since become a
citizen. Mr. Selmani, of Morris, Illinois, apparently arranged passage for
Yugoslav aliens from Mexico to the Middle West. Mr. Perryman said Mr. Selmani
would charge from $3,000 to $5,000 for each person smuggled into the United
States.

45 People Each Month


Federal authorities believe Mr. Selmani was responsible for bringing 45
Yugoslavs a month into the United States and that his operation existed since
1978.

In addition to Mr. Selmani, 16 others, including three Mexican and two
Salvadoran citizens, were charged with conspiracy and illegally transporting
aliens. All except Alfonso Soto-Salazar, who is believed to be in Mexico, were
arrested and arraigned this week. Two Mexican nationals arrested in Arizona are
being held on $250,000 bond. The others, arrested in Illinois, were released on
$4,500 recognizance bonds except Mr. Selmani, who was released on $50,000 bond.

In California, the investigation took shape after a national task force was
created last fall, according to Pamela J. Naughton, an Assistant United States
Attorney in San Diego.

Ring Operating on Coast


In early April, Nuo and Maria Lajci were arrested and charged with operating a
ring from Los Angeles. Miss Naughton said the two charged about $1,800 each to
smuggle people from Mexico to California, where they were flown to Detroit or
New York.

A third ring, she said, was directed by Dragisa Terzioski, a 45-year-old travel
agent from Patterson, N.J. Miss Naughton said that Mr. Terzioski would arrange
for Yugoslavs to pick up round-trip airline tickets for trips between Belgrade
and Mexico City. After their arrival in Mexico, she said, they were transported
across the border and then flown to New York. Miss Naughton said Mr. Terzioski
would then cash in the unused portion of the aliens' round-trip tickets and
would also charge $4,000 per person for his service. Miss Naughton estimated
that he smuggled in 50 persons a month.

Mr. Terzioski was arrested in New Jersey on May 22, she said, and will be flown
to San Diego next week for a hearing. Four others were also arrested and a fifth
man, Richard M. Alarcon, is being sought.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              100 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 31, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

10 ARE CHARGED WITH OPERATING SMUGGLING RING

BYLINE: By ARNOLD H. LUBASCH

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 512 words


Federal charges were announced yesterday in Manhattan against 10 people accused
of participating in a ring that smuggled cocaine and illegal aliens into the
United States.

Seven of the suspects were arrested Saturday, and the three others were being
sought. The case grew out of a one-year investigation by immigration agents who
pretended to be willing to take bribes.

Investigators seized 62 pounds of cocaine, with a street value estimated at $6
million, $80,000 in cash and records concerning the ring's operation, according
to the authorities.

The announcement was made at a news conference by United States Attorney Rudolph
W. Giuliani and the district director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, Charles C. Sava. They said in a statement that ''an interlocking
narcotics and alien-smuggling ring operating in the New York City area had been
cracked.''

Offer to Agents


Steps will be taken to deport more than 60 illegal aliens that the ring brought
into the country from the Dominican Republic, they added. They thanked the
Customs Service and the Drug Enforcement Administration for assisting in the
case.

The case began last year when a suspect who was being investigated by two
immigration agents told the agents they could make a lot of money by helping to
smuggle aliens, according to the prosecutor handling the charges, Steven M.
Kaplan.

With the approval of immigration supervisors, Mr. Kaplan said, the agents agreed
to go along with the arrangement, and the key agent used his official
credentials to escort small groups of aliens past immigration controls at
Kennedy International Airport.

The aliens, all from the Dominican Republic, each paid $2,000 to $3,000 to the
ring, and the supposedly corrupt agent was paid more than $25,000 in bribes, the
authorities said.

Baking Soda Substituted


Last Friday, they said, the agent carried a cardboard package with 62 pounds of
cocaine past customs at Kennedy after the package had arrived as baggage on a
flight from Colombia. The agent was supposed to deliver the cocaine to the ring
the next day, they continued, but the authorities opened the package, replaced
the cocaine with baking soda and arrested the suspects after the agent delivered
the package Saturday.

The main suspect was identified as Dulce Llavarias, 35 years old, of Queens,
operator of San Juan Travel Inc., a Manhattan travel agency. Her lawyer, Harry
C. Batchelder Jr., denied the charges.

Among the suspects were her sisters, Cecilia Ramirez, 38, of Manhattan, and
Diana Ramirez, 32, described as an illegal alien from the Dominican Republic.

Four other suspects were also arrested. They were Jose Curet, 41, of Manhattan;
Jose Anibal Henriquez, 27, of the Dominican Republic; Louis Carlos Ortiz, 25, of
Colombia, and Maria Vila Guzman, 23, of Manhattan.

The three missing suspects are Carlos Moncada Rendon, 23, of Queens; Justino
Santos, 36, of Manhattan, and Aristedes Burgos, 34, of Montreal.

The arrested suspects were arraigned in Federal District Court in Manhattan.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rudolph Giuliani, Charles Sava and John Luksio

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              101 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 15, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

16 INDICTED BY U.S. IN BID TO END CHURCH SMUGGLING OF LATIN ALIENS

BYLINE: By STUART TAYLOR Jr., Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 872 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14


The Justice Department announced 16 indictments and more than 60 arrests today
in a crackdown on church groups accused of smuggling illegal aliens from Central
America.

The indictments were based in part on evidence gathered by four undercover
agents who, wearing concealed tape recorders, attended church meetings in
Tucson, Ariz., about helping people flee from El Salvador and Guatemala to the
United States.



Aim of Sanctuary Drive

Some of those indicted said today that they had helped refugees enter and hide
in the United States as part of a national movement to provide sanctuary to
people who face persecution and death squads in El Salvador and Guatemala.

They said their actions had been necessary and legal because of what they called
the Reagan Administration's illegal refusal to grant political asylum to the
majority of Central American refugees. The Adminstration contends that most
asylum applicants from Central America are fleeing poverty, not persecution.

The indictments of 16 people, including a Protestant minister, two Roman
Catholic priests and three nuns, were secretly returned Thursday by a Federal
grand jury in Phoenix.

They were announced today by Federal prosecutors in Phoenix and confirmed by the
Immigration and Naturalization Service in Washington, which is part of the
Justice Department.

In addition, more than 60 aliens who had been named by the grand jury as
unindicted co-conspirators were arrested over the weekend and today in Phoenix,
Tucson, Seattle, Philadelphia, Rochester and other cities, according to Don
Reno, a special assistant United States Attorney in Phoenix. He is chief
prosecutor in the case.

In New York state, two Salvadoran refugees were arrested today after leaving the
Downtown United Presbyterian Church in Rochester on their way to a language
class. One, Alejandro Rodriguez, was released later in the day after
parishioners paid $3,000 bail. The other, his wife, Leticia, was released on
personal recognizance.

About 10 churches in New York and New Jersey, including Riverside Church in
Manhattan, have given sanctuary to Central American aliens. Church spokesmen
said today that their parishes were meeting to decide what measures to take to
protect the aliens from arrest.

''We were in the process of settling them in the community, but now we have
changed our mind,'' Kate Skelton- Caban, a member of a sanctuary committee for
four churches in Albany and Syracuse, said of three Salvadorans the churches
have sheltered since last September.

The indictments represent the Government's toughest move so far to counter a
national movement of dozens of church groups and other activists who have
provided sanctuary, in many cases openly, to people fleeing Central America.

The indictments were approved in Washington by Alan C. Nelson, head of the
immigration service, and Associate Attorney General D. Lowell Jensen, according
to Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the service.

Mr. Reno said ''approximately 100'' tapes made by two ''confidential
informants'' and two undercover immigration agents had been filed in Federal
District Court in Phoenix. The undercover operatives ''were invited to come to
meetings that were held at Southside Presbyterian Church,'' he said, and used
concealed tape-recorders to gather evidence there.

In a press conference in Tucson today, the Rev. John M. Fife of the Tucson
Southside United Presbyterian Church, who is one of the defendants, said, ''We
will continue to assert the church's right to administer sanctuary to helpless
people whose lives hang in the balance every day.''

Mr. Fife denounced the Administration's ''defiance of international standards''
on treatment of refugees, its ''illegal activities in Nicaragua'' and its
undercover techniques.

''The Government has planted body bugs on its agents and has infiltrated the
church from within,'' he said. ''We expect that to happen in Russia, Eastern
Europe and in totalitarian countries.''

Mr. Fife, in March 1982, was the first clergymen in the United States to declare
his church a sanctuary for refugees from Central America. Most have entered
through Mexico. Almost 200 churches around the country have followed suit, he
said today.

Mr. Reno said those indicted had been issued summonses to appear Jan. 23 before
a Federal magistrate, and had not been arrested.

The following people, in addition to Mr. Fife, were among the 16 charged in the
71-count indictment, according to a Justice Department press release:

James A. Corbett, a retired rancher in Tucson, and Philip M. Conger, director of
the Tucson Ecumenical Council Task Force on Central American Activity, who were
identified by Mr. Reno as leaders of the alleged conspiracy; Antonio Clark, a
Catholic priest at the Sacred Heart Church in Nogales, Ariz.; Ramon Dagoberto
Quinones, a Catholic priest and Mexican citizen from Nogales, Sonora, Mexico;
Darlene Nicgorski of Phoenix, a member of the School Sisters of St. Francis in
Milwaukee; Ana Priester and Mary Waddell of Phoenix, members of the Sisters of
Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and Mary Kay Espinosa of Nogales, Ariz.,
secretary of the Association of Educational Reform of Sacred Heart Church.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Rev. John Fife (page A12)

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              102 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                October 7, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LOUISIANIANS WAIT FOR ALIEN CENTER



BYLINE:
By FRANCES FRANK MARCUS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 28, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 891 words

DATELINE: OAKDALE, La.


North of Louisiana's depressed oil patch and west of its struggling World's
Fair, not far from Mamou and well south of Shreveport, in the state's flat dusty
center, the small city of Oakdale is coping with euphoria.

Down a bumpy dirt road at Oakdale's edge, near where Cajun country ends, workers
are preparing the silty soil, known locally as crawfish clay, for the largest
alien detention center in the country. It would be the first to be built and run
jointly by the Federal Bureau of Prisons and the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

If construction goes as scheduled and opposition outside Oakdale fades, the
aliens will begin arriving in Allen Parish in little more than a year, 1,000 to
be housed in secure dormitories and up to 5,000 more in a tent city on the
grounds should the need arise.

It cannot happen soon enough for Oakdale.

They Fought for Opportunity

While other communities have balked at taking in society's rejects, Oakdale
fought hard for the privilege.

''The alien center is the economic rebirth of Allen Parish and Oakdale,'' said
Mayor George B. Mowad, a family physician, on a tour of the city for the benefit
of a visitor. ''With all the jobs it's going to create and the spinoff, it's
going to turn this place around.''

In recent years, Oakdale's unemployment rate has edged above 31 percent because
its timber-based economy has been in a depression. More than 1,000 jobs have
been lost since 1975, with the closing of a papermill, a bag plant and a
furniture parts factory.

The new $17.5 million alien detention center will create 325 full-time jobs,
with 75 percent to be filled locally. There will be security guards, cooks,
janitors, eight immigration judges, 16 trial lawyers and others to take care of
the thousands of aliens to be housed annually, part of the influx of aliens who
cross this country's borders illegally and are caught. Two million were detained
last year.

'Recession-Proof Industry'

The new alien center ''will bring in 150 families to Oakdale, which means we're
going to have the biggest house- building boom in the history of this town,''
the Mayor said, ''and with that many people it means new excitement, new ideas.
We have a recession-proof industry here now, the alien center.''

Undaunted by a lawsuit failed in July by the American Civil Liberties Union and
the Lawyers Committee for International Rights opposing the center's placement
in Oakdale, citizens of the town, population 7,000, have been ringing the phones
at the Mayor's home and office, seeking jobs.

The A.C.L.U. and the lawyers' committee have sued the Government to stop
construction of the detention center, charging that its ''remote'' location
would deprive the aliens of legal representation.

The plaintiffs include aliens from Afghanistan, Iran and Central America, 16
lawyers and representatives of 12 legal aid groups from around alien centers in
Florida, California, Texas, Arizona and New York.

The lawsuit says there are only 12 lawyers practicing in Oakdale and that there
are no legal groups organized to offer free legal services.

The Federal Government has not yet responded to the suit but Oakdale has, with
the same verve it employed in persuading Federal officials to put the center in
the middle of Louisiana, 200 miles west of New Orleans, about the same distance
from Houston and near no major airports.

Other Lawyers Around, He Says

There are actually more than 700 lawyers within 50 miles of Oakdale, says James
Sandefur, an optometrist who is chairman of the local industrial development
board.

And as far as the lawsuit's outcome goes, he said, ''the smart money ought to be
on the little guys in Oakdale.''

Town leaders say it was ''perseverence, perseverence, perseverence'' that got
the alien center here.

Influential citizens met with ministers, who made their pitch for the aliens
from the pulpit. An intensive media campaign led by Pat R. Jones, editor of The
Oakdale Journal, did not hurt.

And when two Immigration and Naturalization Service officials turned up in town
to test the terrain, recalls Mrs. Jones, more than 800 townspeople turned up at
a public meeting ''with nothing on their faces but hope.''

'Dinners for 20, 30 and 40'

Louisiana's Congressional delegation pitched in. There were hundreds of
telegrams to Washington, thousands of dollars in phone calls and two all-night
community prayer vigils, not to mention what the Mayor calls ''the little
personal touch, dinners for 20, 30 and 40'' at his house. These honored Federal
officials and were prepared the Mayor's wife, Dolores. ''We fed them
shishkabob,'' the Mayor recalls. ''We killed them with kindness.''

In New Orleans, the immigration service's district director, David Lambert, said
Oakdale had been chosen in part because ''they wanted us and that's a big
factor.''

''Why should the Government come in and impose something on a community they
don't want?'' he asked.

Most of Oakdale's aliens will stay only three or four days, he said, while
arrangements are made for their return home and those seeking asylum will be
processed in ''about a month.''

The Mayor says: ''We're not resting on our laurels with just the alien center.
We're trying to get a state prison for the south end of the parish.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              103 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 11, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

The Calendar

BYLINE: By Marjorie Hunter

SECTION: Section B; Page 6, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 687 words


Monday

President Reagan, back from a 10- day trip to Europe, is expected to have a
light public schedule this week. But both houses of Congress will be busy, with
the House beginning debate on an immigration reform bill and the Senate
continuing debate on a Defense Department money bill.

Stock Exchange: The American Stock Exchange will hold a two-day conference with
Treasury Secretary Donald T. Regan, Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger,
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige, William J. Casey, Director of Central
Intelligence, and David A. Stockman, budget director, among the speakers. 8:45
A.M., State Department.

Democratic Rules: The Democratic Platform Committee will begin its final
hearings before fashioning the party's 1984 platform. Today's witnesses will
include Senator Gary Hart and the Rev. Jesse Jackson. 9:45 A.M., Shoreham Hotel.
Immigration Protest: Fifteen organizations, including various Hispanic groups
and the United Farm Workers, will outline their opposition to the pending
immigration legislation. 9:30 A.M., Room 2237 Rayburn.

Toxic Wastes: The National Campaign Against Toxic Hazards will identify 15 toxic
waste sites that could qualify for Federal cleanup money. 1 P.M., Room 2322
Rayburn.

Public Policy: Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, will
address the opening session of a National Association of Manufacturers' forum on
public policy. 6 P.M., Capital Hilton.

Tuesday

The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights will observe the 20th anniversary of
the signing of the 1964 Civil Rights Act with a dinner honoring former Senator
Jacob K. Javits of New York and the late Lyndon B. Johnson, Clarence M. Mitchell
Jr. and Roy Wilkins. The Hubert H. Humphrey award will be presented to a
Washington lawyer, Joseph Rauh. 6:30 P.M., Capital Hilton.

Aging Exhibit: The National Center on the Aging will hold a Congressional
reception marking the opening of a new exhibit, ''What About Aging? Your
Changing Senses.'' 5:30 P.M., 600 Maryland Avenue S.W.

National Security: The National Committee for National Security will sponsor a
women's leadership conference on the economics of national security. 8 A.M.,
George Washington University's Marvin Center.

Festival: The Library of Congress will open the first in a series of summer
chamber programs featuring 14 young musicians from six countries. 8 P.M.,
Coolidge Auditorium.

Wednesday

This is Harmon Killebrew Day, by resolution of Congress, and the man who will be
inducted this year into the Baseball Hall of Fame will be in the city for a
series of events to raise money for the National Kidney Foundation. His day will
begin with a 10 A.M. news conference at the Hyatt Regency on Capitol Hill.

Drinking Age: Several members of Congress will join in a rally, sponsored by
Save Our Students and Mothers Against Drunk Drivers, in support of House-passed
legislation designed to persuade states to set 21 as the minimum drinking age.
10 A.M., East Front Steps, the Capitol.

Bank Business: The Federal Reserve Board chairman, Paul Volcker, and the
chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, William M. Isaac, will be
among witnesses at a hearing, by a House banking subcommittee, on Federal
assistance to the Continental Illinois Bank. 10 A.M., Room 2128 Rayburn.

Thursday

Secretary of Energy Donald P. Hodel will discuss the Reagan Administration's
energy policies. 12:30 P.M., National Press Club.

Economic Future: Ten major environmental groups will release a report on
''America's Economic Future.'' 9 A.M., 1701 18th Street N.W.

Doctor's Bills: Results will be released from a survey of American physicians on
their attitudes toward rising costs of health care. 12:15 P.M., Room 106
Dirksen.

Pay Equity: Experts will examine the question of pay equity on campus at an
opening session of the annual meeting of the American Association of University
Professors. 10:30 A.M., Capitol Holiday Inn.

Friday

Carl Rowan, the syndicated columnist and television commentator, will discuss
news coverage of this year's Presidential election campaigns. 6:45 P.M.,
National Press Club.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: Schedule

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              104 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESS FACING MAJOR WORKLOAD ON RETURN TODAY

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1283 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 22


Congress will reconvene Monday for a three- week session between the Democratic
and the Republican national conventions facing an array of unfinished business,
including an overhaul of the immigration laws and military aid to Central
America.

Before it recessed for the Democratic convention, Congress achieved an
unexpected degree of bipartisanship on major legislative initiatives. The
question now is whether bipartisan compromises will continue or whether the
political pressures of an election year will make further legislative progress
this year impossible.

There is little optimism that the immigration and the military budget measures
leading the work list can be completed before the recess for the Republican
National Convention. Congress will return after Labor Day and is scheduled to
adjourn Oct. 4 to let its members campaign for re-election.



Keeping Government Running


Nor is Congress expected to complete work on all the 13 appropriations bills
needed to fund the Federal Government in the fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. Only
three such bills have thus far been passed.

To keep the Government running in the new fiscal year, Congress would have to
approve all 13 bills or pass a continuing resolution for spending that would
cover the agencies for which appropriations bills were not approved.

A dispute on military spending has deadlocked two measures in House- Senate
conferences, and there is little expectation of a speedy resolution. The issue
has resulted in stalemates involving both the budget resolution setting the
ceiling on spending and military authorization setting spending policy for the
new fiscal year.



Impasse on Military Ceiling


In its 1985 budget resolution, the Senate approved $299 billion in military
spending for the fiscal year 1985, for a 7.8 percent increase after taking
account of inflation. But the House approved only $285.7 billion, a 3.5 percent
increase.

The Senate Republicans rejected an offer by House Democrats that would provide
nearly $292.5 billion in military spending, for a 5 percent increase in real
growth.

Because of the impasse over military spending, the Defense Department
appropriation may have to be part of the continuing resolution.

Both the House and Senate reduced President Reagan's request for 40 MX missiles.
The Senate reduced the number to 21 and the House to 15 with conditions, and
this difference also would have to be resolved to end the stalemates.

A House-Senate conference will also seek to resolve differences in a bill that
would make sweeping changes in the nation's immigration laws. The measure
narrowly passed the House and is strongly opposed by Hispanic Americans, many
liberals and the Democrats' national standard-bearers, Walter F. Mondale and
Representative Geraldine A. Ferraro. She is to return to Washington Tuesday
after spending a day in her Queens office.  With the variety and strength of
views on the immigration measure, negotiations are expected to be
extraordinarily delicate.

Both the Senate and House measures would penalize employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens. But the Senate bill would provide criminal as well as civil
penalties, while the House bill would impose only civil fines.

Another dispute involves a House provision for a program that could bring
several hundred thousand foreign workers into the United States annually to
harvest perishable crops. The Senate bill does not include this provision, which
is strongly opposed by many liberal and moderate lawmakers.

Renewed Bid for Aid to Rebels


The Administration is planning a renewed effort to have Congress approve $21
million in additional aid for Nicaraguan rebels. The $24 million appropriated
earlier this year has nearly been exhausted, and Congress has opposed providing
more support. Congressional Democrats vigorously opposed additional aid for the
Nicaraguan rebels and were joined in the Senate by moderate Republicans who
agreed to kill the proposal.

The Administration also has requested an additional $117 million in military aid
for El Salvador in the current fiscal year, and $132.5 million for 1985. In a
bipartisan consensus after the election of Jose Napoleon Duarte, a moderate, as
President of El Salvador, Congressional Democrats joined Republicans in
supporting an Administration request for an addition $61.7 million this year.
The question is whether Democrats will continue to support additional military
aid to the Salvadoran Government.

The lawmakers also are expected to consider another increase in the debt
ceiling. On June 29, Congress increased the Government's authority to borrow
money from $1,520 billion to $1,573 billion. But the new debt ceiling provides
only enough Government borrowing authority to last through August.

The debt ceiling issue poses political problems for Senate Republicans who
promised in election campaigns not to vote to raise the debt ceiling but who are
repeatedly persuaded to do so by their party leaders, at the behest of the White
House. In Iowa, for example, Democrats have accused Senator Roger W. Jepsen, a
Republican seeking re-election, of repeatedly breaking his 1978 campaign pledge
not to vote to increase the debt ceiling.

Religious Groups' Access


The House and Senate also disagree on whether religious groups should have the
same right to use public schools as other extracurricular organizations. The
Senate attached to a bill increasing funds for the study of mathematics and
science a provision that would negate the effect of Federal court decisions and
assure such ''equal access.''

House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., who opposes this provision, ruled that it
was not germane to the math- science bill, which he sent to both the Judiciary
Committee and the Education and Labor Committee.

Representative Don Edwards, the California Democrat who is chairman of the
Judiciary subcommittee with jurisdiction over the bill, says he will seek to
kill the equal access provision. But Representative Carl D. Perkins, the
Kentucky Democrat who is chairman of the Education and Labor Committee, supports
it and has vowed to bring it to the House floor on Wednesday.

10 Appropriations Bills Pending


The two chambers also will work on a separate military appropriations bill, in
addition to the budget and military authorization. The military appropriations
bill is one of 10 appropriations bills that will be before the lawmakers.

The others deal with agriculture; commerce; the District of Columbia; foreign
aid; the Interior Department; the departments of Labor, Health and Human
Services, and Education; military construction; transportation, and the Treasury
and Postal Service. The three spending bills already enacted deal with energy
and water development; housing and urban development, and the legislative
branch.

In addition, House and Senate leaders have their own agendas. House leaders plan
floor action on a bill renewing the Federal program to clean up hazardous waste
dumps, a measure imposing sanctions against countries that engage in unfair
trading practices, an authorization for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting,
an intelligence authorization bill, and a measure increasing food aid, ocean
dumping legislation.

Senate leaders, meanwhile, plan to bring to the floor a highway construction
bill; a bill that would allow banks to offer a full line of real estate,
insurance and securities services; and a civil rights measure, passed by the
House, that is intended to strengthen the enforcement powers of the Civil Rights
Act in light of a recent Supreme Court decision involving Grove City College.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              105 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 9, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE PANEL BACKS BILL ON IMMGIRATION FOR ACTION MONDAY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 301 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 8


The House Rules Committee today cleared the way for the House to take up a
comprehensive immigration bill Monday, but it set no time limits for debate on
the measure, which has been politically vexatious for both parties for more than
two years.

By a unanimous voice vote, the committee approved a resolution authorizing
debate on the bill, which is designed to curtail illegal immigration to the
United States.

The resolution, or rule, would allow House members to offer 69 amendments to the
complex piece of legislation. The rule fixes no time for a final vote on passage
of the bill, so House members said there was much uncertainty about the outcome.
In theory, under the rule each member of the House could speak for five minutes
on each amendment.

The bill would authorize fines and prison terms for employers who knowingly
hired illegal aliens. It would also offer legal status to many illegal aliens
already in the country. Once cited for a violation, an employer would have to
ask all job applicants for documents to confirm that they were either citizens
or aliens authorized to work in this country.

The Reagan Administration strongly supports the immigration measure.  The Senate
approved a generally similar bill by a vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983.

Hispanic organizations and civil liberties groups have stepped up lobbying
against the bill. They contend the employer sanctions would increase the
likelihood of discrimination against Hispanic workers. Supporters of the bill
say it contains many safeguards to prevent discrimination.

The rule sets the terms of debate. If the House approved the rule by a majority
vote, it will set the stage for a wide-ranging, debate on immigration policy. If
the House defeats the rule, there would probably be no further action on the
bill.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              106 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 18, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS BILL NEARS REALITY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1074 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 17


Why, after so much delay, did a comprehensive immigration bill suddenly start
rolling through the House of Representatives?

The very factors that delayed the legislation for several years now seem to be
working in its favor. After five straight days of solid progress, the House
resumes consideration of the bill Tuesday, facing the politically difficult
question of whether to grant legal status to illegal aliens already in the
United States. A final vote on passage of the bill could come late Tuesday or
Wednesday.

The bill always had concentrated opposition and diffused support. The
concentrated opposition, from Hispanic leaders in particular, kept the measure
off the House floor for a year, but the diffused support proved more significant
when the full House started voting.

Every so often the House, as an institution, rises to a large challenge. ''A
failure to deal with this issue could be fatal to our ability to deal with other
issues of wide, sweeping social and economic impact,'' said Representative
Robert W. Kastenmeier, Democrat of Wisconsin. ''Institutionally, it's important
that we be able to report out a bill.''

Election-year politics, which had been expected to obstruct the bill, seemed
instead to increase the momentum behind it. House members said they did not want
to go back home having done nothing about illegal immigration, even though many
were unsure whether this specific bill was the right answer to the problem. To a
remarkable degree, House Republicans were united in favor of the bill, which is
strongly supported by the Reagan Administration, and Democrats fought among
themselves over various amendments.



No Unity for Democrats


The three Democratic candidates for President have all spoken against the bill,
but they did not unify the party behind their position.

The Congressional Hispanic Caucus fought tenaciously, but proved weaker than
expected. Representative Bill Richardson, a New Mexico Democrat whose mother was
born in Mexico, said: ''We as the Hispanic Caucus failed to come up with a
realistic alternative that could pass. We were not well organized. We did not
educate members.''

The bill authorizes the Government to fine employers up to $2,000 for each
illegal alien they hire. Hispanic groups asserted that this would lead to an
increase in discrimination because employers would avoid hiring people with a
foreign accent or dark skin. But the bipartisan coalition that usually supports
civil rights legislation was divided, and many of its members were able to
support the immigration bill with a clear conscience after adding legal remedies
for victims of discrimination.

Curbs on Legal Immigration


Restrictionist sentiment, a desire to restrict legal as well as illegal
immigration, proved stronger than expected. Representative Hal Daub, Republican
of Nebraska, said that ''no reasonable person'' wanted to stop immigration
entirely, but that it must be limited. ''The demographics and costs of
immigration are staggering,'' he said, and there is a ''growing resentment of
immigrants and immigration.''

Florida Republicans such as Representative Bill McCollum testified to the strain
that illegal immigration could put on a community. Haitians apprehended in a
boat off the Florida coast should not have any more legal rights than a stowaway
or a foreign crewman who jumps ship, he said.

Representative E. (Kika) de la Garza, a Texas Democrat, complained at one point:
''The basic intent of this legislation is not reform. It is a pervasive attempt
by someone to keep foreigners out.''

Those who want to retain the current policy encouraging legal immigration
prevailed over those who wanted to impose numerical limits, but the outcome was
in doubt for a while.

On key issues, the bill's chief sponsor, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, positioned himself on what he said was a ''middle
ground.'' Organized labor, like the House Committee on Education and Labor,
wanted new safeguards to protect American farm workers and aliens brought into
the country to harvest seasonal crops. Farmers, like the Agriculture Committee,
wanted a new program to bring in aliens as temporary farm workers.

'Killer Amendments'


Usually this strategy worked; occasionally it failed. But Mr. Mazzoli persuaded
the House to defeat all the ''killer amendments,'' those that, in his view,
would have fatally undermined the bill.

Mr. Mazzoli had always said he had a clear majority in support of his position
on any major amendment and that the only question was whether House leaders
would give the House an opportunity to vote. The events of last week suggest
that he was right.

''Some thought the House would dissolve into rancor, bitterness and discord, but
that has not happened,'' Mr. Mazzoli said. 'The issue is not as nettlesome and
full of land mines as we were told by the opposition.''

The most powerful opponents of the bill in 1982, the growers who use illegal
aliens to pick fruit and vegetables, changed their strategy this year and,
instead of fighting the bill, successfully sought amendments.

With the help of a well-financed lobbying campaign, they persuaded the House to
create a special foreign worker program for producers of perishable crops. The
debate over the proposal highlighted the split in Democratic ranks: Leon E.
Panetta of California was the chief proponent; George Miller, also from
California, was the chief opponent.

Leeway for Agriculture


The House bill, like its Senate counterpart, would create a three-year
transition program for agricultural labor, giving farmers three years more than
other industries to halt the use of illegal aliens. And the House, by a vote of
285 to 133, upheld a section of the bill that would prevent immigration officers
from entering a farm or field except with the owner's consent or a search
warrant. The Senate bill contains a similar provision, so it is likely to remain
in the legislation.

For most of the 435 House members, immigration is a back-burner issue to which
they usually pay little attention. But it is also a subject about which they
feel strongly because it is intertwined with the history of America and its
ideals, as well as its future. ''What we are deciding here is the future of the
ethnic fabric of our nation,'' said Representative Robert Garcia, Democrat of
the Bronx.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: ANALYSIS

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              107 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 20, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE BACKS PLAN LEGALIZING ALIENS IN U.S. BEFORE 1982

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1403 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19


The House of Representatives today tentatively approved a proposal that would
offer legal status to illegal aliens who have lived continuously in the United
States since Jan. 1, 1982.

The proposal was offered by Representative Jim Wright, Democrat of Texas, the
majority leader, as an amendment to a comprehensive immigration bill. The
proposal was approved this evening, 247 to 170.

Mr. Wright's proposal would permit illegal aliens to obtain legal status as
''temporary residents'' if they have lived here continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.



Permanent Status in Two Years


After two years, the temporary residents could become permanent residents if
they could demonstrate that they had achieved, or were pursuing studies to
achieve, a ''minimal understanding of ordinary English and a knowledge and
understanding of the history and government of the United States.''

After five years as permanent residents, aliens may apply for United States
citizenship.  One hundred nineteen Republicans and 128 Democrats voted for Mr.
Wright's amendment. Thirty-nine Republicans and 131 Democrats voted against it.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the
House bill, said: ''A bill without legalization is no bill at all. Without
legalization of some kind, the bill is not balanced.''



'The Precious Gift'

The bill does not specify how an alien would prove he had lived in the United
States for a specified period of time. But supporters of the bill said aliens
could offer rent receipts, paycheck stubs or other such documents that would
indicate they had been residing in the country. Critics of the amnesty said,
however, that such records could be obtained by fraud.

Mr. Wright said the English language requirement and other criteria in his
proposal would ''dignify the precious gift'' of permanent resident status.

''The applicant must demonstrate that he is employable, that he is not a felon
and that he is attempting to learn rudimentary English, so he or she can fully
participate in what our country ahs to offer,'' Mr. Wright said. ''I don't
believe we must homogenize America. I don't believe you have to obliterate the
cultural differences that give color to the rich fabric of American life. But I
don't think we want to create a temptation to balkanize American life. Language
is the thread, the common thread, that ties us all together.'' Today's vote was
tentative because the House is to have an opportunity to vote Wednesday on a
proposal eliminating all provisions of the bill that would offer legal status,
or amnesty, to illegal aliens. The eligibility criteria in Mr. Wright's
amendment were more stringent than those in the original bill approved by the
House Judiciary Committee, which would have given permanent resident status to
illegal aliens living here continuously since Jan. 1, 1982.On Mr. Wright's
amnesty amendment, 10 New York Representatives voted aye and 23 voted no. The
New Jersey delegation was split, with seven members supporting the amendment and
five opposing it. In the Connecticut delegation, two members voted for the
amendment and three against it.

By a vote of 245 to 181, the House today rejected a proposal that would have
moved the eligibility date to Jan. 1, 1980, the date specified in a bill passed
overwhelmingly by the Senate last year.

The amendment was proposed by Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of
California, and was supported by the Reagan Administration. Mr. Lungren
acknowledged that his proposal was less ''generous'' than the bill in its
treatment of illegal aliens.

Today's debate on amnesty indicated that it was, in the words of Representative
Kent Hance, Democrat of Texas, an ''explosive issue.'' Mr. Hance made a strong
but unsuccessful bid for his party's Senate nomination in Texas on the basis of
his opposition to the proposed amnesty.

Called a 'Jobs Issue'


Mr. Hance described amnesty as a ''jobs issue,'' and he warned that illegal
aliens who gained legal status would take jobs from American workers. ''If you
grant amnesty,'' he said, ''you are going to legalize the theft of American
jobs.''

He recalled the words of a constituent who told him, ''If undocumented workers
were taking jobs away from lawyers, bankers, doctors and Congressmen, it would
have been stopped a long time ago, and you wouldn't be granting amnesty.''

Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, said the amnesty was an
essential corollary to another provision that would prohibit employers from
hiring illegal aliens. Without the amnesty, he said, the nation would have ''a
large class of potentially desperate people'' in its midst. He said aliens would
be here illegally, but could not work and could not support themselves, and many
probably could not be deported, because they would be so numerous.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and chairman of the
Judiciary Committee, defended the amnesty. He opposed the restrictions in the
Lungren amendment, saying they would consign many aliens to a state of ''legal
limbo.''

Like many Hispanic members of the House, Representative Robert Garcia. Democrat
of the Bronx, opposes the overall bill. But he supported the amnesty, saying:
''We are going to try to bring people out of the shadows. We are going to try to
give them dignity.''

Amnesty Criticized

Representative Bill McCollum, Republican of Florida, who supports the bill,
urged his colleagues to eliminate all amnesty provisions.

The amnesty, he said, would be ''a reward for lawbreakers,'' would burden
taxpayers with the expense of providing services for legalized aliens, and would
encourage aliens to come to the United States illegally in the hope of
qualifying for another amnesty in the future.

Moreover, he said: ''I think legalization is a slap in the face to millions who
have stood in line for years in foreign countries waiting to come to the United
States legally.''

House members said they had no reliable estimate of how many illegal aliens were
living in the United States or might qualify for legal status under the bill.
Some Federal officials have said they expected no more than two million to apply
for the amnesty. House supporters of an amnesty program, citing the experience
of other countries, predicted that many of the eligible aliens would not apply.

Representative Bill Richardson, Democrat of New Mexico, said, ''Only 60 percent
of the eligible aliens will actually seek to be legalized.'' They account for
only 20 to 30 percent of all illegal aliens, he said.

The Lungren amendment, like the Senate bill, would have established a two-tier
legalization program. Illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan.
1, 1977, could have become legal permanent residents. Illegal aliens who arrived
from Jan. 1, 1977, to Dec. 31, 1979, could have gained legal status as
''temporary residents.'' After three years, they could have become permanent
residents.

After rejecting the Lungren amendment, the House then rejected, 246 to 177,
another amendment that would have offered legal permanent resident status to
illegal aliens who have lived continuously in the United States since Jan. 1,
1980. The second amendment was offered by Representative E. Clay Shaw Jr.,
Republican of Florida.

Biggest Change in 32 Years


The House has been working on the immigration bill for more than 43 hours over
six days. It would make the most significant changes in immigration law in 32
years. Supporters of the bill say it would help the nation regain control of its
borders; opponents deny that it would achieve that goal.

The legislation rests upon a precarious compromise that does not entirely
satisfy many lawmakers. The American Federation of Labor and Congress of
Industrial Organizations, the United Farm Workers of America, the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States, the American Civil Liberties Union and major
Hispanic organizations all oppose the bill in its present form. Mr. Mazzoli said
facetiously that the opposition of organized labor and the Chamber of Commerce
indicated the bill was ''an excellent piece of draftsmanship.''

The Senate bill was sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming,
who had worked closely with Mr. Mazzoli to devise legislation acceptable to both
houses of Congress.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Representative Romano L. Mazzoli before immigration vote;
photo of Representative Mazzoli with staff members (Page A22)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              108 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE, LAW WILL AFFECT LIVES OF MILLIONS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 2326 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, June 20


Twenty-nine- year-old Maria H. and her 27-year-old husband, a laborer in a plant
nursery, have been in the United States for four years, and they have four
children.

Two of the children were born here and are thus American citizens. The other two
were born in Mexico, before the couple came here on a temporary visa. It has
expired, so they, and the two Mexican-born children, are undocumented aliens,
or, in the common parlance, ''illegals.'' The youngest child, a citizen, is
perilously ill and the family is seeking further help for her even though that
exposes the family to deportation.

There are estimated to be 400,000 like Maria H.'s family in the Houston area,
and most of them go about their daily lives much as everyone else, but in
constant fear of discovery and deportation. There are probably six million such
immigrants in the United States trying to cope with these problems, which have
evolved as a result of years of virtually uncontrolled illegal immigration.



Bill Focuses on Them


The problems of such immigrants and the response of government at all levels
have been the focus of the immigration reform bill as it has gone through
Congress.  Both critics and backers of the various forms of the bill, even as
the House voted today on its version, ask how much it will cost, whom it will
affect and ultimately whether it can be enforced. The bill, designed over four
administrations to impose some order on what President Reagan has termed a
chaotic situation, will have wide and varying effects on the immigrant millions.
There will also be an impact on United States taxpayers, on the employed and the
unemployed.  Organized labor has withdrawn its support because of the bill's
greatly expanded program to provide immigrant farm laborers; Hispanic leaders
condemn the program as ''slave labor''; there is substantial disagreement over
the cutoff date for granting amnesty. Doubts on enforcement arise because bogus
documentation is easily available; liberals and conservatives are loath to
establish ''a national identity card,'' with its overtones of a police state.

A different version of the immigration bill passed the Senate last year, and
some important differences must be reconciled before a bill can go to the
President.

Maria H. and her family illustrate one question. They came here four years ago,
in 1980, but after January of that year. In the Senate version of the bill, they
would not be eligible for amnesty and would be forced to leave this country or
remain illegal.

The House version, however, establishes January 1982 as the anmesty date. Under
that version, the family would be eligible to apply for resident status, and
because they have been here continuously, with the worker employed at the same
job the entire time, their chances of winning resident status are good.

But the House version provides that even those granted amnesty will not be
eligible for Government cash benefit programs, which Maria H.'s family needs for
the infant.

While the immigration bill will clear the shadow of deportation for millions
already in this country, it will create other problems.

Illegal aliens have formed a constantly rising tide for a decade, with captures
on the United States side of the border last year alone reaching over a million.


Wide Arc of Estimates


Estimates of the number of illegal aliens living here vary from 3 million to 12
million. But most authorities consider 6 million a working figure. The
immigrants come from scores of countries, the ''boat people'' from Haiti,
stowaways fleeing Poland, Asians who come on visas and stay on when they expire.

Most ''illegals'' are Hispanic, and more than half of all illegal immigrants are
Mexican, according to Government statistics. Some, like the Guatemalans and
Salvadorans - some estimates say 50,000 to 100,000 are in Houston alone - come
fleeing gunfire. Others, like the thousands who, unimpeded, cross the border
from Mexico every day, come seeking a better life than can be achieved in a
country with a shattered currency, staggering unemployment and wages at best of
a dollar a day.

The majority of those simply wade across the narrow Rio Grande, or slip
unnoticed through remote areas of the desert, often in daylight.

At popular crossing spots such as El Paso, strong men do a brisk business
carrying people across the shallow river. Others, particularly those hoping to
get to Houston, Denver, Los Angeles or Chicago, will hire a professional
smuggler, a ''coyote.''

Until exposure 18 months ago, companies in Texas, Florida, Illinois and Oklahoma
routinely placed orders with a Mexican-born agent who, sometimes under guard,
procured as many as 5,000 illegal workers a year at prices of $350 to $730 each
for work at low wages.

Many Do Not Remain


By no means all of those who cross the border illegally come to stay. The United
States Border Patrol, the chief enforcement arm of the Immigration Service, has
observed that tens of thousands come to work for a day or a week and return to
their homes on the other side.

One middle-aged Mexican who gave her name as Laguna Secorra, interviewed just
before she was carried across the Rio Grande at El Paso a few months ago,
acknowledged that she had crossed the river twice a day, five days a week, for
15 years, to work as a maid for a woman in El Paso.

Unless she is ultimately caught in the tighter net that the Border Patrol will
spread after the new law goes into effect, a prospect even the border guards
concede is not certain, the law will have little or no effect on her.

She has crossed successfully for years in daylight at El Paso; the Border Patrol
reports that 60 percent of the million aliens apprehended in the last fiscal
year were caught along only two border sectors: Chula Vista, Calif., and El
Paso.

Her Employer Would Not Pay


The fines proposed by the bill do not apply to employers of fewer than three
illegal immigrants. It is thus likely that tens of thousands of domestic workers
and gardeners will remain in Houston as they are today, uncounted, invisible.

''There is still enticement to come to the United States illegally,'' said Ruben
Bonilla Jr., an immigration lawyer who is a member of the Texas Governor's Task
Force on Immigration. ''We are sending mixed messages. We want workers in
service to the rich, maids and busboys, but otherwise they are not welcome.

''The flow of illegals will continue. For one thing the pressures inside Mexico
are great. This legislation is being debated with the premise that our laws will
be understood in Mexico. Are Mexican laws understood by Americans? The magnet of
America will remain strong regardless of the legislation.''

Huge numbers who make the border crossing, particularly those from El Salvador
and Guatemala, come to stay. Increasingly, immigration statistics confirm, so do
those who come from Mexico.

75% Appear to Find Work


The large majority, 75 percent or more, according to most studies, do find work
of some kind. Then the undocumented workers melt into a covert society. They are
officially invisible, but their impact on their surroundings is enormous.

It is estimated that up to half the citrus and field crops in Texas and southern
California are harvested by illegal immigrants. The low wages and lack of
benefits undercut legitimate wage scales but mean cheaper produce.

A year ago, half the children born in four public hospitals in Los Angeles
County were born to illegal alien mothers; this year the figure is close to two-
thirds.

In Houston, the Harris County Hospital District, which administers 3 hospitals
and 10 clinics, recently asked each patient applying for treatment whether he or
she was a citizen. One out of 10 answered no, and the hospital estimated the
annual cost to taxpayers at $3.5 million to $4 million, out of a budget of $193
million.

Boon to Their Employers Seen


A recent analysis by a Rice University economics professor estimated that
nonpayment of taxes by employers hiring illegal immigrants amounted to $11
billion a year, and that all told $18 billion a year was ''being siphoned off
into the pockets of greedy employers'' through failure to pay taxes and provide
benefits and through payment of substandard wages.

The professor, Dr. Donald L. Huddle, has also maintained that for every 100
illegal immigrants employed in this country, 65 American workers were displaced.
The resulting cost in terms of unemployment benefits paid to the displaced
American workers, he says, is $18 billion a year.

Hispanic organizations dispute Dr. Huddle's finding, contending that the great
majority of the illegal immigrants take low-paying jobs American citizens will
not do for comparable wages, and thus few willing Americans are actually bumped
from the job market.

This is impossible to verify or reject. Because employers are not now required
to determine the citizenship of an employee, there is little hard information on
the kinds of jobs illegal immigrants take, how much they are paid and how many
workers they displace.

But what data are available indicate that a substantial number of Americans are
displaced, and that while wage exploitation is rampant, by no means are all
wages so low that Americans would sniff at them.

U.S. Checked the Wages


In a six-month period ending last March, for example, the Immigration and
Naturalization Service recorded the wages of 72,430 working illegal aliens they
apprehended.

Of those, 14 percent made less than the minimum wage of $3.35 an hour.
Fifty-eight percent earned $3.35 to $4.25 an hour, 17 percent $4.25 to $5.25 an
hour, and 11 percent earned more than $5.25 an hour, mostly in light industry
and construction.

Dr. Huddle estimated that a third of the commercial-construction jobs in Houston
were held by illegal immigrants at above the minimum wage.

At the same time, there seems to be little question that some jobs are created
by the availability of workers willing work for low wages. A study prepared for
the nonprofit Urban Institute in Washington by Thomas Muller, an economist,
concluded that ''perhaps 52,000 low-wage jobs in highly competitive
manufacturing industries would not exist if Mexicans were not present.''

In his study ''The Fourth Wave,'' Dr. Muller concludes, in contrast with some
other studies, that the typical immigrant family of Mexican origin in Los
Angeles, two-thirds of whom are illegal, absorbs $2,199 more in public services
than it pays in taxes.

At the same time, the Social Security Administration has found that three-
quarters of working illegal immigrants pay Social Security taxes, some inventing
numbers to avoid arousing suspicion, but far fewer ever collect, creating a net
gain for the Social Security Adminstration.

Maria H.'s family and their problem are tangled in these statistics, and they
agreed to discuss their case provided they would not be identified because of
the fear of deportation. The threat of exposure has been a constant, nagging
worry and now it is almost palpable threat because of the illness of the
youngest child.

A Child Who Does Not Cry

Lying in her crib in the little house festooned with religious icons and the
flag of Mexico, the new baby wrinkles her face as babies do, and opens her mouth
to cry. But there is no sound.

The child was born with paralyzed vocal cords and a respiratory problem that
requires continuous care and visits by trained nurses.

The bills are now close to the $30,000 ceiling in the husband's employee medical
insurance policy, so he took a desperate gamble: He applied for Social Security
disability benefits.

He used the valid number he held from the time his work permit was valid, but
now the couple live in fear they will be discovered and sent back.

What that would mean to the request for medical help for the baby is unclear.
Because the husband holds a Social Security card and deductions have continued,
it is possible medical assistance may be granted.

Money With No Numbers


Other immigrants who pay into Social Security will in no case collect. A rice
farmer south of Houston who has employed 6 to 10 illegal workers for nine years
makes it a point to calculate and send in Social Security taxes, though none of
the workers has a card. ''I keep sending it in, and they keep sending back a
letter asking for the numbers, and I just throw it away,'' he said.

Similarly, income taxes are withheld from the wages of most illegal workers, but
they never file for their refunds. The Internal Revenue Service thus reaps a
windfall.

Dr. Muller's study found that while recent Mexican and other immigrants, half of
them illegal, absorbed fully two- thirds of all the 644,000 jobs added in Los
Angeles County from 1970 to 1980, their presence did not cause unemployment to
rise among non-Hispanic minority group members.

New Jobs Covered the Gap


That is because the booming southern California economy created enough new jobs.

Demographers project that this might be the case nationally at least until the
end of the century: more jobs will be created than the American work force can
fill, particularly in the service fields, and the shortfall could logically be
filled by continued immigration.

At the same time, the immigration bill attempts to regulate and control the flow
of immigrants, including a provision for increased quotas of temporary farm
workers according to need, to be determined by application from growers.

Theoretically, the farm workers will return to Mexico when the season is over,
but critics of the program ask what would keep them from staying.

Further, critics of the immigration bill in the form approved by the House
maintain that it is likely to be unenforceable without development of a
''counterfeit-proof'' method of proving a person's status.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of illegal aliens (page D22)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              109 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 2, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESS;
THE IMMIGRATION BILL'S MELTING POT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 1


The politics of immigration make strange bedfellows, and nothing better
illustrates that fact than the growing relationship between Representative Kent
Hance, a conservative Texas Democrat, and Arnoldo S. Torres, executive director
of the League of United Latin American Citizens.

The two have joined forces in a campaign to search for ways to kill the
comprehensive immigration bill now headed for a conference committee, yet they
differ on a key provision.

Mr. Hance, who was warmly received June 24 at the League of United Latin
American Citizens' 55th annual convention in El Paso, has been a tireless foe of
the section of the bill that would offer legal status to many illegal aliens. He
says this would ''legalize the theft of American jobs'' from United States
citizens.

Mr. Torres strongly opposes the bill, saying it will lead to more discrimination
against Hispanic people, but he likes the amnesty provision.

More Paradoxes


The paradoxes in the politics of immigration do not stop there. The Speaker of
the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., has stressed that the immigration bill was not
a Democratic bill. And a majority of House Democrats voted against it, while a
majority of Republicans supported it. But Hispanic groups opposing the bill hold
the Democrats responsible, and they criticize Walter F. Mondale for not doing
more to stop it.

Without the amnesty provision, there can be no immigration bill. Supporters of
the bill see it as an essential corollary to the bill's ban on employment of
illegal aliens. Under this section, an employer who hired illegal aliens would
be subject to a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each such alien.

The bill has been adopted in different forms by both houses of Congress. The
Senate vote was 76 to 18, but the margin in the House was much more narrow, 216
to 211. It appears unlikely that the conference committee of lawmakers from both
houses will make any substantial headway in reconciling the differences before
Congress returns from recess July 23, after the Democratic National Convention.

Mr. Mondale, who expects to win the Democratic Presidential nomination, has said
repeatedly that he opposed the bill on the ground that it could lead to more
employment discrimination against Hispanic Americans. The sponsors of the
legislation, Senator Alan K. Simspon, Republican of Wyoming, and Representative
Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, deny that such discrimination would
occur.

'Unhappy With the Democrats'


But Joe M. Sanchez, a prominent Mexican-American businessman in Los Angeles,
said: ''We are very unhappy with the Democrats for not being more sensitive to
the needs of Hispanics. I was planning to hold a fund-raiser for the Democrats
and probably would have raised $25,000. I have decided not to do that.''

Mr. Sanchez was asked why Hispanic groups did not direct their wrath toward
Republicans and the Reagan Administration, which strongly supports the bill. He
replied: ''Hispanics, especially Mexican- Americans, have tended to vote
Democratic. The Republicans don't owe us anything. The people who owe us
something should pay.''

Support for the bill, like opposition, cuts across party lines. Among the
Democrats voting for the bill were Jim Wright of Texas, the majority leader;
Thomas S. Foley of Washington State, the majority whip, and Barney Frank of
Massachusetts. In debate over the bill, Democrats clashed bitterly among
themselves while Republicans were, to a remarakble degree, united under party
discipline.

Representative Newt Gingrich, a Georgia Republican, said: ''When you have
debaters as eloquent as Barney Frank attacking fellow Democrats, it makes you
feel good. Better he should attack them than us. This is not a political bill in
the traditional sense. Most of us on the Republican side genuinely believe that
if a nation cannot control its borders, it cannot defend its sovereignty. We saw
it as an issue relating to the long-term security of our country, not a short-
term political issue.''

'Splintering' the Democrats


Fernando E. C. De Baca, co-chairman of the Republican National Hispanic
Assembly, an affiliate of the Republican National Committee, said the
immigration issue was ''splintering'' the Democratic Party.

''The liberal Democratic leadership,'' he asserted, ''is out of touch with the
grass-roots Hispanic community, which includes many people who support the major
provisions of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill. The jobs that illegal aliens take are,
in many cases, jobs currently held by minorities, including Hispanic
Americans.''

The politics of immigration correlate with geography more closely than with
usual liberal-conservative or Democratic-Republican alignments. The Texas
delegation voted against the Simpson-Mazzoli bill by a margin of 23 to 3, and
the California delegation also opposed it, 33 to 12. But in Florida, which
absorbed an influx of 125,000 Cubans in 1980, there was strong support, with the
state's delegation voting 17 to 2 in favor.

Many illegal aliens in Texas and California are Mexicans who live in fear of the
law but provide those states with cheap seasonal labor, and some return to
Mexico in the off-season. But most Cubans and Haitians who would benefit from
the bill were granted provisional permission to live in the United States when
they came here, and they have remained, mostly in Florida, where they have added
to state and local costs for health, education and social services.

At the time of the 1980 census, slightly more than half the nation's Hispanic
people lived in Texas and California. They accounted for only 5.5 percent of the
nation's voting-age population, but they accounted for 17.7 percent in Texas,
16.1 percent in California and 8.5 percent in Florida. Census figures do not
distinguish between legal and illegal aliens.

Temporary Workers Program


The importance of geography was also reflected in an amendment creating a
program to provide temporary foreign workers for some fruit and vegetable
producers. The amendment, anathema to organized labor, was proposed by
Representatives Leon E. Panetta, a Democrat from California's Salinas Valley,
and Sid Morrison, a Republican from Washington's Yakima Valley. Among those who
helped the growers lobby in Congress was the law firm of Robert S. Strauss,
former chairman of the Democratic National Committee.

Republican House members overwhelmingly supported the amendment, 138 to 15, but
it also drew support from 90 Democrats.

President Reagan and other Republicans can support the Simpson- Mazzoli bill
because it is, in one sense, a law-enforcement measure, designed to crack down
on illegal immigration. But there are political crosscurrents that lead some
conservatives, in the Administration and Congress, to balk. They see the amnesty
as a reward for lawbreakers. They fear that the amnesty will increase social
welfare costs for the Government. And they see the bill as authorizing a large
new role for the Government in regulating business.

Representative Jack F. Kemp, Republican of upstate New York, gave a supply-side
economist's view of the issue, saying: ''Immigrants don't take jobs and wealth
away from Americans. Immigrants create jobs and wealth, as consumers of American
goods and services and entrepreneurs beginning small businesses, which are the
major source of new jobs for all Americans. Immigration is not a zero-sum
proposition.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              110 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 18, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ACCORD IN CONGRESS SETS '81 CUTOFF DATE FOR ALIEN AMNESTY

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 883 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17


House and Senate negotiators drafting a comprehensive immigration bill agreed
today to offer legal status to illegal aliens who entered the United States
before Jan. 1, 1981, and have lived here continuously since then.

The agreement split the difference between the House and Senate on one of the
most sensitive questions in the bill. The House's version of the bill had set
the date at Jan. 1, 1982. The Senate had specified Jan. 1, 1980.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chief sponsor of the Senate
bill, said the ''legalization is an extraordinary act of grace, unprecedented in
our law.''

The agreement came on the third day of negotiations on the immigration bill.
Participants and observers have expressed surprise at the progress being made in
the negotiations, despite the political volatility of the issue in an election
year.

The key elements of the bill, including the legalization program and penalties
against employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens, are now in place. But the
bill cannot become law unless it is approved in the same form by both houses of
Congress and signed by the President.

Immigration officials estimated that two million to three million illegal aliens
might be eligible for the program approved by the conferees today. But estimates
of the illegal alien population are notoriously unreliable.  Under the
conference agreement, illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan.
1, 1977, and have lived here continuously since then could become lawful
permanent resident aliens. They could apply for citizenship after five years as
lawful permanent residents.

Illegal aliens who entered this country from Jan. 1, 1977, through Dec. 31,
1980, would qualify for temporary resident status.

Knowledge of United States


After two years as temporary residents, they could apply for permanent resident
status. To become permanent residents, they would have to demonstrate a
''minimal understanding of ordinary English and a knowledge and understanding of
the history and government of the United States,'' or they would have to show
that they were enrolled in courses to achieve such knowledge in all three areas.
The course of study would have to be one approved by the Attorney General.

Aliens could offer rent receipts, paycheck stubs and other such documents as
evidence of continuous residence in the United States. They could also submit
affidavits as ''independent corroboration'' of the documents.

Senator Simpson and others expressed concern that some illegal aliens might use
forged or counterfeit documents to show they were entitled to legal status. The
Government could ask for additional evidence when there was doubt about the
documents.

One Level of Review


The conferees agreed that an illegal alien who applied unsuccessfully for legal
status could appeal to an administrative review board in the Justice Department,
but there would be only one level of review. Senator Simpson said it was
important to prevent the long series of appeals that have, in recent years,
delayed the expulsion of some aliens seeking asylum in the United States.

Representative Bill McCollum, a Florida Republican, said the eligibility date
for aliens seeking legal status was, politically, the most important element in
the bill.

Representative Carlos J. Moorhead, a California Republican, said, ''Our local
officials are frightened to death of what will happen if a 1982 date is picked,
because of the cost to local government.'' More aliens could have qualified for
legal status under the 1982 date of the House bill, which passed by a five-vote
margin, than under the date of the Senate bill.

'Harshness and Generosity'


But Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, said in support of
the 1982 date in the House bill, said: ''We seek a balance of harshness and
generosity that will be properly humane and effective. It's not healthy to have
these people hanging around here with no legal way to earn a living and
disbarred from welfare.''

Hispanic groups said the legalization program was surrounded with many
restrictions and requirements that would discourage illegal aliens from taking
advantage of it.

''It's a sham,'' said Charles Kamasaki, a policy analyst for the National
Council of La Raza, a Hispanic civil rights organization. The 1981 eligibility
date, the English-language requirement and the distinction between temporary and
permanent residents would all reduce the effectiveness of the program, he said.

Joe M. Trevino of the League of United Latin American Citizens said the 1981
eligibility date was ''a clear indication that Congress is trying to restrict
the number of eligible participants.'' As a result, he said, a sizable ''shadow
population'' of illegal aliens would remain even if the bill passed.

In other action today, the conferees agreed to drop a section of the Senate bill
expressing the sense of Congress that ''English is the official language of the
United States.''

The conferees also dropped a section of the House bill expressing the sense of
Congress that Salvadorans facing deportation should be allowed to remain in this
country until the situation in their homeland changed so as to permit them to
return safely.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              111 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 21, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Teen-Ager Deported By Mistake Is Found

BYLINE: AP)

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 268 words

DATELINE: SAN DIEGO, Feb. 20


A 15-year-old Santa Ana boy mistakenly deported to Mexico five days ago was
found today wandering outside the downtown San Diego police station, officers
said.  Police Officer Dennis Doremus said a ''citizen contacted us and told us
he was out there on Harbor Drive across from the police station.'' The boy,
Mario Moreno Lopez, was dropped off in Tijuana at midnight Wednesday by U.S.
immigration officials.


The youth and 33 other suspected of being illegal aliens had been rounded up
Wednesday morning on a Santa Ana street corner where Hispanic people congregate
to wait for rides to work, said officials of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service.  Asked if he knew how the boy spent the past five days, Officer Doremus
replied, ''I really don't know.''

The boy's father Juan Moreno had been searching for him in Tijuana today, and
Joe Thomas, assistant regional director for the Los Angeles sector of the
immigration service, said a computer check had confirmed Mr. Moreno's statement
that his son had a visa and was a legal resident of the United States.  Tijuana
police had issued and all-points bulletin.

However, a spokesman for the I.N.S., John Belluardo, said: ''We cannot form a
search party to help locate him. That is beyond our jurisdiction.''

It could not be determined whether the boy had been advised of his right to a
hearing, as required by I.N.S. policy, before being deported.

Mr. Moreno said the boy did not have his resident alien card when he was picked
up because he was afraid the boy would lose it. ''I'm so sorry I didn't let him
have it,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              112 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 3, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

O'NEILL TO DELAY DEBATE ON ALIENS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 866 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 2


The Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., agreed today to postpone debate
on a comprehensive immigration bill until after the California Democratic
primary June 5.

The Massachusetts Democrat said he was taking the action in response to a plea
from the California Democratic delegation in the House. Walter F. Mondale,
campaigning for the Democratic Presidential nomination, also asked the Speaker,
in a telephone call today, to postpone action on the bill, a spokesman for Mr.
O'Neill said.

Representative Don Edwards, the chairman of California's Democratic delegation,
and Representative Douglas H. Bosco, the secretary-treasurer, said sentiment in
the delegation was running overwhelmingly against the bill.

The legislation, designed to curtail the influx of illegal aliens into this
country, was introduced by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky. It would penalize
employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens and would offer legal status to
many illegal aliens already in the country. The Senate last May passed a version
of the bill supported by the Reagan Administration.

New Date for Debate

The House bill is generally similar, but differs in numerous details. House
Democratic leaders had been planning to call it up for debate the week of May
21. Mr. O'Neill said today that he would instead schedule the debate for the
second week of June.

''This is definitely the last postponement,'' Mr. O'Neill said.

But California Democrats said they would probably seek further delays, first to
get past the Democratic National Convention in San Francisco July 16 to 20, then
to defer action until after the Nov. 6 elections.

Representative Dan Lungren, a California Republican who has supported the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill, said he was ''extremely disappointed'' with today's action
by the Speaker. ''This is a Presidential election year,'' he said, ''the House
calendar is fragmented, and every delay makes it less likely that we will be
able to act successfully on the bill.''

Immigration proposals have divided the Democratic Party, pitting some Hispanic
American groups against organized labor. The American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations seeks a statutory ban on employment of
illegal aliens, saying they depress wages and working conditions for American
citizens. But Hispanic groups oppose a ban, saying it would increase the
likelihood of discrimination against people of Hispanic descent.

The three Democratic candidates for President have said they oppose the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill, and the legislation has also become an issue in some
Senate races. For example, Representative Kent R. Hance, a candidate for the
Democratic Senate nomination in Texas, has repeatedly emphasized his opposition
to the bill, especially its provision to grant amnesty for illegal aliens
already in this country. The amnesty, he said, would encourage illegal
immigration, and the illegal aliens would take away jobs from Texans.

The House Rules Committee is drafting a resolution that would set the terms of
debate on the immigration bill. Representative Claude Pepper, Democrat of
Florida, the committee chairman, said in a letter to several House members, ''It
is likely that a large number of amendments will be in order.''

80 Possible Amendments


An outline of the resolution being circulated among committee members lists 80
amendments that might be allowed. An earlier version of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill
died on the floor in December 1982 as the House ran out of time, with nearly 300
amendments pending.

Christopher J. Matthews, a spokesman for Mr. O'Neill, said today, ''He doesn't
want this bill amended to death as it was last time.'' Mr. Matthews said the
Speaker was willing to let critics of the bill have ''a fair day in court.'' But
he added that Mr. O'Neill was ''steaming over the possibility'' that they might
try again to obstruct action by the House.

Mr. O'Neill blocked action on the bill last year at the request of Hispanic
members of Congress, who asserted that President Reagan would veto it to win
favor among Hispanic Americans. At the time, Mr. O'Neill said there was no clear
constituency for the bill, but proponents insisted there was wide support for
it. The Speaker then reversed himself and promised to let the House vote on the
bill this year after receiving assurances that President Reagan would sign a
compromise measure.

The Speaker has asked Representative Bill Richardson, a freshman Democrat from
New Mexico, to try to negotiate a compromise. Mr. Richardson is a member of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus. Most caucus members support a very different bill
offered by Representative Edward R. Roybal, a California Democrat. Mr. Roybal
rejects employer sanctions as ''unworkable and discriminatory.'' His bill would
provide more money to enforce existing labor laws, on the theory that employers
hire illegal aliens because they can be exploited.

Mr. Roybal wants to offer key provisions of his bill as amendments to the
Simpson-Mazzoli legislation. He has proposed more than 20 such amendments.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              113 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 15, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

JESSE JACKSON CROSSES INTO MEXICO TO DENOUNCE AN IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By FAY S. JOYCE

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 508 words

DATELINE: TIJUANA, Mexico, May 14


The Rev. Jesse Jackson sought Hispanic votes today with an unexpected dart
across the Mexican border, where he declared that illegal immigrants were a boon
to the United States economy, not a drain.

''These workers are not hurting our economy - they're a cheap labor base
strengthening our economy,'' he said. He called for more humane and civil
treatment of Mexicans who illegally enter the United States looking for work.

Mr. Jackson left behind his Secret Service agents, who said international
agreements made it impossible for them to accompany him without sufficient
notice, and walked through a revolving gate at a border crossing just south of
San Diego.

Black Muslims in suits and bow ties, who often turn up at his appearances,
stayed at his side and kept others away.

The Mexican Perspective


Then he entered a car and rode to the Center for North American Border Studies
past roadside stands selling ponchos and brightly colored pottery.

He said that by visiting the research center, he hoped to call attention to the
Mexican perspective on border problems and the need for a regional solution.

Mr. Jackson said he did not favor opening the American border to Mexicans
without controlling immigration, but said he did not favor ''brutal'' treatment
of undocumented workers either.

He opposes enactment of the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill, which he said
would require Americans to carry pass books as South Africans do. Sponsors of
the bill strongly deny this.

In the last few days, in an attempt to broaden his reach beyond his black
constituency, Mr. Jackson has campaigned among white farmers in Nebraska,
Chinese in San Francisco's Chinatown and Mexican-Americans meeting in San Jose.

Hispanic Vote in California


The Hispanic vote is important in California, accounting for one of every six
Democratic votes, according to an aide to Walter F. Mondale.

Mr. Mondale, Mr. Jackson and Gary Hart all campaigned for the endorsement of the
Mexican American Political Association in San Jose Sunday. Mr. Mondale won, but
by only four votes over Mr. Jackson, a margin so narrow that some analysts
predicted Mr. Jackson might score well among Hispanic voters in the California
primary June 5.

In his forays in California Mr. Jackson continued to call on President Reagan to
intensify his efforts to talk the Soviet Union into entering the 1984 Olympics.

He said the ''Carter-Mondale Administration'' was wrong in boycotting the 1980
Olympics and declared that the United States was paying the price for that
error.


The Democrats:

A Delegate Update


Alaska, Kansas, Louisiana and

Virginia. ''Other'' represents 36

delegates for Mayor Harold

Washington of Chicago and 22 for

George McGovern. Some tallies

represent incomplete delegate

selection processes and are

subject to change.  Mondale1,528 Hart886 Jackson303 Uncomm.329 Other58
TOTAL3,104

TOTAL DELEGATE VOTES: 3,933

NEEDED TO NOMINATE: 1,967 Source: United Press International

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              114 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

The Immigration Bills: A Comparison

SECTION: Section D; Page 21, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 712 words


Employer Sanctions HOUSE Requires employers of four or more persons to ask all
job applicants for documents to verify that they are citizens or aliens
authorized to work in the United States. Acceptable documents include United
States passport or a combination of driver's license with Social Security card
or birth certificate.  No requirement for study of or improvements in
identification system.  Requires Attorney General to establish a toll-free
telephone number that employers could call to validate Social Security numbers.
Employer would have a ''complete defense'' against charges of hiring illegal
aliens if he had validated their Social Security numbers.  After six-month
transition period, first offense is punishable by a citation or warning. For
second offense, there is a civil penalty of $1,000 for each illegal alien hired.
For third and subsequent offenses, there is a $2,000 civil penalty for each
illegal alien hired. No criminal penalties.  Forbids employers to discriminate
against United States citizens and legal aliens because of their national origin
or status as aliens.  Forbids immigration officers to enter farms or fields
without a search warrant or the owner's consent.  Increases criminal penalties
for anyone who brings aliens to the United States if the aliens do not have
''prior official authorization'' to enter this country or live here.  SENATE
Same.  Requires the President, after three years, to make such changes as ''may
be necessary to establish a secure system to determine employment eligibility in
the United States.'' No such requirement. After one-year transition period, the
Government may assess a civil penalty of $1,000 for each illegal alien hired by
an employer. Civil penalty for second offense is $2,000 for each illegal alien
hired. For a ''pattern or practice'' of violations, employer may be fined $1,000
and imprisoned six months.  Requires the President and the General Accounting
Office to study enforcement of the law to determine whether it results in
employment discrimination.  Same.  Has similar provision.  Settling Disputes
HOUSE Establishes the United States Immigration Board as an independent agency
in the Justice Department, to hear appeals from decisions by administrative law
judges.  SENATE Similar provision. But does not describe the Immigration Board
as an independent agency.  Money HOUSE SENATE Authorizes $200 million for the
fiscal year 1984 to carry out provisions of the legislation.  Legal Immigration
HOUSE SENATE Temporary Foreign Workers HOUSE Creates a three-year transition
program permitting farmers to adjust to the new law. They could employ their
usual number of illegal aliens the first year, 67 percent the second year and 33
percent the third year, with full compliance required after that.  SENATE
Similar provisions.  Amnesty HOUSE Aliens would be ineligible for most types of
Federal financial assistance in the five-year period starting with the day they
obtain legal status as temporary residents. Bill makes an exception for child
nutrition programs, assistance to the aged, blind and disabled, services to
pregnant women and emergency health services.  SENATE Aliens would be ineligible
for most types of Federal financial assistance during the time they are
temporary residents and for their first three years as lawful permanent
residents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: STATISTICS

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              115 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 4, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

HISPANIC WORKERS SAY HOUSE'S IMMIGRATION BILL DEMONSTRATES INGRATITUDE

BYLINE: By JESUS RANGEL

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 829 words

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO,


By his own description, Jose Rodriguez, a retired welder living in the large
West Side barrio here, ''drips pride like perspiration.''

He came to San Antonio from Mexico illegally in the 1950's and held a variety of
jobs before retiring from a job in an air-conditioner factory two years ago.
Over the years he became a naturalized citizen, reared three children, two of
whom are graduating from college, and helped numerous relatives migrate here.

Most of those relatives, like his nephew Jesus Rodriguez next door, have
established small businesses and are doing well, he said.

''We never got on welfare or had problems with the police,'' Jose Rodriguez
said. ''We've helped ourselves and the city at a time when they needed laborers
here.''

Mr. Rodriguez is among many residents in this barrio, one of the largest
concentration of Hispanic people in the United States, who said they opposed the
comprehensive immigration bill passed recently by the House of Representatives.
The Senate has passed a similar bill and a conference committee is expected to
meet to resolve the differences.

The legislation, whose chief sponsors are Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and Representaive Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, would impose
penalties on employers who hired illegal aliens. The measure would also offer
legal status to illegal aliens who have lived continuously in this country for a
certain time. The cutoff date is still uncertain because the House and Senate
versions differ.

Mr. Rodriguez and other residents said they had contributed to building the city
and the country and viewed the immigration bill as a slap at immigrants like
themselves. They said they were particularly concerned about having to prove to
an employer that they were citizens. Beyond that, they said, the debate in the
House had revealed ingratitude toward immigrants and their contributions.

''It's not right to treat people this way,'' Mr. Rodriguez said as he repaired a
bicycle for a neighbor's child outside his modest wooden home. ''The ones who
want this law are ungrateful.''



Jesus Rodriguez, who started fixing flat tires as a living after coming to San
Antonio in the 1960's, now owns a tire store and is a citizen. He said he did
not mind a provision approved by the House requiring temporary residents with
amnesty to be studying English and United States history and government if they
sought to become permanent residents.

''That's a part that people around here don't mind because learning English and
some history is something you can encounter just by working,'' he said. ''But I
don't like penalizing employers because that means if I hire a friend of a
relative who is here illegally, I'm violating a law. In my opinion, helping a
friend is more important than where he was born.''

Down the street, at a small cabinet manufacturing company employing mostly
Mexican-Americans, three workers also said they had followed the bill's progress
through the Congress.

''Even though they say you don't have to carry identification around, the
employer will want to know where you were born and to prove it,'' said Ricardo
Y. Sanchez. ''They have no right to tell me what identification to have.''

As he talked, a co-worker joined Mr. Sanchez and the other two men for lunch in
the parking lot.

''That man, Mazzoli, he won't have to prove where he's from,'' Mr. Sanchez said
as his friends laughed. ''Why should we?''



San Antonio, with nearly 800,000 residents, is the largest city in the nation to
have a majority Hispanic population, at 55 percent, and the largest with a
Mexican-American Mayor, Henry Cisneros, a product of the West Side barrio.

Since taking office, Mr. Cisneros has enjoyed some success in making the the
city into a high-technology research and manufacturing center.

Most of the efforts have been concentrated on attracting electronics plants. Now
the city is moving to build a communications system to serve present and future
electronic companies and government offices as well.

Called the Texas Teleport, it is expected by city officials to become a major
communications center in Texas. It will link the businesses and research centers
to other parts of the United States and the world.

At first, Texas Teleport will be designed to serve communicatons and
computer-based industries in New World, which is planned as a a 3,000- acre
community of offices, research and development facilities, apartments,
condominiums and single- family homes and shopping and entertainment facilities.

It will also serve a foreign trade zone of light assembly and manufacturing,
warehouses office space and distribution facilities.

Later, it will be integrated to transmit information for state and city
government offices.

''No American city can realize its full potential in the post-industrial economy
without a sophisticated communication infrastructure,'' said Mayor Cisneros.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jose Rodriguez tire store

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              116 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 7, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

LIVING ILLEGALLY IN NEW YORK IS SAID TO BE EASY FOR ALIENS

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2149 words


Thousands of illegal aliens in the New York area are living relatively normal
lives by buying bogus documents, using the names of legal residents or simply
relying on the inability of the Government to enforce the law, according to
government officials and immigration specialists.

They can rent apartments, open bank accounts, send their children to school,
join unions, collect unemployment payments, get driver's licenses and pay taxes.

Whether they get into the country with the help of smuggling networks or with
temporary visitor's visas, they often settle down quietly in jobs and homes. A
few - no one knows just how many - even manage to get various kinds of public
assistance.

''Once aliens get here, they can move around fairly freely,'' said Milton D.
Kramer, chairman of the New York chapter of the American Immigrant Lawyers'
Association. ''I wouldn't get out the crying towel for them.''

Marguerite Aumoithe, 41 years old, came to the United States from Haiti in 1971
on a visitor's visa. She is still here, illegally.

Soon after her arrival, she was able to get a valid Social Security card. She
was married in New York's City Hall, bore a son, who is a United States citizen,
and divorced. She joined the capmaker's union Local 2, held a number of jobs and
completed a $1,500 beautician's course. She received workers' compensation when
she was ill and unemployment benefits when she was laid off.

She banks at the Village Bank of New Jersey, drives a car on a New Jersey
driver's license and pays taxes.

Illegal aliens have a constant fear that they can be found out and deported at
any time, but Mrs. Aumoithe was willing to be quoted by name because she expects
the Immigration and Naturalization Service to approve a petition for permanent
residence filed in her behalf by her mother, who is already a permanent
resident.  ''I know I illegal, but I not afraid,'' she said. ''Everybody has
problems. I young. I never take the welfare. I pay taxes because everybody's
supposed to pay taxes, even the President.''

Agency's Resources Limited


Immigration officials say limited resources preclude the investigative unit of
the New York district office from pursuing these cases of law-abiding aliens
whose documents are not in order.

Instead, the unit has created a team of senior investigators who focus on
smugglers and document vendors. Officials say the trade in bogus documents will
greatly increase if immigration legislation now pending in Congress is passed.

''We don't have the manpower or the funds to pursue that individual alien,''
said Robert McByrne, a supervisory investigator at the immigration service.
''Our thrust is to go after the large- scale perpetrators.''

Investigators recently cracked an alien- and drug-smuggling ring they said was
operating out of San Juan Travel Inc., a travel agency on the West Side of
Manhattan. The arrests followed a one-year investigation by immigration agents
who pretended to take bribes to expedite the safe entry of Dominicans and
cocaine into the United States.

Over that year, authorities said, the ring smuggled in 72 aliens by passing them
through Canada on Puerto Rican birth certificates or by bypassing inspection,
with the help of the immigration agents, at Kennedy International Airport.

Smuggling rings that operate from abroad and offer aliens expensive package
deals that include passports, visas and plane tickets are much harder to
penetrate, and foreigners who have access to these rings are generally more
sophisticated than the aliens who cross the border from Mexico, immigration
officials said.

''Everyone knows you have to go to a consulate to get a visa, and not to a back
alley,'' said Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service in
Washington.

Passport and Ticket for $3,000


Four years ago, 24-year-old Abdul Rasoul, a Mujaheddin guerrilla, fled
Afghanistan for Karachi, Pakistan, where smuggling rings are particularly
active, according to immigration specialists.

There, with the help of the Mujaheddin, he said, he paid an ''agent'' in a hotel
lobby $3,000 for a ticket to New York and an Afghan passport stamped with a
false American business visa. He breezed through the immigration check in New
York and a month later applied for political asylum, which was eventually
granted.

A nephew followed the same route, using a German passport that was probably
stolen, and was granted asylum after nine months in detention.

Then a month and a half ago, Mr. Rasoul's 30-year-old brother, Gholam, who had
been wounded in a gun battle with Soviet troops in Afghanistan, fled to the
United States with his wife and handicapped child on false Pakistani passports.
He admitted to immigration officials that the passports were false and applied
for asylum. His case is pending.

The State Department considers all refugee applications on a case-by-case basis.
But since the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979, the great majority of
Afghans who come here have received either political asylum or what is termed
''temporary withholding of deportation.''

The Rasouls feel their investment in forged passports was worthwhile, even
though they all now live in a cramped one-bedroom apartment in Flushing, Queens.

''You can't wait for the American Embassy to give you a visa,'' said Abdul
Rasoul, who drives a taxicab. ''I had no passport, no documents. If it's going
to save your life, you don't worry about the money to pay for passports.''

Once aliens get settled, they quickly discover that both counterfeit and real
documents are widely available in New York. ''People come up with the doggonest
documents,'' said Charles C. Sava, director of the immigration service for the
New York district. ''Some of them have been voting for years.''

Among the most available counterfeit documents are Social Security cards, voter
registration cards and an obsolete but still valid form of the alien
registration card, or ''green card,'' immigration specialists said.

Market May Grow

Last year, immigration investigators raided a storefront mom-and-pop printing
shop on Columbus Avenue and found thousands of counterfeit documents and
letterheads, from Puerto Rican birth certificates to Queens College diplomas,
the lithograph negatives to reproduce them, and a variety of dyes, seals and
stamps. The potential street value was more than $1 million, they said.

The pending immigration legislation would create a broad new market for such
documents, according to immigration specialists.

The legislation would require aliens applying for amnesty to prove that they had
lived in the country for a certain length of time, and immigration officials
believe that a wide variety of everyday documents, from children's report cards
to telephone bills and rent receipts, would be acceptable evidence. And all,
they say, are easily forged.

The legislation would also impose sanctions on employers who knowingly hire
illegal aliens.  That would increase the value of counterfeit Social Security
cards, work authorization stamps and green cards.

Using another person's name, though, often makes false documents unnecessary.

In one case described by the immigration service, a 75-year-old South American
man who had the right to a green card because a close relative was a permanent
resident of the United States allowed a middle-aged friend to impersonate him
and come to the United States. All the friend had to do in return was to
petition for the admittance of the man's seven grown children.

One by one the children came to the United States, and now, as the result of the
one impersonation, more than 40 family members have legal status.

It is also possible to impersonate a United States citizen. Copies of New York
birth certificates of both living and deceased citizens can be ordered by mail
for $4 with as little information as a name, date and place of birth, mother's
maiden name and father's name.

A birth certificate and two other pieces of identification are the only
requirements for obtaining a driver's license and Social Security card.

Another document that can be obtained legally and then misused is the card
issued by the Social Security Administration to foreign students and visitors
who need to open bank accounts; a Social Security number is required to open
such accounts.

Even though cards issued since February 1982 state ''Not valid for employment,''
some visitors successfully use the nine-digit number for work purposes.

Catching up with an abuser can take months or even years, Social Security
officials say. By that time, the alien may have moved, changed jobs, adjusted
his legal status or left the country.

Immigration officials concede that corruption within the Immigration and
Naturalization Service is not unheard of, and that documents legalizing an
alien's status have at times been sold by immigration employees.

Last year, for example, Anthony Viceroy, a deputy clerk assigned to the
immigration court, was convicted of accepting five bribes of between $400 and
$2,000 to expedite applications and create phony citizenship papers.

The officials say, however, that such cases are relatively infrequent.

Functioning Without Documents


Some aliens prefer to function with no documents at all. One 32-year-old
Peruvian, for example, who arrived in the United States 11 months ago, says he
has had little difficulty finding jobs at the minimum wage in New York.

''Whenever a boss asked for my card, I said, 'Oh no, I forgot it,' and gave him
a number I made up in my head,'' he said.

Now, he says, using an alias on a borrowed Social Security card, he works as a
dishwasher-cook-night watchman at a Manhattan restaurant for the minimum wage.
He manages to send his wife and four sons $500 a month.

He said he does not want to buy phony documents. ''It's too dangerous,'' he
said. ''I don't want to go to jail.''

Aliens who are white and speak English have a much easier time, the aliens say.
A 35-year-old Irishman who was living illegally in Toronto said he came across
the Canadian border at Buffalo in 1978 by using a Canadian friend's birth
certificate, and he has managed to live and work in the United States with only
minor problems.

He said an employment agency representative gave him what he called a ''dead''
Social Security number, which he has used ever since.

Immigration investigators said they were unsure of the origin of the number, but
speculated that it most likely had belonged to someone who had recently died.

The employment agent ''told me to claim nine dependents so I wouldn't have to
pay taxes, and to go to Times Square if I wanted to get a phony card,'' said the
blue-eyed, blond-haired Irishman. In his cut-off jeans and running shoes, no one
would suspect he was not American.

In 1981 he went home for a five-week vacation, he said, and returned on a
five-year work visa that he received from the United States Consulate in Dublin
after presenting false letters and pay stubs showing that he worked for an Irish
company that would be doing business in the United States.

When he went to work at his current job as a bartender and needed a bartender's
license, he said, he went to the Police Department in Hoboken, N.J., gave them
his Social Security number and got the license.

''If I had been Cuban or Salvadoran, they never would have let it go through,''
he said.

He has had some close calls, however, and marvels at his good fortune. Once, the
Brooklyn factory he was working in got raided, and he stood frozen while the
officials, thinking he was legal, chased only the Hispanic employees.

He shares the common fear among aliens living outside the law that no matter how
well they maneuver, they may be arrested or called upon to produce
identification. They can be blackmailed by unscrupulous landlords or difficult
bosses. They can be taken in by fast-talking fixers who promise them green cards
for a fee.

''I lie low, pay cash for everything, don't drive, don't carry any
identification,'' he said. ''I don't smoke in the subways.

''I don't know how I've gotten away with it.''

A tiny percentage of illegal aliens has managed to tap public assistance funds,
immigration investigators say, fraudulently obtaining welfare benefits, food
stamps, Federal housing subsidies and even student loans.

One case that is pending involves two Nigerian fugitives who are charged with
using forged documents to persuade bank officers that they were American
students and to get nearly $32,000 in fraudulent student loans.

But most illegal aliens work hard to keep a low profile and stay out of trouble.
''All they want to do is rent an apartment, buy a used car, work 40 hours a week
and have a barbecue on the weekend,'' said Philip J. Kleiner, an immigration
lawyer.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of James King, immigration inspector, studying suspect travel
documents

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              117 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 6, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TINY ISLANDS OFF FLORIDA FEED STREAM OF ILLEGAL ALIENS INTO U.S.

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Dec. 3


The detention camp is on a desolate piece of ground on the edge of the
Everglades, 9,000 miles from where Mohammad Ahamad began his journey to the
United States.

Mr. Ahamad, a 32-year-old laborer, says he boarded a jetliner in New Delhi five
weeks ago, flew to London, changed planes, crossed the Atlantic to Nassau in the
Bahamas and made his way to the Biminis, a tiny chain of islands 50 miles off
the Florida coast. By nightfall he and 11 other Indians were being smuggled into
Miami aboard a small Bahamian fishing boat.

Mr. Ahamad, who was caught by the Coast Guard when the boat ran out of fuel 25
miles from Miami, was part of a stream of illegal aliens from the Indian
subcontinent who are paying thousands of dollars to make a dash across the Gulf
Stream through what the Immigration and Naturalization Service calls the
''Bimini Pipeline.''

They have traveled halfway around the world to join thousands from the Caribbean
and Latin America who are making Miami the third most active gateway for illegal
immigration, after the Mexican and Canadian borders.

Effort Is Better Financed

Haitians continue to be the largest single group attempting to reach Florida by
boat. Last Friday the Coast Guard intercepted two boats loaded with 397 Haitians
in Bahama waters bound for Florida.

The Indians and Bangladeshi entering the United States by way of the Bahamas are
fewer in number and have received scant attention until recently, but the
officials said they are mounting a better financed and organized assault on
American borders than the more numerous Hatians.

''There's no telling how many illegally enter the U.S. through the pipeline from
Bimini,'' said Ken Powers, supervisor of deportation for the Immigration and
Naturalization Service in Miami.

''My personal feeling,'' he said, ''is that we catch very few of them.''

And many of those who are apprehended eventually lose themselves in American
society, said Perry Rivkind, the service's district director in Miami.

An immigration service survey conducted from June to September showed that about
three out of four illegal aliens failed to appear after they were released in
Miami on bond to await deportation or exclusion hearings, and those from the
Indian subcontinent had even worse records.

''Eighty-three percent of the Indians absconded and 100 percent of the
Bangladeshis during this period,'' Mr. Rivkind said.

Bonds Are Forfeited

Bonds of $3,000 to $5,000 have been forfeited, suggesting that the aliens, who
come from some of the poorest countries in the world, are being financed by
groups who find it profitable to import cheap labor, Mr. Powers said.

''It's funny how these aliens are all bonded out by the same local attorneys
working with surety companies in California,'' Mr. Powers said.

''Most of these people are men in their prime working years, between the ages of
25 and 45,'' he said. ''It has n't been documented, but the suspicion is that
their trip here is paid for by a ring or in some cases by family members, and
they work years like indentured servants to pay it off.''

Eighteen Indians and Bangladeshis are being held at the immigration service
detention center west of Miami, down from 50 or 60 only a few months ago,
according to Gunther O. Wagner, the center's director of operations. But many of
those apprehended on the open sea are forced to fly back to India from the
Bahamas instead of coming to Florida for processing.

Travelers holding Commonweath passports, including Indians and Bangladeshis, are
permitted to enter the Bahamas without visas as long as they possess return
tickets to the homeland, the officials said.

''The Bahamians knew the purpose of their travel to Nassau and Bimini but
they're doing absolutely nothing about it,'' Mr. Powers said.

Government Is Limited

A spokesman for the Bahamian Government said United States officials raised the
issue last year through official channels and British and West German airline
charter operators were requested to monitor the sales of tickets to Commonwealth
passport holders arranging travel to Nassau from Europe.

''We are very concerned about stopping illegal immigration coming into the
Bahamas,'' the spokesman, William Kalis, said. ''But there is a limit to what a
democracy can do to stop legal travelers from coming in.''

However, immigration service and Coast Guard officers said privately that the
Bahamian authorities had been less than vigilant in prosecuting Bahamians caught
by the United States Coast Guard in the act of smuggling aliens into Florida.

Five of those aboard the boat with Mr. Ahamad were put on planes in Nassau to
return home. The rest, because of complications involving their passports or
plane tickets, were transported to Miami. There they were processed at the
immigration service's dentention center.

A total of 512 aliens from 33 different nations were being held at the detention
center one day recently. More than half were Haitians who had attempted in
recent months to enter Florida direct from Haiti or via the Bahamas.

Increased Patrols at Sea

A recent increase in patrols by the Coast Guard and the Navy looking for drug
smugglers in the waters off Florida may have prompted some aliens, especially
those from the Indian subcontinent, to avoid the pipeline and try some other way
to enter the United States, immigration officials said.

Recently, seated on an outdoor bench at the detention center, Mr. Ahamad was
vague about how he had been able to ''borrow'' the $2,500 that enabled him to
reach these shores. In India, he said, he made $50 a month ''if you worked very
hard.''

He tried without success to apply for a visa to work in the United States.
''People like me who try never get visa,'' he said in halting English.

Three bearded Sikhs who sat with him said they were farmers. Through an
interpreter they said they left India four days after the assassination of Prime
Minister Indira Gandhi and, as Sikhs, feared discrimination if forced to return.

They, too, said they had ''borrowed'' money from ''friends'' in the United
States to pay for the $1,200 round-trip ticket and the $1,000 they said they had
given the Bahamian smuggler.

Another alien in the group, Nurul Islam, 59 years old, said he first got into
the United States by jumping ship in New Orleans.

He said he worked as a painter in Brooklyn and married a United States citizen.
He said that they had become separated and he had been apprehended and deported
but that the political situation had worsened in Bangladesh and he had decided
to re-enter the United States with his son and a young friend. His 26-year old
son, Mastaba, displayed a hip wound that he said had been caused by a police
bullet in a political disturbance in Bangladesh.

''All my money I am lose,'' said Mr. Islam said. He said he could not find his
American wife to come and claim him.

Shammul Haque, a Bangladesh native, has been in the detention center since
April. He said he worked for five years in West Germany and then took up the
government's offer to foreign workers to leave the country in return for a cash
settlement. ''They have a worker problem now and we are not needed,'' said Mr.
Haque, a university graduate who worked in an automobile factory.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mohammad Ahamad

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              118 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 April 1, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHURCHES BECOMING HOME TO CENTRAL AMERICAN EXILES

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section 4; Page 9, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 1063 words


From California to Vermont, hundreds of normally law-abiding Americans are
knowingly breaking the law. In churches, monasteries and synagogues, they are
harboring illegal aliens who have fled the violence in Central America.

Americans who advocate the use of religious institutions as sanctuaries say they
are following a tradition that dates back to biblical times and that was honored
here for blacks fleeing slavery and draft evaders during the Vietnam era.

The Reagan Administration says a church-as- sanctuary tradition has no standing
in American law. Nevertheless, Federal authorities have resisted going into
churches and hauling out illegal aliens, but at the same time they have been
warning church leaders that they may be held responsible for their actions. The
illegal aliens could be deported and church officials are liable to fines of up
to $2,000 and five years in prison.

Despite the risks, the idea of providing sanctuary to Central Americans is
spreading beyond the West and Middle West, where it began two years ago. Last
month, a Benedictine monastary in Weston, Vt. welcomed its first refugees -
Guatemalans. Riverside Church in Manhattan is deciding whether it should provide
sanctuary.

There are 110 sanctuary churches in 60 cities around the nation, according to
the Chicago Interreligious Task Force on Central America, which has emerged as
the coordinating body for sanctuaries. The number has been growing. ''We are
receiving one or two declarations a week,'' said Robin Semer, a task force
official.  Religious institutions declare themselves sanctuaries for a
combination of humanitarian and political reasons. For the most part, it is a
way of demonstrating opposition to United States activities in Central America
and to the denial of political asylum to people who flee the area.

Not Welcomed Home

Beverly Keene, director of New York's Interreligious Task Force on Central
America, argued, as many sanctuary proponents do, that ''the United States does
not want to recognize them as refugees because that would call into question
United States policy, which has created war, death and destruction throughout
Latin America.'' She contended that the Federal Government is deporting people
to countries where they face imprisonment or death.

Immigration authorities estimate that more than half a million displaced Central
Americans - the majority from El Salvador - are in the United States illegally.
They include peasants, laborers, students, scholars and former government
officials. According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Washington, the United States has deported 29,479 illegal aliens from El
Salvador alone since 1980. The Administration argues that the majority came to
the United States not for political asylum but for employment opportunities, and
that few are able to show the ''well-founded fear of persecution'' needed to
qualify for asylum and refugee status. State department officials have
acknowledged that some number sent home by the immigration service have been
killed, but as victims of random violence rather than as specific targets of
political factions.  Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service, said
that given the agency's limited enforcement abilities, it decided not to go
after the 300 to 350 illegal aliens who are under the protection of church
organizations. ''When you put it into perspective, the sanctuary movement is
really not that big and is receiving an unjustified amount of attention,'' Mr.
Austin said. The priorities of the service are to apprehend aliens at the
border, to stop the people who smuggle them into the country and to remove
illegal aliens from the work place, he said.  Avoiding ConfrontationSanctuary
organizers say, and some Federal officials admit, that the immigration service
has been restrained largely because it wants to avoid the spectacle of
immigration officers dragging refugees out of churches, which could turn public
opinion against Government policies and increase support for sanctuaries.  But
since, as Mr. Austin acknowledged, the sanctuary phenomenon is growing, such
confrontations may be unavoidable. If churches become major harbors for illegal
aliens, he said, ''We will have to put them on notice that this is civil
disobedience and that sometime in the future they will be held accountable.''
Miss Semer of the Chicago interreligious group said the numbers helped by the
sanctuary movement far exceed the 300 to 350 who formally claimed sanctuary.
Thousands, she said, are receiving food, medical and legal assistance, education
and job training through churches such as the Southside Presbyterian Church in
Tucson, Ariz., the first church to declare sanctuary. There is a sign in Spanish
on the small building that says, ''This is a sanctuary for the oppressed of
Central America.'' One congregant, Philip Conger, said it has been home to a
Salvadoran family since March 1982, but in the meantime has assisted hundreds of
other illegal aliens.

Most of those who take sanctuary begin by living in quarters in the church or on
church grounds. In many cases, nearby housing is eventually found for the
refugees, but they remain under the church's protection.

Many who have accepted sanctuary have gone on to tell American audiences about
politics, military activities and living conditions in their homelands. Miss
Semer said sanctuary coordinating groups often make the arrangements for such
lectures.

The immigration service has yet to arrest any of them, either on or off church
grounds. Two recent incidents, however, have many church leaders and members
worried. In both cases, one in Texas and one in Arizona, church workers and the
Salvadoran refugees they were transporting were arrested by immigration
officials. In both cases, the aliens seemed to be heading for, but had not
reached, the protection of a sanctuary.

Immigration officials in Washington would not say whether these incidents were
part of a stepped-up campaign against the sanctuaries or part of routine
enforcement. Mr. Austin would only reiterate that, in granting sanctuary,
churches were operating outside the law. ''A church,'' he said, ''cannot harbor
illegal aliens any more than it can hide criminals.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Brother John holding Guatemalan refugee

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              119 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 22, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

HAITIANS QUIETLY FIND BETTER LIFE IN THE CITY, DESPITE THEIR FEARS

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1551 words


In a one-bedroom apartment in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, Paulette
lives with her two young children, a boyfriend and four other people.

The apartment has falling plaster, a broken bathtub and a stove that leaks gas,
but Paulette has not confronted the landlord with the conditions. She is a
Haitian immigrant, here on ''parole'' by the Federal Government, afraid to
answer the door or give her last name, much less complain about accommodations.

And as bad as those are, Paulette says, her life is better here than it was in
Haiti. Her building is a strong brick one, not a shack. There is running water
and electricity. And she plans to send her children to day care, which is only
for rich people in Haiti.

Nobody knows how many refugees have fled to the United States from Haiti, one of
the world's most beautiful countries but also one of the poorest. Estimates
range from 300,000 to half a million Haitians in the New York metropolitan area
alone, the great majority of them illegal residents. They come to escape poverty
and a government they say is one of the most repressive in the world. Smaller
Haitian communities have grown up in Miami, Chicago, Washington and Boston.

Freedom is Restricted


Those who, like Paulette, are on immigration parole never technically entered
the United States. They were detained at the border and held pending
''exclusion'' proceedings, a legal hearing to determine whether someone should
be excluded from entering the country.

But such proceedings take months or years to unfold, and the Government
sometimes releases the detainee - placing him or her on parole - for special
reasons, such as ill health, old age, pregnancy or other circumstances.

According to immigration officials, parolees may not hold jobs, move or change
their status in any way without permission from the Federal Immigration Service.
Any arrest or violation of the strict terms of parole may constitute grounds for
revoking it. Parole ends when a case in exclusion proceedings is completed and
all appeals are exhausted.

Because of the strict conditions of their stay here, the Haitian presence is
muted. Many Haitians are afraid to put their names on their doors or register to
vote or take court action for fear of attracting the attention of immigration
authorities, according to social workers.

If they have jobs, many work ''off the books,'' the social workers said.
Paulette, for example, says she wants to find work as a live-in domestic when
her 4-month-old daughter is a little older. Her boyfriend is unemployed.

The Haitian community is closely knit and elaborately structured, with Haitian
grocers and Creole restaurants as well as Haitian social, political and cultural
organizations, churches, bookstores, newspapers and radio programs, lawyers and
tailors and even voodoo groups.

The largest such community in the city is in Brooklyn's Crown Heights-East
Flatbush area, nicknamed ''La Saline'' for the slum district of Haiti's capital
of Port-au-Prince. There are also communities on Manhattan's Upper West Side and
in Cambria Heights, Queens, and in the New Jersey cities of Newark, East Orange,
Elizabeth and Asbury Park.

AIDS: a Special Concern


Besides the usual problems of immigrants - language difficulties, crowded
housing, unemployment, sweatshops - Haitians have a special concern, their
reported link to AIDS, or acquired immune-deficiency syndrome. This is an
often-fatal disease characterized by severe depression of the body's immune
defenses, and it most commonly appears among homosexuals.

Haitians say they suffer employment discrimination, although the city's Health
Commissioner took Haitians off the list of high-risk AIDS group in July 1983.
The National Centers for Disease Control still lists Haitians as an AIDS risk.

''The community is being hurt by the AIDS allegations - some people have lost
jobs, students are discriminated against and many suffer from psychological
stress,'' said Joseph Etienne, head of the Haitian Centers Council, an umbrella
organization of six centers set up in New York to help Haitian immigrants get
established.

Another source of tension is last month's ruling by the United States Supreme
Court giving Federal Immigration authorities the right to enter factories to
check on undocumented workers.

$2,000 Hospital Bill


One Haitian lives in a one-bedroom apartment with five friends in the Crown
Heights section. A 48-year- old tailor, he has a work permit and so qualifies
for public assistance. Although he has serious kidney problems, he refuses to
apply for Medicaid and owes the hospital more than $2,000.

''I'm afraid they'll give the information to Immigration and send me back to
Haiti,'' he said.

Only ''desperate'' people want to go back to Haiti now, according to Marl ene
Laurent, who was expelled from Haiti nearly four years ago with her husband, an
engineer. She now runs the Haitian center in Crown Heights, called the
Charlemagne Peralte Center.

But many Haitians say they are tired of being afraid, first in Haiti, now here.

Tired of Being Afraid


Joseph, a 42-year-old farmer, is afraid of the Tonton Macoutes, or the Haitian
secret police, who he says beat him and held him prisoner for seven months until
he escaped in May 1981. He is also afraid of Federal Immigration authorities,
who kept him in detention camps for almost two years and have rejected his
appeal for political asylum.

For the last 11 months, Joseph has been working at a children's clothing factory
in Queens for $171 a week. He pays $120 a month for a room in Brooklyn. He has
just enrolled in the English class at the local Haitian Center with hopes of
getting a better job and sending for his wife and three children.

Along with thousands of other Haitians here, he has pinned his hopes on
legislation before Congress that would make him a legal resident of the United
States.

The bill would provide permanent residence status to Haitians and Cubans who
arrived in the United States before Jan. 1, 1982. An estimated 125,000 Cubans
and 25,000 Haitians, known as 'boat people,' came to the United States in
1980-81. A hearing on the bill is scheduled for next month.

Few Get Political Asylum


''The first wave of Haitian immigrants, mostly intellectuals, who fled the
repressive regime of Papa Doc Duvalier were generally well received here in the
late 1950's and 1960's but when the non-qualified, illiterate masses tried to
escape the poverty and police harassment in the mid-1970's, the American society
tended to reject them - like a disease,'' said Jean-Jacques Honorat, an
international development consultant. A former cabinet minister, Mr. Honorat was
expelled from Haiti on charges of subversion in 1981. He is one of only six
Haitian exiles to receive political asylum in the past two years.

Although most Haitians are Roman Catholic, even those in the United States often
go first to their local voodoo priests for help in finding a job or curing an
illness, according to Mrs. Laurent of the Haitian Center. Sometimes their only
souvenir from home is an image of the Black Virgin or a talisman of Erzulie, one
of the good spirits.

Because of its large concentration of Haitians, the Roman Catholic Diocese of
Brooklyn brought Creole- speaking priests of the Holy Ghost Order here, who give
folk-dancing classes, teach courses and celebrate mass in Creole.

In the New York area, the Haitian Centers Council provides counseling,
vocational training, language courses and general assistance. The
Haitian-American Cultural Foundation, headed by a former Haitian lawyer, Jerome
Audige, offers similar services in New Jersey.

1,000 Turned Away


''What we're trying to do is improve conditions for Haitians living here,'' said
Mr. Etienne of the council. He cited the case of Imacula Abraham, a 49-year- old
cancer patient in Kings County Hospital, whose four children were arrested last
February because she could not pay the $10,000 hospital bill. The council
protested to the Mayor, got the children released and set up an advisory board
in the hospital to resolve such problems.

Arthur C. Helton, a spokesman for the Lawyers Committee for International Human
Rights, which has enlisted 1,500 volunteer lawyers nationwide to help Haitians,
charged that they were still being ''victimized'' by United States interdiction
policies. More than 1,000 Haitian refugees have been turned back by Coast Guard
vessels intercepting ships from Haiti, he said. His committee has protested that
this is illegal under international and domestic law.

Although there is only a ''trickle'' of refugees coming from Haiti because it
has become more difficult to get out, arrests are continuing. Some 200 Haitians
are currently under detention, according to Mr. Helton. In September 1983, there
were 5,487 Haitian claims for political asylum pending. Only one was granted
last year.

''Other aliens don't face the same dangers as Haitians returning home,'' Mr.
Etienne said. ''Deportation for us means imprisonment, even physical elimination
because the fact of demanding asylum is considered an act of treason for the
Duvalier dictatorship.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of First Communion class; photo of Deacon Ernst Paul

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              120 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 8, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

7 DEAD IN CAPSIZING OF VESSEL FILLED WITH FLEEING HAITIANS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section D; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 464 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 7


A seventh body was pulled from the sea near Haiti today, and the Coast Guard and
Navy searched for at least two more people missing after a sailboat capsized
when United States immigration agents boarded the vessel to check for illegal
aliens.

Sixty-one people were rescued, many of them injured women and children, after
the sailboat capsized Wednesday, according to Petty Officer 1st Class Joe
Gibson, a Coast Guard spokesman here. He said three of the injured, including a
pregnant woman, had been flown to the United States Navy base at Guantanamo Bay,
Cuba.

The 30-foot wooden boat, packed with as many as 70 Haitians, capsized after
Coast Guard officers and an Immigration and Naturalization Service interpreter
boarded the vessel from the cutter Hamilton, Mr. Gibson said.

The two missing people included the interpreter, Jacques Crevecoeur, 47 years
old, said Brenda Flint, a Coast Guard spokesman.

Site of Capsizing


The sailboat overturned about 5:30 P.M. Wednesday about 20 miles north of
Haiti's coast and about 500 miles southeast of Miami.

''When our Coast Guard team came on board the vessel, a large number of Haitians
ran up from out of a hold and all ran to one side of the deck,'' Lieutenant
Simpson explained. ''The vessel listed to that side. The rudder broke and the
vessel capsized.'' The area of the round-the-clock search had three-foot waves,
aggravated by winds of 18 knots, Mr. Gibson said. Visibility was reported to be
good and the water temperature was about 80 degrees today, Miss Flint said.

The Hamilton had halted the sailboat as part of the Haitian Migration
Interdiction Operation. The September 1981 agreement with Haiti allows the Coast
Guard to board vessels, interview passengers to determine their status and
return them to Haiti if they are found to be ''illegal migrants,'' Lieutenant
Simpson said.

Fate of Survivors


Paul Alexander, Haitian Consul-General in Miami, predicted that most of the
Haitians who survived the capsizing would be sent back to Haiti. ''That's the
usual procedure,'' he said.

But the Rev. Gerard Jean-Juste, a spokesman for the Haitian community in Miami,
pleaded with the United States Government to allow the survivors to enter the
United States.

Immigration officials in Miami say about 333 illegal aliens from Haiti entered
the United States through South Florida last year, a substantial decrease from
1980, when 15,093 Haitians were reported to have entered the country illegally.

Many of the Haitians contend they are political refugees fleeing the regime of
President Jean-Claude Duvalier. But the immigration service says they are
economic refugees leaving their island nation, the poorest in the Western
Hemisphere, to seek jobs in the United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              121 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 11, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section B; Page 2, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 241 words


Church Members Back SanctuaryforRefugees


The congregation of the Riverside Church voted yesterday to open the church as a
sanctuary for a family of illegal aliens fleeing political violence in El
Salvador, Guatemala or Haiti.

''We will begin planning now for welcoming a refugee family,'' Joan Bacchus,
associate director of communications for the interdenominational church, said
after the vote.

She said that ''more than two-thirds'' of 350 church members at a special
meeting yesterday voted for the measure. She estimated total church membership
at 3,000.

About 110 churches nationwide have declared themselves sanctuaries for refugees
fleeing violence in Central America. Last February, Riverside Church was host
for six Salvadoran illegal aliens who conducted a hunger strike to protest
United States policy in Central America and immigration restrictions against
Central American refugees.

Officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service have
warned leaders of the churches that they risk fines of up to $2,000 and five
years in prison for sheltering illegal aliens.

In an interview, the senior minister of Riverside, the Rev. William Sloane
Coffin, accused the Reagan Administration of having a double standard in its
handling of political refugees.

''If you are fleeing a Communist country, asylum is automatic,'' he said. ''It
is a fine religious tradition to call the Government to task.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              122 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

COUPLE TO KEEP RAFFLE HOUSE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 43, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 263 words

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo., June 23


A couple will be allowed to keep a house they won in a church drawing, even
though they were arrested as illegal aliens when their photograph was published
in a newspaper.

A church leader said Friday that the Mexican couple, Jose and Sylvia Carmona,
were overjoyed to hear the house was still theirs.

''They were just elated - they were off the ceiling,'' said the Rev. Robert
Frerking, pastor of the Lutheran Mission of the Good Shepherd who is a member of
the board of directors of Partners: People in Progress.

''They want that house, but they didn't think it would happen,'' Mr. Frerking
said. ''They put a lot of work into it. It's a dream they never thought would
come true.''

The directors of Partners: People in Progress voted Thursday night to allow the
Carmonas to keep the house even though they were arrested by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service when their picture appeared in The Kansas City Times last
week.

The picture was published after the Carmonas held an open house to show off the
work they had done.

The Carmonas will live in the house under a lease-to-buy arrangement and
Partners: People in Progress will retain title in case the family is deported in
August, Mr. Frerking said.

The Carmonas have become a symbol to the Hispanic community on Kansas City's
west side, he went on.

''There are a lot of illegal individuals living in this community,'' Mr.
Frerking said. ''The community has become concerned about what is going to
happen to them. The community takes care of its own. These people are living in
a survival mode.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              123 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 28, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CHURCHES AND U.S. CLASH ON ALIEN SANCTUARY

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 1306 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., June 27


Stacey Lynn Merkt, who has become something of a symbol in the conflict between
the Federal Government and the growing movement among American churches to aid
undocumented aliens, was sentenced today to two years of probation for
transporting three Salvadorans who had entered the country illegally.

The sentence was the first given to a member of the movement among church people
opposed to United States policy in Central America to provide sanctuary to
illegal aliens from the region.

Miss Merkt, 29 years old, called the sentence unexpectedly lenient. Nonetheless,
it was considered an ominous sign for the sanctuary movement.

The Administration says many of the participants in the movement are motivated
politically to undermine United States policy in Central America.

Members of many established churches say, however, that their efforts are
humanitarian acts to protect people from persecution, torture and death in their
homelands.

Church sources say more than 100 churches in the Southwest, the Middle West and
the New York area, and possibly as many as 140, are harboring and helping
Salvadorans.

The movement has been building for some time, but it was only recently that the
Immigration and Naturalization Service began to arrest some of its leaders. In
addition to Miss Merkt, who plans to appeal her conviction, at least two others
have been indicted in recent months.

So far the immigration agency has not raided any churches or church-run refugee
centers to arrest Salvadorans. Instead, agents have apprehended Salvadorans
after they leave the sites operated as sanctuaries.

Today at the Casa Oscar Romero, where Miss Merkt works, about 20 Salvadoran
refugees were living openly. The refugee center is in a white house in San
Benito operated by the Roman Catholic Diocese of nearby Brownsville.  The
sanctuary trend has been a source of growing concern to the Government. The
Administration has said that while it has granted political asylum to some
Salvadorans in this country, most are ''economic'' migrants seeking better job
opportunities, the motive the Government has attributed to most migrants
entering illegally from Mexico and other countries.

What makes these cases so difficult for the Government is that the sanctuary
concept has the backing of many church officials, including Bishop John J.
Fitzpatrick of the Diocese of Brownsville.

''We do not feel we are breaking any laws,'' said Hernan Gonzalez, the diocese's
director of Christian services. ''Service to refugees is something the church
has done since its inception. We have no choice but to assist them for
humanitarian reasons. No one denies the existence of death squads in El
Salvador. This is the closest point on American soil to El Salvador.''

A bill in Congress, which is opposed by the Administration, would grant what is
called ''extended voluntary departure status'' to Salvadoran refugees in this
country so they could legally live in the United States on the same temporary
basis that permits stays by refugees from Poland, Afghanistan and Lebanon.

Judge Sentences Violator


Today the growing dispute between the Government and the sanctuary movement
focused on a courtroom here. Federal District Judge Filemon B. Vela, in
pronouncing sentence on Miss Merkt, said: ''I know you are a person of high
principle, but violating the law is not the way to go.''

He spoke after Miss Merkt, convicted by a jury May 13, said she felt she broke
no law and acted only under ''Biblical mandates'' to extend her hand to the
suffering.

''We've already seen more than 40,000 deaths there,'' she told the judge,
referring to El Salvador, ''mostly all civilians killed by Government forces.
The Reagan Adminstration continues to support that Government, the Government
that creates the refugees.''

The church-run refuge where Miss Merkt works is in a quiet working-class section
of San Benito. Outside, a sign calls for a halt to American ''agression'' in
Central America. Inside, the refugees sleep in male and female dormitories.
Today, beneath a graceful mesquite tree behind the house, a group of nuns and
lay people held a prayer vigil after the sentencing.

Miss Merkt, a lay worker from Colorado, was arrested in February near McAllen,
Tex., while driving three Salvadorans to San Antonio. The Salvadorans are still
in the country awaiting deportation hearings.

Later, the director of Casa Romero, Jack Elder, 41, was arrested on charges of
taking three aliens to a bus station in Harlingen, Tex. He faces trial later
this year.

More Charges Filed


In Tucson, a Federal grand jury added four aiding-and-abetting charges Tuesday
to an earlier indictment of Philip M. Conger, arrested in March for transporting
four Salvadorans. Mr. Conger, 26, who heads the Tucson Ecumenical Council Task
Force on Central America, now faces a total of eight charges. He was arrested
near Nogales, Ariz., after Border Patrol agents found the Salvadorans in his
vehicle.

It was in Tuscon in March 1982 that the Southside United Presbyterian Church
began the nationwide sanctuary movement.

'Safe House' in New York


The network of aid to Central American refugees is growing rapidly, as
coalitions of human rights, solidarity and legal aid groups join the sancutuary
movement. Recently, the congregation of the Riverside Church in Manhattan
declared it an official safe house, one of several in the metropolitan area.

''The idea comes from the original Judeo-Christian concept of sanctuary, where
persons fleeing the law could go to places of worship and be protected,'' said
Marianne Lundy, a member of the sanctuary committee at Riverside.

Estimates of the number of Central American refugees in the New York area rages
from 40,000 to 70,000.

According to Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service in
Washington, 16,637 illegal aliens from El Salvador were apprehended last year,
up from 11,762 in 1980. He said that beween last October and April, political
asylum was granted to 249 Salvadorans, or about 3 percent of the 7,867 who
requested it. Mr. Jervis said 20 percent of entrants from all countries who seek
such status get it.



Discrimination Denied

Mr. Jervis denied the charge made by many in the sanctuary movement that these
figures represented political discrimination against refugees fleeing a country
allied with the United States. He said that all cases were judged individually.
''They are not looked at on a nationality basis,'' he said.

He also denied that the agency had begun to take special measures against
leaders of the sanctuary movement, saying that Miss Merkt and the others
arrested recently had simply been caught as a result of routine enforcement
measures.

At the State Department, which advises the immigration service on asylum cases,
Elliott Abrams, Assistant Secretary for Human Rights, also disputed suggestions
that the Government was politically motivated or that most Salvadorans who had
been apprehended would be persecuted if sent home. ''The fact is a very large
proportion of them are not refugees,'' he said. ''They are economic migrants.''

He said the State Department had investigated several hundred cases of deported
refugees and found no instances of torture or murder.

Members of the sanctuary movement have disputed State Department statements that
deported refugees are not persecuted.

Bills pending in Congress sponsored by Representative Joe Moakley, Democrat of
Massachusetts, and Senator Dennis DeConcini, Democrat of Arizona, would give
special status to fleeing Salvadorans. The Administration opposes those bills. A
similar provision is contained in the version of the comprehensive immigration
bill passed by the House. The Senate version of the bill does not include the
provision.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of supportors (page A16); photo of townspeople (page A16); photo
of Stacy Lynn Merkt (page A16); photo of Salvadoran refugees

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              124 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 6, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE SWISS KNOW HOW TO CONTROL BORDERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 289 words


To the Editor:


In a recent editorial (June 22) you argued that the outlook is promising for
making the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill work effectively. But the experience
of Switzerland - the only Western country to control its borders successfully -
suggests your optimism is unwarranted.

Like the supporters of Simpson- Mazzoli, the Swiss have recognized the
permeability of national frontiers and the need for internal controls to deter
foreign workers from trying to cross borders undetected. Like the U.S. Congress,
they have passed laws making it illegal for employers to hire such persons. In
sharp contrast to the Americans, however, the Swiss have never sought to use
employer sanctions as the main internal instrument for regulating immigration.
Rather, as documented by M. G. Clark of Cornell University, the Swiss have
adopted a multifaceted approach in which employer sanctions are reinforced by
complementary policies, including an effective national identification system, a
computerized alien registration bank, the use of local and regional authorities
to monitor possible undocumented aliens and, on the more positive side, the
strict enforcement of fair employment standards for all workers.  Swiss
immigration controls work because they are comprehensive.  Few Americans would
want to see so broad a program here, but if we are serious about ''regaining
control of our borders,'' some of the additional policies used by the Swiss are
inevitable. In the meantime, the half-measures represented by Simpson-Mazzoli
are unlikely to reduce illegal immigration significantly.

ARTHUR A. GOLDSMITH Assistant Professor of Management University of
Massachusetts Boston, June 26, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              125 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 9, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

WESTERN EUROPE SEEKS TO STEM TIDE OF ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By JAMES M. MARKHAM, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1633 words

DATELINE: WEST BERLIN, July 8


Harried by overextended welfare budgets, fear of crime and a whiff of xenophobia
in the political atmosphere, the Governments of Western Europe are struggling to
turn back a tide of illegal immigration.

To take one example, West Berlin is swamped by waves of third-world immigrants
that include Tamil tea pickers from Sri Lanka, teen-agers smuggled out of Iran
to evade the draft, war-weary Kurds from Beirut, unemployed Ashantis from
upcountry Ghana and Pakistani drug dealers.  And Poles, Czechoslovaks and other
refugees from Eastern Europe keep arriving as well.



Package Tours to Asylum

On special discount fares from Aeroflot, the Soviet airline, and Lot, the Polish
airline, the travelers from underdeveloped third world nations fly in groups
into East Berlin's Sch"onefeld Airport and, without visas, are admitted to East
Germany.

In a matter of hours, they take the subway to West Berlin - an open city - where
they report to the police, seeking political asylum.

The thousands who reach West Berlin, with an automatic claim on the indulgence
of the West German welfare state, are but one current of a wider flow of poor,
hungry and persecuted immigrants who are crashing the gates of Western Europe.



Number of Aliens Unknown

As in the United States, the police and immigration officials have no precise
idea of how many illegal aliens filter yearly into Western Europe and take up
residence.

With the possible exception of Britain, which as an island has a certain
advantage, the countries of Western Europe have not been particularly successful
in closing the doors on illegal immigrants.

Until the European economies went into slump, cheap foreign labor had been
welcome.

''Things have changed, and what was perfectly acceptable in the past is now a
burden,'' commented Jan van Hoogstraten, who heads the Bonn office of the
Intergovernmental Committee for Migration. ''But in Europe we haven't reached
the situation in the United States. There's no comparison with that 1,000-a-day
across the southern borders of the United States.''

The main entryways to Western Europe are its airports, which yearly draw
thousands of ''tourists'' from the third world, who overstay their visas, find
menial jobs and settle into precarious existences.

Charter flights bring people in bulk. Last year, after 1,000 Iranians arrived in
one day at Madrid's airport, the Spanish Government enacted a regulation
requiring Iranians to have visas, choking off one easy entry point to Western
Europe.

A minority of illegals arrive by more exotic and arduous routes. Many Moroccan
workers start in Gibraltar and find their way north through Spain. Christian
Assyrians often flee Iraq by foot across Turkey and slip into Greece over the
Evros River. Indians sometimes jump ship in Rotterdam. Professional human
smugglers frequently slip Zairians who have landed in Brussels across the French
border at night.

Once in Western Europe, the immigrants tend to move from south to north, from
the poorer and more tolerant Mediterranean countries to more prosperous welfare
states like West Germany and France, which also happen to be the places where
the outsiders have become especially resented. In France, the 11 percent showing
of the extreme right-wing National Front in last month's European elections was
partly attributed to a growing antipathy for foreigners.

One of the easiest accesses to Western Europe is West Berlin, which is
surrounded by Communist East Germany, 110 miles from the West German frontier.
Its status as a free and open city under the protection of the United States,
France and Britain means that West Berlin cannot shut its doors to anyone coming
from East Germany.

East Germans Turn Blind Eye

Making an exception to its strict entry procedures, the East German authorities
turn a blind eye to the thousands of third world travelers who land in
Sch"onefeld en route to West Berlin, knowing they will become an extra burden on
the city's capitalist system.

By demanding asylum from political persecution, however dubious their cases may
be, the new arrivals guarantee themselves lodging in hostels, three meals a day,
pocket money and, usually, a protracted stay while the courts resolve their
claims.

''Everything is O.K. Everything is very good,'' beamed Balendran Thillaibalam, a
newly-arrived 52-year-old Tamil from Sri Lanka, taking his lunch with two
compatriots at a refugee hostel here. ''They are very kindly giving us clothes
and they are serving us very well. We like this hotel.''

Mr. Thillaibalam, who said he had worked as a printer in Jaffna, maintained that
his reason for leaving his homeland was ''political, political.'' But he had
difficulty explaining why the Sri Lanka Government's purported persecution had
not extended to his wife and three children, whom he left behind.

West Berlin's Interior Ministry, asserting that 90 percent of those seeking
political asylum make fraudulant claims, takes a dim view of its population of
18,000 asylum-seekers. Officials say that networks in places like Ghana and Sri
Lanka orchestrate the flow of immigrants seeking asylum, swelling the city's
prostitute and drug-dealing underworld.

Tighten Immigration Laws

Like other countries, West Germany has tightened its laws on political asylum
and now bans immigrants seeking asylum from obtaining work permits during their
first two years in the country. These measures produced a drop in the number of
applicants for asylum from 107,818 in 1980 to 19,773 last year, 5,198 of whom
were allowed to stay.

But court appeals, independent court rulings and a longstanding policy of not
expelling anyone from an East European Communist country mean that only about 70
percent of those denied asylum are actually deported, according to the Interior
Ministry in Bonn. The ministry estimates that some 200,000 candidates turned
down in their request for asylum now live permanently in West Germany.

In January, to the consternation of the Interior Ministry, a court in M"unster
ruled that ''collective state persecution'' of Tamils existed in Sri Lanka,
implying that none could be denied asylum. In a matter of months, some 1,200
Tamils arrived at Sch"onefeld, and took the subway to West Berlin.  From West
Berlin, officials say, immigrants seeking asylum have little difficulty
obtaining forged passports, enabling them to travel to West Germany. Once inside
West Europe, they move easily from country to country. ''There are no borders in
Europe anymore,'' said an official in France.

France Offered Amnesty

In the summer of 1981 President Francois Mitterrand's Government sought to
regulate the situation of the estimated 400,000 illegal aliens in France by
offering an amnesty to illegal immigrants.

Some 150,000 responded to the Government's offer - most of them from France's
former colonies in northern Africa - and 131,000 were accepted as legal
residents. The rest remained underground.

France requires all residents to carry identity papers with them, permitting
police to make spot checks in subways and other public places. Visitors from
northern Africa must fill out a two-page immigration document - one half to be
reurned on their departure. Fines have been stiffened from $695 to $2,780 for
companies that hire illegal immigrants.

With the toughest legislation in Western Europe and stringent airport screening
procedures, Britain has made a determined and largely successful effort to halt
illegal immigration, while at the same time stepping up deportations and
tightening entry requirements even for some of its own nationals.

Five Categories of Citizens

The British Nationality Act, which came into force last year, created five
categories of British citizen - only one of which has the automatic and
permanent right to live in the country. There are 57 million of these British
citizens, and all but two million of them are white.

Excluded from the right to settle are Hong Kong's largely nonwhite population of
2.5 million and some 1.5 million ''overseas citizens'' - Indians, Malaysians and
others - who had become United Kingdom citizens when their homelands gained
independence. A sharp crackdown last year dropped the number of immigrants
accepted for settlement to 53,500, the lowest figure since controls on
Commonwealth immigration were first imposed in 1962.

In London, Fiona Mactaggart, general secretary of the Joint Council for the
Welfare of Immigrants, said that in the last 12 months more than half of
husbands and fiances applying from the Indian subcontinent to join their wives
or future wives in Britain have been refused entry.

''You've got women and children alone without any prospects of the husbands
getting here,'' said Mrs. Mactaggart. ''And a woman from the city here would not
have much of a life chasing cows in rural India.''

Mediterranean Less Attractive

Further south, higher rates of unemployment and less generous welfare systems
have made West Europe's Mediterranean countries less attractive to illegal
immigrants. In the 1970's, for example, some 60,000 Pakistanis were thought to
be working in Greece. Officials now put the figure at no more 300.

In Italy, Ethiopians, Somalians and Tunisians predominate in an illegal alien
population thought to number between 700,000 and 800,000. But many others, like
East Europeans seeking asylum, regard the country only as a stopping place on
their way to the United States or other destinations.

Some southern European ''guest workers'' have started drifting home after years
of employment in Scandinavia and West Germany. But there have been no major
shifts - in contrast to the 100,000 Turkish ''guest workers'' who this year are
expected to take cash incentives to leave West Germany for home.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of aliens at welfare office in West Berlin (page A4)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              126 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 15, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHURCH GROUP READY TO HELP IMMIGRANTS DOCUMENT RESIDENCY

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 836 words

DATELINE: EL PASO


At 8 A.M. on June 21, the day after the House passed a sweeping immigration
bill, Luis Vellarde arrived at his office and found more than 150 illegal aliens
lined up outside the door.

''They didn't understand the process,'' said Mr. Vellarde, the director of the
Southwest Catholic Conference Immigration and Refugee Service. The agency serves
nine states from this border city, which is a major crossing point for
undocumented aliens from Mexico.

''All they heard is that amnesty had been approved. They wanted to know, am I
eligible, and where do I sign up.''

Help With Documentation


The aliens learned that the act was not yet law. But with a staggering number of
people looking for legal status, Mr. Vellarde's office and other private
agencies are preparing to help if and when the provisions are enacted.

Mr. Vellarde said, ''The church will be very much involved as one of the
national voluntary agencies assisting those people.''

His service would help people document how long they have lived in the United
States. It also could lessen the fears they might have if they were going
straight to the Government.

Versions of the bill have passed the House and Senate but they vary
significantly, especially about how long an alien must have resided in the
United States to apply for amnesty.

Those legislative differences must be resolved in a conference committee. Then
the measure will be considered again by both houses before going to the
President for his signature or his veto.

Network in Parishes


''We have already been planning as long as a year ago,'' said Mr. Vellarde,
''with the bishops' office in Washington to set up a diocesan structure for
legalization.

''We would help coordinate it, putting most of our efforts into the network of
the parishes, particularly where we know the illegals are living.''

The legislation attempts to regain control of the problem of illegal
immigration, essentially in two ways.

One is to make immigration less attractive by making it illegal for employers to
hire aliens without proper documentation. That would presumably remove the major
incentive for illegal entry into this country.

The other is to grant amnesty to aliens who have been in this country illegally
for a certain period.

The two bills differ in the time an alien must have resided here to qualify for
amnesty. The Senate version would require continuous residence since Jan. 1,
1980; the House, since Jan. 1, 1982.

Millions of Aliens Involved


There are possibly six million undocumented aliens in this country, and the
number ultimately eligible for amnesty would depend on what cutoff date was
adopted.

Even under the more restrictive Senate version, as many as 2.3 million people
might apply for legal status, creating a staggering backlog of cases for review.

The assistance of church groups could streamline the process, Mr. Vellarde
observed. But more importantly, in his view, it would alleviate some of the
fears of the aliens. For one thing, if initial contact were through the church,
those with inadequate documentation would not automatically be exposed to
rejection and possible deportation.

For many ''illegals,'' documention could be difficult.

Under current plans, those applying for legal residence would be able to
demonstrate the length of their stay through a variety of means. Mr. Vellarde
said his organization had been advising those who plan to apply to begin
gathering documentation.

How to Document


''They have already been told six months ago of the possibility of this thing
sailing, and we told them we strongly suggest that they get together such things
as rent and utility receipts, school records of children, things that would be
hard to alter.'' Other evidence might be dated pay stubs, medical records, even
traffic citations.

''We told them not to rely on affidavits of neighbors or friends because that
would be self-serving and very easily obtainable,'' he said.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service, which would administer the complex
amnesty program, has indicated it would consider an assortment of documentation,
perhaps rent receipts in conjunction with pay stubs.

But because they are illegal, undocumented aliens are often officially
invisible. Often they are paid and make payments in cash. And what documentation
they have might be under an assumed name, or several names.  Great numbers are
not apt to have such things as rent receipts. In Houston, for example, a
25-year-old Hispanic man said that he had been in this country illegally for
eight years and that he lived with 15 others like himself in a seven-room house,
each paying $30 a week in rent. Such transactions are almost always in cash.

Mr. Vellarde forecasts that ''it is going to be very difficult, number one, for
us to put the packets together for these people, and then there is going to be a
great deal of discretion in making a decision by the immigration service.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              127 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 17, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

ALONG RIO GRANDE, THE LAW RUNS INTO REALITY: NO BARRIER

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1533 words


In Matamoros, people say workers will cross the border for better pay in the
United States new law or no new law. Page B5.







BROWNSVILLE, Tex., July 12 - Probably nowhere would the immigration bill moving
through Congress have more subtle, complex and uncertain effects than in cities
like this one, where the distinction between the United States and Mexico
becomes a blur.

The economic and social fabric of this city of 89,000 people, which hugs the Rio
Grande near the point where the river flows into the Gulf of Mexico, is tightly
woven into that of its larger Mexican neighbor, Matamoros.

Neither town could survive easily without the other, or without the constant
traffic across the river, both legal and illegal. The Rio Grande is a border but
it is not a barrier.

In Brownsville, the population is 85 percent Mexican-American, English is seldom
heard on the streets and the usual laws of men and economics do not seem to
apply.

Here, it is hard to say who is an alien and who is not. As a result, the
immigration bill, which would grant legal status to some illegal aliens and
deter new ones by penalizing their employers, has brought out the most complex
of emotions in Brownsville.

''Something has to be done about the illegal aliens,'' said George E. Borrego,
36-year-old owner of the Don Quixote men's clothing shop. It is just a block
from the bridge that brought customers from Matamoros until the peso started its
fall, from 25 to a dollar two years ago to 200 today.

It's a Paradox'

''But it's hard for me to say too much bad about them,'' he went on. ''I've had
relatives who came here illegally and made their place. I am of Mexican descent.
It's my raza - my race - you're talking about. It's a paradox.''

The bill has met almost unanimous opposition here as another example of
Washington's insensitivity to the special realities of the border. ''I don't
think the Government has looked at the repercussions,'' said Kenneth J. Lieck,
the city manager.

''You are going to see elected officials going to Washington and saying it is
causing problems and seeking money,'' he said. ''We are way down here at the end
of the world. Congress does not know what's going on here.''

On the one hand, legal residents resent Mexicans who, they say, commute daily to
take jobs at lower wages and increase the tax burden by putting their children
in schools and using food stamps, medical and welfare services.

On the other hand, many of their own relatives in Matamoros do this and most of
Brownsville's middle-class families depend economically on having illegal,
live-in maids at $50 a week so both husbands and wives can work.

Vital to Farms and Shrimping

Moreover, local farmers and shrimp boat operators contend they cannot survive
without the Mexicans.

Brownsville, the nearest city to the Mexican interior, has become a major
crossing point for people seeking work, giving the city's motto, ''Crossroads of
the Hemisphere,'' an ironic if unintended aptness. However, with 6,000
unemployed, officials say most of the newcomers quickly move north for better
job opportunities.

The Brownsville economy is heavily affected by the daily legal and illegal
influx from Matamoros.

Consider, for example, Jesus Chuy, a 29-year-old caterer and bartender at the
Fort Brown Hotel. He is a Mexican citizen who holds a green card allowing him to
work and reside legally in Brownsville. However, he lives across the river in
Matamoros because it is cheaper there. His mother is a Mexican citizen, living
in Matamoros. His father, a retired mechanic, is an American citizen living in
Brownsville. A brother is a policeman in Matamoros, but his four children attend
parochial school in Brownsville.

Another brother, a carpenter, lives in Matamoros, works in Brownsville and has
three children here in parochial schools. His wife has no papers to work in the
United States. A sister was born and educated in Brownsville and is a citizen
but lives in Mexico.

One Large Community'

''The river is supposed to divide us, but we are really one large community of
500,000,'' said Mayor Emilio A. Hernandez, son of a Mexican-born father and
American-born mother.  There is disagreement on whether the daily influx of
workers from Matamoros helps or hurts Brownsville.

Thousands hold green cards and have jobs quite legally at Levi's, Haggar and
other plants. Others have crossing cards permitting them only to shop here but,
also have jobs, in downtown shops, at the port and elsewehere.

Still others, people with no credentials, simply wade the river daily, sometimes
with lunch pails, and they go home at night.

''We have illegal aliens working here and they are not unskilled braceros,''
said City Commissioner Antonio N. Zavaleta, an anthropologist who directs the
Border Research Institute at Texas Southmost College. ''They are carpenters,
welders, cabinet makers and they are taking jobs from our low-income
Mexican-American people. Money is flowing out of Brownsville and into Matamoros
and that is awful.''

John Ramirez, for example, is an American, a union electrician who has had to
leave Brownsville and his family to find work in Corpus Christi. At a union
scale of $10.50 an hour, his wife, Oralia, said, Mr. Ramirez cannot compete with
unlicensed electricians from Matamoros willing to work for less than $3.50 an
hour. ''It's not fair - my husband has been laid off for 15 months,'' she said,
echoing a complaint often heard here.

Yet Mayor Hernandez, a used car dealer and developer, says that he has never, in
nearly five years as Mayor, heard a constituent complain about losing work to
illegals.

Illegals Man the Shrimp Boats

Up to half the crew members working on shrimp boats out of Brownsville are
illegal aliens, according to David Eymard, owner of Trans Gulf Trawlers, who is
president of the Texas Shrimp Association.

The work is seasonal, he said, and a crew member can make $6,000 to $10,000 a
year. That is not enough to attract Americans but it is a small fortune to
Mexicans. ''At bumper times we do not have enough legal Americans,'' he said.
Yes, Mr. Eymard went on, the Federal authorities sometimes board the ships and
arrest the illegal aliens, but he added, ''There are many more to be had.''

Similarly, Mexican maids are an important underpinning of the Brownsville
economy. A business executive here has employed Maria for eight years, since she
was 19 years old. As a result, his wife has taken a part-time sales job. Maria
earns $60 a week plus board, and on that she helps support a large family across
the river.

Used Car Sales Important

Anyone who doubts that the welfare of Brownsville depends on Matamoros need only
talk to Mayor Hernandez. When the peso collapsed, he saw nearly three-quarters
of his used car business vanish overnight.

Similarly, Mr. Borrego had to lay off 7 of 11 employees at his clothing shop.

On the other hand, Mexicans are considered a major drain on Brownsville's public
services, particularly the schools. Under a Supreme Court ruling, local
districts must educate children of illegal residents. Raul A. Busteiro Jr.,
superintendent of the Brownsville Independent School District, notes that there
are 31,000 pupils in his schools, which serve a city of only 89,000 people,
evidence that the taxpayers are educating many illegal aliens.

Complaints of Welfare Abuse

The illegal aliens also use health, food stamp, welfare and other services to
which they are not entitled. This is particularly troublesome to people like
Celina Serrata, a legal resident who is a Cameron County employee and mother of
seven. She recalls having to go on welfare for a month when she was divorced a
few years ago, and she met Mexicans in the welfare office who had learned to get
into the system.

''I'm for charity,'' she said. ''But how much can I help without hurting my own
family.''

The ironies of the situation are summed up well by Eva Garcia. She is a
62-year-old retired garment worker who lives in the Southmost barrio, a
native-born American who speaks not a word of English.

Yet she speaks proudly of her sons in the Army and Air Force. She and her family
have paid their dues, she said, and pay high rents and utility bills while
illegal Mexicans lie to get food stamps and other services.

She believes that amnesty should be granted to those here illegally who have
established themselves and pay their taxes but that sanctions should be applied
against employers to discourage others from taking jobs from Americans like her.


Job Discrimination Feared

There is wide fear here that strict sanctions would result in job discrimination
against Mexican-Americans.

But the common view here is that the bill, if enacted, cannot be enforced. It
enforced, according to this viewpoint, it would be more damaging than helpful to
the border areas.

''The border is not going to go away - they are not going to stop coming,'' said
Professor Zavaleta. ''We've got ways to break the law more efficiently here. We
are forced into violating the law to support our economy.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of George E. Borrego (page B5); photo of people leaving
Brownsville, Tex. (page B5); map of Rio Grande

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              128 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 25, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

ALIENS BILL DRAWS CRITICISM AT U.S.-MEXICO GOVERNORS' PARLEY

BYLINE: By ROBERT REINHOLD

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 801 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., July 24


The Governors of the four American and six Mexican states along the 2,000-mile
border between the two countries convened here this week, and all except George
Deukmejian of California said they opposed a comprehensive immigration bill that
is now before Congress.

Their gathering, a regular meeting to discuss common problems on the permeable
border, came as Congress prepared to resume deliberations on the much-debated
bill, which is designed to stem the flow of illegal immigrants by imposing
sanctions on their American employers. Congress is attempting to resolve
differences between differing versions passed by the House and the Senate.

But the perception in Washington is far different from that along the border
where most of the migration occurs. While publicly expressing respect for the
American legislative process, the Mexican Governors uniformly reflected their
national Government's view that the bill might result in injustices to
''undocumented'' workers in this country and exacerbate Mexico's economic
troubles. The bill is sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.

''We, Mexicans, consider that the undocumented workers have all the rights to
receive the same treatment that the Constitution and the laws of the United
States grant to its citizens regarding human and labor rights,'' said Gov.
Emilio Martinez Manautou of Tamaulipas, adding that the Mexican Government would
act to ''prevent any violation of the right inherent to their human condition as
well as that as workers.''

For different reasons, three of the United States Governors, all Democrats in
states with large Hispanic populations, also denounced the bill. Bruce Babbitt
of Arizona, the host, said he believed it would result in discrimination against
American citizens of Mexican descent trying to obtain work.

Mark White of Texas said, ''I support the need for reform of immigration policy,
but I do not believe Simpson- Mazzoli offers adequate protection of Hispanic job
seekers.'' Toney Anaya of New Mexico agreed.

Alone in dissent was Governor Deukmejian, a Republican, who asserted, ''We
really have lost control of our borders.'' The bill, he said, was not perfect,
but was the ''best vehicle'' yet devised. He disputed suggestions that
Mexican-Americans would suffer discrimination in its enforcement, asserting that
employers would have to ask all employees for proper identification.

The conference here also dealt with a wide variety of other border issues,
including trade, drug traffic, public health, pollution, border crossings and
cultural links. It was the fourth such meeting since 1980.

This year's meeting took on added significance not only because of the pending
immigration bill but because this is a Presidential election year in the United
States. Hispanic advisers to both President Reagan and his Democratic
challenger, Walter F. Mondale, were here, as was a contingent from the United
States Embassy in Mexico City.

If there was full agreement on anything, it was that the United States had a
responsiblity to help improve the Mexican economy as a means of easing migration
pressures. ''It is inconceivable that the United States should have trade
policies that discriminate against Mexico while treating better dozens of third
world countries that are only fractionally as important to us,'' said Mr.
Babbitt.

At a concluding news conference Monday night, the 10 officials agreed that their
two national Governments should negotiate a bilateral trade agreement extending
the privileges of the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs to Mexico without
compelling Mexico to ratify the international agreement and accept its rules.
This, the Governors said, would lower barriers to the sale of Mexican products
in the United States. They also called on Congress to renew the Generalized
System of Preferences, which gives special consideration to certain Mexican
exports. The system is scheduled to expire next year.

As for immigration, Mr. Babbitt said the Mexican Governors ''graciously did not
press their case'' in the face of Mr. Deukmejian's support for the bill. But all
10 did agree on these four points:


- Because immigration is a bilateral issue involving large economic, social and
human effects, consultations should be held between the two Governments before
any policy is put into effect.


- Any new policy should be carried out in a manner that assures that there will
be no discrimination against people of Hispanic descent.


- Any policy must assure social justice, civil rights and human treatment of all
people, ''irrespective of their juridical or legal status.''


- Both nations should cooperate in research into the causes of ''undocumented
migration.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              129 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 17, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS: IMPACT IN CITY IS UNCERTAIN

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 2009 words


Most of the illegal aliens in New York City have jobs and earn as much as legal
aliens, and most pay Social Security taxes and some income taxes, according to
many immigration specialists.

Researchers also believe that the presence of a vast illegal population in New
York tends to keep wages low and working conditions poor and that many illegal
aliens have successfully and fraudulently enrolled in public-assistance
programs.

As a result, the role of illegal aliens in the city's economy is a mixture of
often-conflicting benefits and drains that has defied systematic analysis by
economists and immigration experts.

Most government agencies, sensitive to charges of discrimination, are reluctant
to single out particular ethnic and racial groups and, therefore, data based on
national origins or even places of birth is not readily available.

'A Child Is a Child'


The Board of Education, probably the agency most used by illegal aliens, asks
for birth certificates only as proof of a child's age. The board gets state aid
for illegal aliens, as it does for all students.

''A child is a child, and we don't investigate whether he is here illegally or
not,'' a board spokesman, Gloria Lesser, said. ''It's not an issue.''

A four-year-old suit by the city and state against the Census Bureau contends
that minority groups, including illegal aliens, were undercounted in the 1980
Census, depriving the city and state of a rightful share of Congressional
representation and Federal revenue sharing. A decision is expected in Federal
court by the end of the year.

There is no agreement on the number of illegal aliens in the city. There are
200,000 according to one analysis of the 1980 Census, 500,000 according to many
academicians and the New York district office of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, and 750,000 according to the City Planning Commission.

The Census Bureau has said that if there was undercounting, at least $9.40 in
revenue sharing would be lost for each person not counted. The city and state
argue that the estimate should be more than doubled.

Loss of $2.8 Million a Year

Even if the immigration service estimate is correct and the city's is too high,
an undercounting of 300,000 would mean that New York is losing a minimum of $2.8
million a year in revenue sharing.

To help identify trends among all foreign- born people in New York - legal as
well as illegal - the Planning Commission began a study a year ago that it
expects to complete next year.

A Planning Commission memo last March on the status of the study highlights the
difficulties of the task.

''City agencies do not seem to have standardized policies about reporting
illegals to the I.N.S., and there is no consistency in how these issues are
handled,'' it said. ''Similarly, the I.N.S. has no hard and fast policy on the
types of cases it will prosecute and those it will ignore.''

Last July, Mayor Koch created an Office of Immigrant Affairs at the Planning
Commission to complete the study and coordinate services for immigrants. The
head of the office, Elizabeth Bogen, said: ''There's been a laissez-faire
attitude to studying illegal aliens, because people in the power structure tend
to believe they don't cause much of a problem and because the issue is such a
political hot potato that discussing it would cause more harm than good. That's
why we've decided to study the impact of all aliens, without getting hung up on
the issue of illegals per se.''

Despite the absence of a comprehensive survey, several conclusions about the
cost-benefit ratio of illegal aliens can be made, according to immigration
specialists.

Comparison With Other Workers


A recent Gallup poll found that most Americans believed illegal aliens ended up
on welfare and raised tax burdens. That view is disputed by almost all
immigration specialists, who say most illegal aliens have jobs.

A study by New York University in 1981 on immigrants from the Dominican Republic
in three city neighborhoods found that almost all legal and illegal immigrants
worked and that they found jobs within a week after they started to look for
them.

The study also found that there was almost no difference in job experience or
income levels of aliens based on legal status and that most aliens earned at
least the minimum wage.

''Illegals are generally working people, and the notion that they cost society a
great deal is a myth,'' said Glauco Perez, a Ph.D. candidate in political
science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and executive assistant for
policy and program development at the New York City Human Resources
Adminstration.

Wages in Restaurants


Other academics say that well over half the illegal population pays Social
Security and Federal, state and local income taxes. They say that although
illegal aliens are helping to pay for Social Security, most will never receive
the benefits.

A study this year by Thomas Bailey, a research associate at Columbia University,
based on interviews with 90 New York restaurant owners and managers, found
legality made little difference in what immigrant restaurant workers were paid,
although they were ''willing to take restaurant work at wages well below those
that would be acceptable to large numbers of native- born adult male blacks.''

Some economists say that low wages keep labor costs and retail prices down,
which in turn allow industries facing severe competition to survive. They say
that without low-wage immigrant labor, the garment industry, for example, would
have to move many of its operations overseas to remain competitive, and dozens
of ethnic restaurants would have to go out of business.

Because illegal aliens are willing to work hard and not complain, the economists
said, they tend to be a favored work force in a number of industries.

'Willingness to Work'


In a study of Southern California in the 1970's, Thomas Muller, an economist
with the Urban Institute, a nonprofit research organization in Washington that
studies social and political issues, found that employers preferred undocumented
workers for their ''willingness to work under poorer conditions to those
acceptable to most Americans, low absenteeism and solid work habits.''

It is generally accepted that illegal aliens have to work more for less,
especially if their employers are aware of their illegal status.

''I have a good boss, I work hard, I don't complain and I don't have any
problems,'' said a 23-year-old Salvadoran man who packs vegetables for the
minimum wage, $3.35 an hour, in Brooklyn.

Many illegal aliens function just like citizens - not only working and paying
taxes, but also getting promotions.

One 26-year-old woman from India, who arrived here in 1979 and paid an American
man $3,000 to marry her, has been living in the United States illegally ever
since the Immigration Service discovered her fraudulent marriage.

She has used a valid Social Security card - issued to her only for the purpose
of opening a bank account - to get a variety of jobs, including a clerk in a
jewelry store, a laundry worker, a dishwasher in a bakery and a counter person
at McDonald's and Burger King. Some of her employers paid her as little as $2 an
hour. Many aliens misuse their cards in this way.

'Grateful for America'


She now does word processing at a New York brokerage concern for $16,000 a year.

''Every year I file my tax return, just like everyone else,'' she said. ''I'm
grateful for America, for giving me the chance to stand on my own two feet.''

She used her own name, Social Security number and her file number for an
application for permanent residence status that she received when she and her
husband were first interviewed by the Immigration Service. Neither the
Immigration Service nor the I.R.S. has made cases like hers a top priority. No
effort is now being made to deport her.

Illegal aliens cannot avoid sales taxes or indirect property taxes, such as
those figured in rental charges. But many are paid their salaries in cash ''off
the books'' and never pay income tax.  ''Living in New York takes big money,''
said a 32-year-old South Korean graduate student, who cannot legally work on his
student visa. He supplements money he receives from his family by working at an
Oriental publication for $4 an hour in cash.

''I feel guilty working and not paying taxes, but morally I have the right to
exist and work while I'm studying in New York,'' he said.

Illegal aliens are ineligible for public assistance programs, and only sketchy
estimates of their fraudulent use exist.

Effect on Assistance


In a study based on interviews with nearly 800 apprehended illegal aliens, David
S. North, a political scientist with the New TransCentury Foundation in
Washington, said that illegal aliens made substantial but below- average use of
tax-supported programs and that legal immigrants made average use of them.

It is somewhat easier for illegal aliens to receive unemployment benefits than
public assistance. Most workers whose employers pay them legally are covered by
unemployment insurance, and many aliens belong to unions that help them in
applying for unemployment.

Illegal aliens have the greatest impact on the health-care and education
systems. They try to avoid going to private doctors because of the expense and
tend to rely on public hospitals, particularly emergency and delivery rooms, for
care. The City Health and Hospitals Corporation estimates that unreimbursed
inpatient care of illegal aliens in New York costs $28 million a year.

''I try never to get sick,'' said the young woman from India. ''When I need
medical care, I ask a friend who's married to a doctor to get a prescription for
me.''

Competition for Resources


Voluntary agencies said there was little they could do to help aliens. ''Once in
a while, we can help with a doctor or even an operation, but there's nothing we
can do if the alien needs $400 a day inpatient hospital care,'' said the Rev.
Peter Zendzian of the Catholic Migration and Refugee Office of the Diocese of
Brooklyn.

A 1979 study by the Federal Labor Department that is often cited by the
Immigration Service estimated that one in five jobs held by illegal aliens -
among a total of 1.2 million jobs - could be filled by unemployed Americans.

''Illegal aliens detract from the city because they are competing for jobs and
benefits and putting a drain on social services,'' said Lawrence Paretta,
assistant director for investigations of the Immigration Service's New York
office. ''I've never bought the argument that that no one else will do the work
- if the wages and conditions are good.''

In the last 10 months, through various investigations, the district office said,
it has saved more than $5 million in fraudulent unemployment, student loan,
Medicaid and public-housing payments.

To prevent social-service payments to illegal aliens, the Immigration Service
last year began Project SAVE - which stands for Systematic Alien Verification
for Entitlement - in Colorado, Illinois and California.

It is a cooperative, computerized effort between the Immigration Service, other
Federal organizations and state agencies. So far, the three states have sought
to uncover only unemployment fraud, by carefully checking all aliens applying
for aid to make sure they are eligible.

New York will be among the next five states to join the program.

When all 50 states are in the program, the Immigration Service predicts a
combined saving of $10.7 billion at the end of two years, an estimate that most
immigration researchers feel is too high.

Researchers also believe that as long as the economy is expanding and illegal
aliens can get jobs, undocumented workers will continue to pour into New York.

''This is our country's version of Europe's guest-worker policy,'' Mr. Muller
said. ''Not only the supply is here, but the demand, too.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Elizabeth Bogen (page B7)

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              130 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 28, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ILLEGAL ALIENS DESCRIBE LIFE IN SOCIETY'S SHADOWS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1172 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 27


To Hector and Maria, the major immigration bill that failed in Congress earlier
this month was of little concern because their arrival in the United States was
too recent to qualify them for its amnesty provisions.

Whatever Congress decided, they knew, they and their two children would have
only two choices: return to Mexico or continue a furtive, fearful existence.
Like some six million others in the United States, the latest working estimate,
they are ''undocumented'' aliens.

If illegal aliens were considered a minority group, they would be the
third-largest in the United States, behind black and Hispanic people.  But they
are officially invisible.

For perhaps three million of them, the immigration bill would have meant a new
life in the open and eventually, if all conditions were met, full citizenship.
But when Congress went home without approving the measure they faced, as before,
an indefinite future.

Unlike citizens, the ''undocumented'' have no papers to prove their identity, at
least none that are legitimate. They have no birth certificates, no resident
alien cards, no passports, no Social Security numbers. They usually have no
fixed address and no bank account. Many have no driver's license, no credit
card, no charge account and no medical record, not even names that are their
own.

The accounts that follow tell of real ''illegals,'' but because their lives are
clouded by the fear of apprehension and deportation, they have sometimes used
names they chose to match their fraudulent papers.



Hector became an illegal alien in March 1981, when he was 29 years old. He
slipped across the border at Laredo and paid smugglers $350 to take him to
Houston. Hector and 84 others made the trip in a horse van.

Several months later he paid $850 to have Maria and their children, then 4 and 8
years old, join him. Since then they have made a shaky but better life for
themselves, living in a rented house trailer, paying $225 a month, and equipping
it with a color television set and other appliances.

Hector earns $4.12 an hour as a church janitor and is looking for a second job
as a painter. Maria earns $30 a day as a maid.

This spring Hector returned to Mexico for his mother's funeral. His
mother-in-law came back with him, floating in an inner tube as he swam the Rio
Grande. They paid smugglers $1,000 to take them to Houston. Hector borrowed the
money from friends and is still repaying it.

Despite the problems of living in secret, Hector and Maria say their life here
is a world apart from the unrelenting poverty they knew in Mexico, where bare
necessities often seemed a luxury and there was often too little to eat.

''When we were living there,'' said Hector, ''sometimes my kids' shoes, they are
awful. I have to save before I can buy some new shoes for them. Now, when they
say they need shoes, I say, 'O.K., let's go buy them.' ''

Because of the fear of deportation, Hector has often been exploited by
employers, working 90-hour weeks for $225 as a trash collector for a private
company. He also avoids places where other Hispanic people congregate for fear
of an immigration raid. He tells friends he is an American citizen from
California.

For some time he hoped that would become the truth. Now he knows is impossible,
at least for some time.

His only hope, he admits, is to lie, to find fraudulent documents saying he is a
legal resident.

''For my children to go to college here,'' he said in halting English, ''I will
try all ways to be legal.''



Sierra Lopez, who slipped across the border and came to Houston eight years ago,
when he was 16, had high hopes for the bill sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson
and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, which would probably have offered him
temporary legal status and an eventual chance for citizenship.

Mr. Lopez, who is knowledgeable, was not concerned about the bill's requirement
that, to become a citizen, he would have to demonstrate that he was proficient
in English or was learning it and had or was acquiring a fundamental
understanding of American history and government.

He is fiercely eager for special training.

Mr. Lopez, who had worked as a construction laborer, has been blind since
February 1980, when two men in a passing car, possibly because of some perceived
affront in traffic, fired several shots at an automobile in which he was riding.
One of the bullets hit Mr. Lopez in the right eye and severed an optic nerve,
blinding him.

Since then he has sought help in vain, living with the assistance of charties
and church groups.

''The thing I want most is job training,'' he said. But because he acknowledges
he was an illegal alien, he has been refused admission to publicly financed
programs for the blind. Under the provisions of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, he
would probably have qualified for vocational training.

But even without such help, he said, ''I can't return to Mexico.'' ''A sighted
person can't make it,'' he said. ''A blind person is considered as a piece of
meat to be sent into the streets begging.''



Phillipe, who is 25 years old and says he has lived in Houston for eight years,
expresses little fear of being apprehended and deported.''I can run,'' he says.
But he concedes he has had bad work experiences with employers because, as an
illegal worker, he has no channel to complain of abuses.

''They tell you they pay $3 an hour,'' he said. ''At the end of the week they
tell you, 'I'm only going to pay you $2 an hour. Take it if you want.' '' He
once worked a week for an employer who refused to pay him at all, he said.

Like many other illegal residents, Phillipe, who earns $3.50 an hour as a
painter, sends money to his family in Mexico, and he flies to Mexico City each
year to visit, recrossing the border on foot at Laredo or Brownsville.

Last year, he said, he sent only $300 home. ''My family needs money,'' he said,
''but you need money here, too.''



Jose, 30, is one of four illegal aliens cramped into a three-room apartment in
North Houston. The rent for the apartment, one of four in an old two- story
house, is $60 a week. Three of the men work as housepainters, and the fourth is
looking for a job. None speak English.

Jose, a painter, makes $7 an hour and says his life here is good.

Through an interpreter, Jose said he had been in this country eight years,
entering on a student visa to study electronics. When the visa expired, he
stayed on.

Jose said he would like legal status but hopes someday to return to Mexico,
which he regards as home. He sends $400 a month to his family there, but has
returned to Mexico only once, for a week.

Jose has no car and no driver's license. He has usually lived in rooms or
apartments provided by his employers, and he has no rent or utility receipts. He
does have some hospital bills, he remembers, because he was badly beaten shortly
after he arrived, and employment insurance paid for his treatment. Beyond that,
his past is invisible.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of illegal aliens in Houston

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              131 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 23, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CHURCH MEMBERS WILL PRESS SANCTUARY MOVEMENT

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 24, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Jan. 22


The woman, who is in her 30's and has four young children, does not want to give
her name.

''I'll probably go to jail sooner or later,'' she said ''I just want it put off
as long as I can.''

As she talks, two of her children, the boy about 4 years old and the girl 3,
clatter through the door of the church sanctuary where she is talking of her
efforts to help illegal aliens she believes are political refugees, and she
scoops them into her arms and laughs.

''Part of the reason I do it is I'm a mother,'' she said ''and I would want
another mother to shelter my children from a war.''

The woman is one of about 200 church workers in Tucson and southern Arizona who
regularly transport Guatemalan and Salvadoran refugees across the Mexican border
into the United States, find them food and shelter, and hide them from the
immigration authorities, often in the churches themselves.

'Sanctuary for the Oppressed'

They make no secret of the fact that they help refugees. Outside the old,
mission-style Tucson Southside Presbyterian Church there is a sign that reads,
''Esta es el Sanctuario para los Oprimidos de Centro America'' (''This is the
sanctuary for the oppressed of Central America.'')

On Jan. 14, the Government announced that 16 people, including the pastor of
Southside Presbyterian, the Rev. John M. Fife; two Roman Catholic priests and
three nuns, had been indicted on 71 counts of conspiracy to smuggle illegal
aliens into the United States and related charges.

About 60 aliens named as co-conspirators but not indicted were arrested over the
next weekend, and the Government has also named some 25 other people, many of
them church lay workers who sheltered or transported the aliens, as additional
unindicted co-conspirators.

It is expected that some of these will be asked to testify. They could face the
possibility of jail sentences for contempt if they refused.

Despite the Government crackdown, many of those involved in transporting and
hiding the refugees say they will continue to do so. This Wednesday and Thursday
members of the Sanctuary movement are to meet in this city to discuss the
implications of the crackdown.

Brought Refugees to Tucson

The young mother, who was not among those indicted, said she had transported
Central American refugees ''a couple dozen times,'' from single men and women
traveling alone to as many as 11 people whom she said she had brought to Tucson
in a large van.

She said she had never brought anyone across the border herself, instead picking
them up on the American side.

''Just on this side,'' she explained. ''There are times when I was supposed to
bring people across, working with a priest or someone on the other side, but I
never had to.''

''I always travel with between one and four of my own children,'' she said.
''It's part of the camouflage.''

Although she said she was ''physically sick'' at the thought of going to jail -
the penalty for transporting illegal aliens is up to five years in prison for
each instance - she said she would ''definitely'' continue.

''Probably more than ever,'' she said, ''because a lot of people will be out of
commission in the near future because of the indictments.''

'Housewives, Elderly, Retirees'

''The main people who do the runs,'' those who actually smuggle and transport
the aliens once inside this country, ''are housewives, elderly people,
retirees,'' said Timothy Nonn, a seminary student who is one of the unindicted
co- conspirators.

Mr. Nonn is one of the organizers of the Tucson sanctuary movement, which has
spread to some 200 churches around the country and has been endorsed by major
church groups that include the Conference of the United Methodist Church and the
Peace Fellowship of the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church.

In Tucson, 10 Protestant churches, three Roman Catholic churches and a Jewish
synagogue have signed a covenant of assistance to the sanctuary movement,
although only about a half- dozen have actually housed refugees on the church
premises.

''Some are asking volunteers to house refugees, provide food, funds, jobs,
spiritual support,'' said Mr. Nonn. In some congregations, refugees are actually
sheltered.

Very few refugees stay in Tucson, with most going to resettlement centers
elsewhere, he said.

''Los Angeles is a major area,'' he continued. ''They probably have over a
couple hundred thousand Central Americans there, and San Francisco has perhaps
60,000.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              132 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
Friction BuildsOn Sanctuary

BYLINE: By Michael Wright, Katherine Roberts and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 393 words


The Government's efforts to stop religious groups from smuggling Central
American refugees into the United States ran into an unsympathetic jury and a
group of hostile Lutheran bishops last week. Dozens of church workers and scores
of illegal immigrants joined to pledge that they would continue to run an
underground railroad into the Southwest.

While about 1,000 sanctuary workers and illegal aliens gathered in a synagogue
in Tucson, Ariz., to condemn United States policy in Guatemala and El Salvador,
a Roman Catholic lay worker, Jack Elder, went on trial in Texas on charges that
he had transported three Salvadorans 30 miles from a halfway house to a bus
station in violation of Federal immigration law. A jury in Corpus Christi took
less than two hours to decide that Mr. Elder's work did not further the illegal
journey of the undocumented aliens in this country. They did not rule on the
broader questions raised by Mr. Elder and others in the church-based sanctuary
movement that they have acted out of religious conviction to protect victims of
political persecution. It is the Government, the sanctuary workers claim, that
has violated the law by refusing to grant asylum to Central Americans fleeing
death squads and persecution.

When news of the verdict reached the synagogue in Tucson, the audience broke
into cheers and crying. A spokesman said it would have ''a tremendous impact''
on the movement and on the cases of 16 other sanctuary workers indicted earlier
this month, even though there is no legal connection between the Texas trial and
the Arizona cases.

In Washington bishops who head three major Lutheran organizations urged the
Government to end the ''prosecution and monitoring'' of ''this difficult moral
and theological issue.'' Of the 200 churches involved in the sanctuary movement
around the country, about 15 of them are Lutheran, according to church
officials.

The bishops' statement did not stop Federal officials from proceeding with their
effort to slow down the sanctuary movement. ''We have the laws of this country
to carry out,'' they said. Wednesday nine leaders of the movement appeared in
Federal court in Tucson to plead not guilty to charges of conspiring to smuggle
and harbor illegal aliens. They were released on their own recognizance and
vowed to ''continue to engage in sanctuary ministry.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              133 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 2, 1985, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

RULING ALLOWS CUBAN OUSTER

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 328 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1


Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist of the Supreme Court late today refused
to block the Federal Government's imminent deportation of a group of illegal
immigrants from Cuba being held in the Federal Penitentiary in Atlanta.

The Cubans, who arrived with refugees from the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980, are
scheduled to be deported starting Feb. 8 under an agreement between the United
States and Cuba that was announced late last year.

But the agreement was threatened by a decision by Judge Marvin Shoob of Federal
District Court in Atlanta, who ruled in October that the Cubans had the right to
new hearings in their efforts to obtain political asylum.

At the Government's request, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit issued a stay of Judge Shoob's decision last month.

Attorneys for the Cubans then asked the Supreme Court for a stay of the
appellate court's action, arguing that the Cubans would suffer ''irreparable
harm'' by being deported before their rights to asylum could be determined by
American courts.

The Justice Department opposed the request, arguing that it was ''essential to
this country's foreign policy interests'' to go forward with the deportation
agreement. That agreement also calls for the United States to resume normal
handling of immigrant visa applications from Cubans who want to come here.

In denying the Cubans' request today, Justice Rehnquist said that the Court of
Appeals had considered the questions carefully in permitting the deportations to
go forward on a limited basis. ''This Court is not in a position to second-guess
a balancing of this kind,'' he said.

The Court of Appeals is scheduled to hear further arguments in the case on Feb.
25. The Government plans to deport 100 to 150 Cubans a month, limiting
deportation to those who because of their criminal records would in any event
not qualify for political asylum. The deportation agreement applies to some
2,700 Cubans.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              134 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               November 18, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

JOBS SCARCE FOR PICKERS COMING BACK TO FLORIDA

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 50, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 851 words

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Nov. 17


Thousands of migrant workers returning to Florida for the start of the annual
citrus harvest are finding few jobs and low wages because of the severe freeze
that killed millions of citrus trees last year.

The outbreaks of citrus canker in recent months have exacerbated the problems
for the workers, many of whom consider Florida home but do migrant work
elsewhere in other seasons. The plant disease destroyed thousands of trees in
nurseries where some of the fruit pickers had hoped to find jobs tending young
trees.

State employment officials preparing to aid those competing for scarce jobs say
that they expect growing problems in the next month or two and that the
situation may not ease for two or three years, when the damaged trees begin
bearing fruit again.

The freeze last December, the worst in this century, resulted in $1 billion in
losses after it killed or damaged millions of trees in 250,000 acres of groves
in the northern tier of the state's valuable citrus belt.

Coming Home for Season

State officials, growers and migrant leaders say many of those who work the
Florida groves spend their summers picking vegetables or fruit in the North or
in Texas. They return to the same areas of Florida, often to the same homes,
where they attend the local churches, enroll their children in the schools and
work nearby groves six to nine months of the year.

''I don't call them migrants,'' said Joel Phillips, executive director of the
Plymouth Citrus Growers Association. ''These are people who live here, are
citizens of central Florida. They may go North for a few months, but they're
citizens here.''

Last year's freeze forced Mr. Phillips's group to dissolve. It represented about
250 growers in Lake and Orange Counties and employed about 1,000 pickers.

Job Figures in Dispute

Estimates of the number of fruit pickers in Florida vary widely, but state
employment officials say about 27,000 people were picking fruit in the days just
after last year's freeze at Christmastime.

Benito Lopez, president of the 6,000- member United Migrants Association, based
in Winterhaven, Fla., estimates that as many as 250,000 people pick fruit in
Florida.

State officials acknowledge that their figures do not include illegal aliens or
pickers who work groves sporadically, but they say the association's figures are
exaggerated.

Because the freeze spared most groves in areas south of Orange County, thousands
of workers are expected to seek jobs in the lush, emerald groves as far South as
LaBelle in Hendry County. The increased competition has forced wages down,
migrant leaders say.

Less Money for PickingA 90-pound box of fruit that would be worth 70 cents to 80
cents in wages for picking in a good year is bringing 45 cents to 60 cents this
year, they said.

''The work is available to them if they want to move where the fruit is,'' said
Dave Gurney, general manager of the D. G. Harmon Fruit Company of Clermont.

Mr. Gurney expects to harvest 75 percent less fruit than usual in 1,200 acres of
freeze-damaged groves the company owns in Lake and Orange Counties. Harvesting
will not begin there for several weeks, he said, but harvesting has already
begun at Harmon's groves in the Fort Pierce, LaBell and Sebring areas, which
were untouched by the freeze.

''They're either going to have to learn a new trade, or they're going to have to
move,'' Mr. Phillips said.

Don Orr, manager of the State Employment Office in Sebring, has organized a
group of social service agencies to prepare for the pickers forced south by the
freeze.

Mr. Orr estimates that 3,500 workers return to the area every year and expects
that figure could triple this year.

''Our major concern is housing,'' Mr. Orr said.

Church Camps and Tents

He said there is barely enough housing for the usual number of farm workers, and
the agencies have asked church camps to provide room and the National Guard to
provide tents. The social service group is also collecting canned goods and is
trying to make employers, who may be hesitant to hire the migrants, aware of the
workers' problems.''

Mr. Orr said the group has also considered asking President Reagan to extend a
disaster declaration beyond the end of the year.

''We just feel that if we don't have some plan of action, the people will drift
around,'' Mr. Orr said.

''It wouldn't help them at all to move them from county to county,'' he added.
''They're going to have to sit out this winter season somewhere.''

Mr. Reagan declared a disaster in five Florida counties in March, which helped
provide $15.7 million in unemployment aid to 9,124 citrus workers. Workers got
an average of $41 in weekly assistance. The aid is scheduled to expire Dec. 31,
and a spokesman for the State Department of Community Affairs said there was
little chance it would be extended.

Joe Bor, 60 years old, said, while visiting in the unemployment claims office in
Winter Garden, that he has picked fruit for 26 years and does not want to
relocate. ''I'll pick fruit, that's all I know how to do,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              135 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 17, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 53 words


A dispatch from Tucson yesterday, about reactions to an indictment of 16 people
in connection with the smuggling of illegal aliens, misidentified a New York
legal group. The group, which said it was preparing a suit seeking to enjoin the
Government from further arrests, is the Center for Constitutional Rights.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: correction

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              136 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 24, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

9 PLEAD NOT GUILTY IN TUCSON TO SMUGGLING ILLEGAL ALIENS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 967 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Jan. 23


While nine leaders of the American sanctuary movement pleaded not guilty in
Federal District Court here today to charges of illegally smuggling Central
Americans into this country, about 100 refugees they helped bring in gathered in
a synagogue to condemn United States policy in that part of the world.

The Central Americans, mostly from El Salvador and Guatemala, sat in a roped-off
section of the Temple Emanu-El, one of 14 houses of worship here that are part
of the sanctuary movement. They listened over headphones to a Spanish
translation of a keynote address at a two-day symposium, delivered by the Rev.
William Sloane Coffin of Riverside Church in New York City, one of about 200
churches nationally that are part of the movement.

''The real issue is human rights,'' Mr. Coffin said. ''We must continue the
sanctuary movement in its present form until Congress makes it no longer
necessary to do so.''

Nine Leaders Released

In the Federal court downtown, meanwhile, the nine leaders of the movement were
released on their own recognizance after entering their not guilty pleas to 71
counts of conspiracy to smuggle and harbor illegal aliens. The nine included the
Rev. John M. Fife, who publicly announced that his Tucson Southside Presbyterian
Church was giving sanctuary to Central Americans he and others were helping
bring into the country.

In Phoenix, four other members of sanctuary movement were arraigned on similar
charges. They were also released after pleading not guilty.

Mr. Fife said after his court appearance, ''It's our contention that the United
States Government has been breaking the law.''

The smuggling and hiding of Central Americans began secretly here in 1981, but
has continued as a matter of open policy at Mr. Fife's church since March 1982.

Other churches have joined the movement, making no secret that they help
transport, feed and provide shelter to people who say they are fleeing political
oppression, torture and death in Central America.

The great majority of the Central American aliens who have entered this country
since 1980 and then applied for political asylum have been denied it and
deported.

The Government maintains that very few are actually fleeing political
persecution, but rather severe economic hardship, which is not a legal reason
for granting asylum.

Central Americans Arrested

Although more than 60 Central American aliens were arrested and named as
unindicted co-conspirators in a Government crackdown on the sanctuary movement
10 days ago, the Federal authorities have not yet raided a church to arrest
undocumented aliens. There is no statutory prohibition against doing so.

The indictments against sanctuary movement leaders, however, resulted from a
10-month undercover operation in which Federal agents and informants infiltrated
the movement and made more than 100 secret tape recordings of meetings and
conversations in which smuggling of refugees was discussed and planned at the
Southside Church.

At Temple Emanu-El, Raquel Ovryn, one of the coordinators of the symposium, said
she did not believe the temple would be raided and the refugess arrested, but
that a number of laywers were on hand if that occurred. The symposium is to be
followed by a closed two-day meeting at which plans are to be laid to continue
aiding refugees.

At the courthouse, Mr. Fife indicated that the Government had previously
acknowledged a policy of not entering churches to arrest refugees, but added,
''We have taken steps to protect them, but I can't comment on that.''

In addition those arrainged today, three others have been indicted on charges of
conspiracy to transport illegal aliens.

However, Federal District Judge Raymond T. Terlizzi postponed their
arraignments. The reason given by the judge was that two of them were Mexican
nationals who might not be under the jurisidiction of United States law and the
third had not obtained a lawyer.

All those arraigned today were to appear in court in April.

Trial Opens in Texas

Meanwhile, the trial of another sanctuary movement worker, Jack Elder, indicted
last March on a charge of transporting three Salvadorans illegally inside this
country, began today in Federal court in Corpus Christi.

Judge Hayden Head Jr. had earlier denied motions to dismiss the case on grounds
that Mr. Elder acted out of religious conviction, that his arrest represented
selective prosecution in that others doing the same thing were not prosecuted,
and that illegal aliens were routinely transported inside the United States,
usually for agricultural purposes.

In opening testimony, a Border Patrol agent identified Mr. Elder as the man he
said he saw drop off three undocumented Salvadorans at a bus station in
Harlingen last March, then speed away as agent approached.

Mr. Elder's lawyer said today that he would use as a defense the sanctuary
movement's contention that the Central Americans they assist actually should be
admitted under the terms of the Refugee Act of 1980, and that it is the
Government that is violating the law by failing to admit them.



U.S. Action Is Defended

WASHINGTON, Jan. 23 (UPI) - Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, today defended the Government's recent crackdown on the
sanctuary movement. He said the Government had not been , ''targeting'' church
groups.

Mr. Nelson, commenting on the indictments of sanctuary participants in Arizona,
asserted they had ''openly flaunted the laws.'' Mr. Nelson had approved the
indictments.

''We are not focusing on the churches,'' Mr. Nelson said in an interview. ''We
were focusing on the smuggling. We have the laws of this country to carry out
and I think it's essential to do so.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              137 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 7, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

Alien Backers' Trial Moved

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 7, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 49 words

DATELINE: BROWNSVILLE, Tex., Feb. 6


The trial of Jack Elder, 41 years old, and Stacey Lynn Merkt, 30, two sanctuary
movement workers charged with smuggling illegal aliens, will be held in Houston,
Federal District Judge Filemon Vela ruled Tuesday. He said publicity had made it
impossible to select an impartial jury here.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              138 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 6, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CONTRACTS FOR DETENTION RAISE LEGAL QUESTIONS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 919 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, March 5


Even in Houston, where high fences are commonplace, the compound looks strangely
out of place on the edge of a residential neighborhood, just off a major
interstate highway.

The sign outside that reads ''Olympic Motel'' and under that ''Color TV, Radio,
Telephone'' seems at odds with the 12-foot cyclone fence, topped with coiled
barbed wire and laced with bamboo to thwart the curious.

Behind it young Latin men throw a Frisbee around an exercise yard that used to
be a motel courtyard.

''Day Rates Available,'' says a sign on the wall.

The odd compound is the outgrowth of what appears to be a growing trend in the
incarceration of Federal prisoners and detainees: Farming them out to private
security agencies under contract.

Holds 140 Illegal Aliens


The makeshift detention center here is an interim facility that houses about 140
illegal aliens being held pending deportation or other proceedings by the United
States Immigration and Naturalization Service.

The motel was leased by a Nashville- based private security agency, Corrections
Corporation of America, which turned it into a detention camp guarded by private
guards, its own and those hired from other private agencies.

''It's not bad for a jail,'' said Joe Beezley, a guard employed by ABM Security
Services, who sat in a straight- backed chair in the rear of the fenced- in
motel. ''But still,'' he said, glancing up at the barbed wire and smiling, ''I
think if I was here I'd try to climb that fence.''

Mr. Beezley said seven residents of the detention camp had done just that
recently, doing nothing to calm the fears of some area residents who were
already jittery about having the detention facility in the neighborhood.

Civil Liberties Issue


But beyond that consideration, this facility and others have stirred concern
among civil libertarians about the propriety of contracting with private
agencies for incarceration of prisoners. The American Civil Liberties Union in
Houston has brought a suit challenging the practice.

The motel is being used temporarily during construction of a 300-bed detention
center, nearing completion just south of Houston's Intercontinental Airport.
That detention center is being built and will be operated by Corrections
Corporation of America under contract with the immigration service, which will
pay the company $2.2 million the first year.

It will help house the swelling number of illegal aliens apprehended in the
interior of the country, many of whom are requesting asylum or who must
otherwise be held pending hearings or other actions by the immigration service.

The immigration service already has a similar detention center at Pasadena,
Calif., also operated by a private security agency under contract.  In addition,
the United States Bureau of Prisons has announced plans to enter into a contract
with a private agency to operate a minimum security Federal prison at a former
military installation at Mineral Wells, Tex.

Incident Raised Questions


Stefan Presser, an A.C.L.U. lawyer, said the trend is growing and raises
constitutional questions.

''There are instances in Arizona and New Mexico in which small towns in the
backwater are saying, 'Look, we think private business can do this cheaper than
government.' So they're hiring these private security firms who are going to
hold traffic violators, felons, whoever needs to be held.''

The suit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union here grew out of an
incident in 1981 in which 16 Columbian stowaways were held by a private security
agency here pending deportation. They attempted to escape, and after they were
recaptured, a guard's shotgun discharged, killing one man and seriously wounding
another.

In addition to payment of damages and other relief, the suit asks the Federal
District Court here to stop the practice of contracting for private
incarceration. Mr. Presser said that in addition to the incident at hand, the
suit is based on a contention that private agencies are not adequately equipped
and trained to do a humane job of incarceration, and also that a profit motive
is likely to generate cost-cutting measures not in the interest of either the
prisoner or the public.

A ruling by Judge John V. Singleton, chief judge of the Federal District Court
for the Southern District of Texas, is expected within the next two to three
weeks.

Minimum Standards Sought

Failing a ban on private contracting, Mr. Presser said the A.C.L.U. hopes for a
determination by the court insuring minimum standards.

''I don't care who's guarding them as long as they ae well-trained and insure
humane conditions,'' Mr. Presser said. ''The problem is, I don't believe there
is a company prepared to meet those requirements.''

Paul O'Neill, district director of the Immigration and Naturalization Service in
Houston, said minimum standards would be insured by contract compliance
provisions and by continuous supervision by I.N.S. personnel.

''We are going to have people on-site 24 hours a day,'' he said.

The contract with the security agency, he said, ''demands an extremely high
standard, appropriate health care, appropriate food and diet. No law-enforcement
agency can afford not to mind its p's and q's.''

Mr. O'Neill also said increasing numbers of of illegal aliens coming into the
United States, coupled with manpower shortages and high start-up costs for new
incarceration facilities, made private contracting necessary.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of guards behind Houston detention center fence

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              139 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 8, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

THE HESITANT HOUSE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 864 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 7


Time is running out for Congressional action on a bill to curtail the flow of
illegal aliens, even as Democrats come under growing pressure to stall the
legislation.

The Speaker of the House, Thomas P.  O'Neill Jr., agreed last week to postpone
debate on the legislation until after the California Democratic primary June 5.
His action came in response to pleas from California Democrats in the House and
from Walter F. Mondale, the Presidential candidate whom Mr. O'Neill has
endorsed.

The bill, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, would penalize employers
who knowingly hired illegal aliens and would offer legal status to many illegal
aliens already in the country.

Twice in the last two years the Senate has passed similar bills, which were
supported by the Reagan Administration and opposed by many Hispanic Americans.

'The Last Postponement'


In announcing the latest delay Mr.  O'Neill said, ''This is definitely the last
postponement,'' and vowed that the House would devote a full week to debate on
the bill starting June 11. But anyone who has followed the tortuous course of
the legislation over the last two years knows its future is uncertain.

Mr. Mazzoli said the House would probably pass the bill if it came to a straight
up-or-down vote. And on specific amendments, he said, ''I'll go toe to toe with
anybody out there and we will win because we start with more than 100 votes in
our favor on any issue.''

But there are more than 80 proposed amendments pending before the Rules
Committee, which sets the terms of debate. Many would make profound changes in
the bill, and even minor amendments can stir hours of impassioned debate.

One full week of debate is an unusual amount for any bill and it is particularly
difficult to find such a block of time in an election year. The Congressional
calendar calls for the House to be in recess from May 25 to May 30, from July 2
to July 23 and from Aug. 13 to Sept. 5, with adjournment tentatively set for
Oct. 4.

Both Sides Critical


Mr. O'Neill has been criticized both by supporters of the bill, who say he is
killing it through delay, and opponents, who say he should not permit any floor
debate.

Roger Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a private nonprofit group that supports immigration controls, said:

''In October the Speaker promised to bring the bill up early in 1984. In
February he let it be known the bill would come up in March. In March the
schedule was changed to April, and in April the word was that the bill would
come up in May. Clearly, the Speaker intends to go on repeating this ploy until
the legislative calendar is exhausted.''

Representative Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of California, said House leaders
''did not even give us the courtesy'' of holding hearings on his immigration
bill, which is preferred by Hispanic groups.

The bill avoids the two features of the Simpson-Mazzoli proposal that Hispanic
leaders find most objectionable: employer sanctions and the requirement for
employers to verify the identity of all job applicants as either citizens or
legal aliens. The Roybal bill seeks to control illegal immigration by stronger
enforcement of labor laws on the theory that employers hire illegal aliens
because they can be exploited.

Blame for Democrats


''If the Simpson-Mazzoli bill passes,'' Mr. Roybal said, ''Hispanics would blame
the Democrats, since the House is controlled by Democrats.''

Mr. Roybal's family has been in the United States since 1610, when his Spanish
ancestors settled in Santa Fe, N.M. But the Hispanic population, which sees
itself as the group most affected by the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, includes many
more recent arrivals.

According to the Census Bureau, the number of Hispanic people in the United
States grew to 14.6 million in 1980 from 9 million in 1970, and the bureau
estimates that the total reached 15.9 million in March 1983. Those of Mexican
origin grew 93 percent, to 8.7 million in 1980 from 4.5 million in 1970,
according to the bureau.

The delays in Congress do not necessarily indicate a breakdown of the
legislative process, according to lawmakers and lobbyists following the issue.
The chaos in the House, they said, represents all too well the variety and
intensity of feeling on the issue in the country at large.

Public Support Is Cited


The sponsors of the Simpson-Mazzoli bill say that numerous opinion polls have
demonstrated public support for the legislation. But such polls generally do not
measure the intensity and depth of feeling. Many members of the fast- growing
Hispanic minority, which is concentrated in several states with large numbers of
electoral votes, care passionately.

But it is not only Hispanic Americans who have been trying to defeat the bill.
Growers of fruit and vegetables who have come to depend on foreign labor oppose
the bill in its present form. They want it amended to include a temporary guest
worker program. That would be anathema to many labor unions.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: ANALYSIS

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              140 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               June 20, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

REGIONAL ROLL CALL ON ALIEN AMNESTY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 21, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 211 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 19


Following are the positions of Representatives from New York, New Jersey and
Connecticut when the House today approved an amendment by the majority leader,
Representative Jim Wright, to offer legal status to illegal aliens who have
lived in this country since 1982. A ''yes'' vote is for the Wright amendment and
a ''no'' represents a vote against it; ''xxx'' means not voting.

NEW YORK

Democrats - Ackerman, no; Addabbo, no; Biaggi, yes; Downey, no; Ferraro, no;
Garcia, no; LaFalce, yes; Lundine, yes; McHugh, no; Mrazek, no; Nowak, no;
Ottinger, no; Owens, no; Rangel, no; Scheuer, yes; Schumer, xxx; Solarz, no;
Stratton, no; Towns, no; Weiss, no.

Republicans - Boehlert, yes; Carney, yes; Conable, yes; Fish, no; Gilman, no;
Green, no; Horton, yes; Kemp, yes; Lent, no; Martin, no; McGrath, no; Molinari,
yes; Solomon, no; Wortley, no.

NEW JERSEY

Democrats - Dwyer, yes; Florio, yes; Guarini, no; Howard, xxx; Hughes, yes;
Minish, yes; Rodino, no; Roe, yes; Torricelli, yes.

Republicans - Courter, yes; Rinaldo, no; Roukema, no; Smith, no.

CONNECTICUT

Democrats - Gejdenson, no; Kennelly, xxx; Morrison, no; Ratchford, yes.

Republicans - Johnson, yes; McKinney, no.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: list

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              141 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 5, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

Fifth Alien Hit by Train Dies

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 57 words

DATELINE: CORPUS CHRISTI, Tex., May 4


Douglas Guerrero, a 7-year-old Salvadoran, has become the fifth person to die
after a freight train plowed through a group of about 40 illegal aliens last
Saturday, officials said Thursday. The aliens had been crossing or sleeping on a
narrow, 450-foot trestle over Olmos Creek when a Missouri Pacific freight train
bore down on them.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              142 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 19, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

REPORTER IS ARRESTED WITH FIVE IN TEXAS IN AIDING OF ALIENS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 39, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 324 words

DATELINE: McALLEN, Tex., Feb. 18


A reporter for The Dallas Times Herald was arrested Friday with three
Salvadorans, a nun and a social worker and charged with transporting illegal
aliens.  An editor for the newspaper said said he was working on an assignment
at the time,

The arrests by officers of the United States Border Patrol came at a traffic
stop on a rural highway in south Texas. The arrests of the Catholic nun and the
social worker were among the first involving members of church groups that
announced publicly last year their intention to aid people fleeing El Salvador,
The Times Herald said.

The reporter, Jack Fischer, 30 years old, and Sister Dianne M. Muhlenkamp, 36,
of Donaldson, Ind., and the lay worker, Stacy Lynn Merkt, 29, of Colorado
Springs, were arraigned before United States Magistrate Sue Williams in McAllen.
They were freed on $10,000 personal recognizance bonds.

'Reporter on Assignment'


Larry Tarleton, managing editor of The Times Herald, said Friday that Mr.
Fischer ''was working as a reporter on assignment for The Dallas Times Herald
and was in pursuit of legitimate journalistic activities as an observer when he
was arrested.''

The Times Herald said the nun and lay worker had been serving as temporary
volunteers with Casa Romero, a nonprofit haven for Central American refugees in
San Benito.

James L. Selbe, sector chief of the Border Patrol in McAllen, said the three
were charged with transportation of illegal aliens and conspiracy to transport
illegal aliens ''based on information the Salvadorans gave during our interviews
with them.''

No charges were filed immediately against the Salvadorans. ''They are being held
as material witnesses, and they probably will be charged with being illegal
aliens,'' Mr. Selbe said.

The Salvadorans were identified as Mauricio Valle and Brenda Elizabeth
Sanchez-Galan, both said to be in their 20's, and Mrs. Sanchez-Galan's 1-year-
old daughter, Bessie.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              143 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 30, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

4 DIE WHEN TRAIN TRAPS ILLEGAL ALIENS ON TRESTLE

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: KINGSVILLE, Tex., April 29


A freight train plowed through a group of illegal aliens walking across a
railroad trestle in the dark Saturday night, forcing some to jump into a shallow
creek 31 feet below. Four were killed and at least seven were injured.

As many as 40 people may have been on the bridge when the train approached at
about 40 miles an hour, said Rod Saucier, agent in charge of the United States
Border Patrol office in Kingsville.

Tim Hogan, a Missouri Pacific Railroad spokesman in Chicago, said the train
engineer saw the people on the bridge but was unable to stop the 43-car train
until it had crossed the 464-foot trestle over Olmos Creek, 17 miles south of
Kingsville and about 85 miles north of the Mexican border.

The dead were two women, a boy about 12 years old and a younger child, a Border
Patrol official said.

Some Said to Be Hiding


Immediately after the accident, the authorities arrested 14 people who escaped
injury. Today, in a search for more victims in the three- to four-foot-deep
creek and for survivors who may have sought cover in the mesquite that dots the
rugged coastal area south of Corpus Christi, the authorities found 20 people,
none of whom admitted knowing anything of the accident.

''There's probably 300, 400 who cross here every day in little groups like
these,'' said Joe Mays, a Kleberg County sheriff's deputy.

The aliens were walking north on the trestle when they were surprised about
10:10 P.M. by the train traveling south from Kingsville to Harlingen, Mr.
Saucier said.

As the train approached, some of the people jumped from the bridge, some tried
to outrun the train and some tried to avoid the locomotive by standing at the
edge of the trestle, he said. Because of the brush and a curve in the tracks
north of the bridge they may not have seen the train until it was quite close to
the trestle, he said.

Most From El Salvador


Some of the 14 uninjured who were arrested after the accident were taken to the
Kenedy County Sheriff's office at Sarita, from which they were to be sent to a
detention center, Mr. Saucier said.

Some of them would be given documents allowing them to stay with injured
relatives at hospitals, he added.

The authorities thought most of the people were in this country illegally from
El Salvador, Mr. Saucier said, and some were from Mexico. Most of them probably
either paid or agreed to pay smugglers $500 to $600 apiece to be brought into
the country, he said.

Five of the injured were taken to Memorial Hospital in nearby Corpus Christi and
two were taken to Kleberg Hospital in Kingsville.

A spokesman at Memorial Hospital said four people were in critical condition in
the intensive care unit and a fifth person was in stable condition. The
patients, four children and a woman, all suffered multiple injuries, said a
hospital spokesman, John Gilliam.

A spokesman for Kleberg Hospital said two patients were in intensive care and an
uninjured child was admitted to the pediatric unit for shelter. The hospital
declined to give details, but the railroad spokesman, Mr. Hogan, said he was
told the two patients were in fair condition.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              144 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 2, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Alien Deaths FollowedLong March in Texas

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 132 words

DATELINE: KINGSVILLE, Tex., May 1


Illegal aliens forced to jump from a trestle because of a freight train had been
led by smugglers on a forced march for 18 to 20 hours without food or water, a
United States Border Patrol officer said today.

Four aliens were killed and seven were injured seriously Saturday night when a
Missouri Pacific train surprised the group as they walked across a long, narrow
trestle.

Survivors said three smugglers had allowed the group of 47 predominantly
Salvadoran aliens to stop only once in a 24-hour period, said Bob Gilbert, the
assistant chief Border Patrol agent in McAllen.

''They said they stopped once and slept for six hours under some bushes,'' Chief
Gilbert said today. ''But they didn't get any food or water. The men said there
would be food when they reached the vehicles.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              145 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 15, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Border Patrol Searches For Aliens, Finds Drug

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 106 words

DATELINE: SAN CLEMENTE, Calif., May 14


Border Patrol agents poking through alfalfa in a horse trailer looking for
illegal aliens instead found two tons of marijuana, officers said today.

The marijuana was found in cardboard boxes and plastic trash bags covered with
alfalfa. Hidden with it was $950 in cash.

The discovery was made Thursday, a spokesman said, but an announcement was
delayed to allow the Drug Enforcement Agency to complete its work on the case.

Held at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in San Diego were the truck driver,
Miguel Angel Tiznado, 29, of Hermosillo, Sonora, Mexico, and his passenger,
Nancy Gonzales, 24, of Tucson, Ariz.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              146 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 21, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

COMMENCEMENT DAY: A TIME OF GOODBYES AND ANTICIPATION;
KOCH ASSERTS PUBLIC SERVICE CAN BE 'NOBLEST OF PROFESSIONS'

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 415 words


Mayor Koch played campus recruiter yesterday and urged the 1,100 graduates of
Manhattan College to consider careers in public service.

''It's truly the noblest of professions when done honorably and well,'' the
Mayor said in the keynote address at the institution's 133d commencement, in the
Draddy Gymnasium in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.

''We are the trustees of this extraordinary city and we have an obligation to
deliver the city to the next generation in better shape,'' Mr. Koch said.

Problem of Illegal Aliens


As an example of the trials and rewards of public service, Mr. Koch cited the
need to provide services for the city's illegal aliens, who he said totaled more
than half a million.

The Mayor urged the Federal Government to improve its patrolling of the nation's
borders and to shoulder a greater part of the fiscal burden for educational and
medical services to illegal aliens.

Despite the job's many headaches, Mr. Koch told the graduates, ''I enjoy being
the Mayor of the City of New York.''

Mr. Koch received an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree for ''nursing the
city's budget back to health'' and for other contributions to New York City.

A Busy Day for Mayor


The Mayor arrived huffing and puffing and a bit late, having already attended
three parades. Nevertheless, the audience greeted him warmly, whistling and
chanting. ''Eddie, Eddie,'' whereupon he struck his familiar pose, with both
arms outstretched.

The Mayor also said he would make copies of his speech available after the
event, ''for one dollar plus postage.''

Some of the graduates said that while they did not have jobs waiting for them,
they had no regrets about graduating other than that they were limited to four
tickets each for the ceremony.

''It's easier getting Lionel Richie tickets,'' said Robert Costa, a senior of
Fort Lee, N.J., who, like many of his classmates, had more aunts and uncles than
tickets.

The college awarded these other honorary degrees: REV. DR. JAMES R. CRUMLEY,
Jr.,

Bishop of the Lutheran Church in America; Doctor of Humane Letters, for his

work ''toward the better understanding

between Lutherans and Roman Catholics.'' REV. JOSEPH P. FITZPATRICK, S.J.,

professor emeritus of sociology at Fordham Univeristy; Doctor of Humane Letters,
for ''introducing the social sciences

into the curriculum of many Catholic

Colleges in the late 1940's and 1950's''

and for his many articles on sociology.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mayor Koch

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              147 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CONSERVATIVE HOLDS LEAD IN TEXAS SENATE PRIMARY

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 33, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 643 words

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex., June 2


Representative Kent Hance, a folksy West Texas conservative Democrat who
co-sponsored President Reagan's tax package, held a slim lead for the Democratic
nomination to the Senate in a runoff primary in Texas tonight, but the outcome
remained in doubt.

Mr. Hance's runoff campaign centered on opposition to proposals to grant amnesty
to illegal aliens already in the country and charges that his opponent, State
Senator Lloyd Doggett, waged a ''mudslinging'' attack on his voting record on
Social Security matters.

Although Mr. Hance led Mr. Doggett with over 90 percent of the vote counted,
precinct analysts in both camps said the outcome was too close to call because
much of the early vote tabulated was from rural precincts that voted heavily for
Mr. Hance.

The Vote Tally


With 94 percent of 6,063 precincts counted, Mr. Hance had 444,870 votes, or 51.3
percent, and Mr. Doggett had 422,995 votes, or 48.7 percent.

The winner will face the Republican candidate, Representative Phil Gramm, for
the seat being vacated by Senator John Tower, a Republican.

The contest for the Democratic nomination was bitterly fought from the
beginning.  In the first primary campaign, Robert Krueger, the former
Representative who came within one percentage point of defeating Mr. Tower six
years ago, was considered the front-runner. Mr. Doggett had been expected to run
second and Mr. Hance third.

Instead, the race ended in almost a dead heat, and it was three days before the
surprising first returns, with some modification, were confirmed.

Narrow Margin for Candidates


Instead of last, Mr. Hance ran first; Mr. Doggett, as expected, ran second, but
Mr. Krueger was third, and out of the running. Once again, Mr. Krueger lost by a
thin margin, this time by less than a tenth of a percentage point. He finished
behind Mr. Doggett by 1,287 votes out of nearly 1.5 million cast.

Mr. Hance's upset victory was attributed to a blitz of television advertising in
the closing two weeks of the campaign in which he denounced proposals to grant
amnesty to some illegal aliens in this country, an emotional issue in Texas,
which shares a 1,200-mile border with Mexico.

But a key factor was also Mr. Doggett's relentless assault on Mr. Krueger's
record as a member of Congress, particularly what Mr. Doggett said was a poor
attendance record.

With Mr. Krueger out of the race, Mr. Doggett turned his research staff loose on
Mr. Hance, who has served two terms in the House.

The researchers came up with votes by Mr. Hance against increases in Social
Security, and Mr. Doggett's Los Angeles media adviser, Bill Zimmerman, using
actors, produced a scathing television commercial.

Mr. Hance responded with his own television campaign, with the result that the
monthlong runoff campaign was largely a battle of media imagery.

Hance Savaged in Ads


In one Doggett spot, Mr. Hance was portrayed saying he would ''fight against
cuts in Social Security.''

An elderly man snaps, ''That's a durn lie.''

Another senior citizen says, ''You can't trust that Hance fellow on Social
Security,'' and another adds, ''Or anything else.''

Mr. Doggett also savaged Mr. Hance for his sponsorship of the Reagan tax cut
package with a commercial portraying Mr. Hance as a butler serving on a silver
platter a volume entitled ''Tax Breaks for the Rich.'' The wealthy master
haughtily intoned: ''Very good, Hance.''

Mr. Hance responded with commercials of his own that showed mud splattering
against the screen and the tagline, ''Lloyd Doggett is mudslinging again.''

The ads said Mr. Hance never voted to cut Social Security and that the tax cuts
he co-sponsored treated everyone equally.

It concluded that ''Hance is against amnesty for illegal aliens; Doggett is for
it, and no amount of muslinging can cover that up.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              148 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 4, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SHELTERING OF SALVADORANS IS DEBATED

BYLINE: By ARI L. GOLDMAN

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 995 words


The congregation of the Riverside Church debated yesterday whether to provide
shelter for a family of illegal aliens from El Salvador, a move that would put
the church in conflict with the United States Government and with its own boards
of trustees and deacons.

In a crowded basement meeting room after the Sunday service, 250 church members
discussed whether Riverside should join 110 churches around the country that
have declared themselves sanctuaries for refugees fleeing violence in Central
America.

''I feel it is our Christian duty to help these people,'' said Christine Carter,
a member of the congregation who favors opening up the church to the refugees.

''It is a dishonest, political proposal,'' said another member, William Peck.

Financial Burden


For nearly two hours, members asked questions. What legal risks would the church
be taking? What would be the financial burden? Would providing protection be
seen as a political statement or a humanitarian gesture? And, should the church
first take care of poor people in New York before extending a helping hand to
the oppressed of Central America?

Advocates said American churches had a responsibility to shelter the Salvadoran
refugees. They charged that the United States Government had refused to grant
them asylum because to do so would be to concede that it was supporting an
''oppressive'' government in El Salvador. There is a historic precedent, they
added, for using churches as sanctuaries that dates to biblical times.

Church members heard from legal experts and from sanctuary church workers in
other cities, including Brother Philip, a Benedictine monk from a monastery in
Weston, Vt., that took in a family of seven Guatemalan refugees in April.

Whatever the religious, legal or political considerations, Brother Philip said,
the experience of taking in refugees was in itself enriching. ''We are very much
on the receiving end,'' he said. ''They bring an outlook on faith and on the
Gospel that we could not gain otherwise.''

Deeply Divided on Issue


The Riverside Church, which was built in 1929 by the Rockefeller family at 122d
Street and Riverside Drive, is deeply divided on the sanctuary issue. The senior
minister, Rev. William Sloane Coffin, has preached in favor of the move. The
board of trustees and the board of deacons have voted against it.

The 2,500 members of Riverside will have an opportunity to vote on the issue at
a special meeting following the church service next Sunday.

If the membership of the interdenominational church approves the proposal by a
vote of at least two-thirds of those present next week, the board of trustees
has agreed to reconsider the issue, according to a spokesman for the trustees,
Cheryl Parham. The board of deacons, she added, would be bound by the decision
of the congregation and the trustees.

A Practical Matter


At yesterday's meeting, Emily Ellis, a Riverside member for 50 years, asked
about practical matters. ''Who will feed them,'' she wondered.

Mary Ann Lundy, a member of the church's sanctuary committee, said the refugees
would be housed and fed in the church, at an annual cost of about $5,000 per
person. Churches usually take in a family, but the specific refugees for
Riverside will not be determined until after a final decision on sanctuary is
made.

Another longtime member of the church, Ramsey McGregor, said he understood that
''emotional and religious'' issues were involved, but added that ''I find it
difficult to say that Riverside Church should break the law.''

In recent statements, officials of the United States Immigration and
Naturalization Service have put church leaders on notice that they were liable
to fines of up to $2,000 and five years in prison for sheltering illegal aliens.

''A church cannot harbor illegal aliens any more than it can hide criminals,''
Duke Austin, a spokesman for the Immigration Service, said in a recent
interview.

Two Arrests Made


In recent months, at least two sanctuary church workers have been arrested for
transporting illegal aliens, one in Texas and one in Arizona, although no
arrests on church property have been made.

Robert Potter, a lawyer who is advising Riverside's sanctuary committee,
predicted that the current interpretation of the immigration laws by the Reagan
Administration would be overturned by the courts. He said those arrested were
protected by international agreements that offered protection for those fleeing
foreign oppression.

Mr. Potter added that he did not expect the Administration would try to
prosecute church members who were active in providing sanctuary, although he
said the Government might try to deny churches tax-exempt status for engaging in
such activity.

'Our Own Backyard'


Among church members who expressed opposition to the move was a church deacon,
Joyce Perry-Jacobs. ''This church does not seem to get involved in social issues
affecting people right in this neighborhood,'' she said. ''I challenge Riverside
to think about the hundreds of people in our own backyard - in Harlem.''

Advocates of the sanctuary proposal argue that Riverside operates a shelter for
the homeless that provides beds for 10 men every night and a free lunch program
for about 50 poor persons daily. But Mrs. Perry-Jacobs said that those measures
were ''Band-Aids'' and that much more remained to be done in the neighborhood.

Jack Elder, a church worker from Texas who was arrested for transporting illegal
aliens, said the political and humanitarian concerns were linked. ''We as a
country, through our tax dollars, are sponsors of official terrorism in El
Salvador,'' he told the audience. ''We have a special duty to our victims.''

He said his Roman Catholic organization, Casa Romero, in Brownsville, Tex., near
the Mexican border, had helped 1,200 Salvadoran refugees resettle in the United
States in the last year.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              149 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

HOUSE, BY 216-211, APPROVES ALIENS BILL AFTER RETAINING AMNESTY PLAN IN FINAL
TEST

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 1483 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


Capping a week of bitter debate, the House of Representatives today approved by
a five-vote margin a comprehensive immigration bill designed to stem the flow of
illegal aliens into this country. The final vote was 216 to 211.

The landmark bill, which represents the most significant change in the law
regarding aliens in more than three decades, would prohibit the employment of
illegal aliens and offer legal status to illegal aliens who can show that they
have have been living in the United States since January 1982.

The measure now is to go to conference with the Senate, which has passed a
similar bill twice before by margins of more than 4 to 1. President Reagan, who
last week said at a news conference that the nation had lost ''control of its
borders,'' has been a strong advocate of stemming the flow of illegal aliens.



Reconciliation Efforts


The Senate bill was introduced by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, who worked with Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky,
to devise legislation acceptable to both houses.

The narrow margin today reflected deep divisions within the House, which had
become evident in impassioned debate over the last seven days. Democrats opposed
the bill by a margin of 138 to 125. Ninety-one Republicans voted for the bill
and 73 voted against it, even though the Administration had urged all House
members to support the legislation.

The 15-minute roll-call vote teetered back and forth, with negative votes as
recorded on an electronic tote board exceeding ayes for much of the first 10
minutes. For a few seconds, the tally was tied with 210 votes on either side.



Close Vote Stuns Many


Most Congressmen were stunned by the closeness of the vote, and clustered in the
aisles of the House watching the totals mount slowly on the electronic
toteboards above the floor. At one point, when it looked as though the vote
might end in a tie, members pointed at Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., seated in
his massive chair, and joked that he might have to cast the deciding vote.

The Speaker generally only votes in case of a tie, and voting today would have
placed him in a tough position. The Speaker has been distinctly cool to the
bill, but would not like to be known as the man who killed it.

The affirmative side finally edged ahead when Representative William Thomas, a
conservative Republican from California, changed his vote from ''present'' to
''aye.'' Several other waverers followed suit and the margin widened slightly,
but there was little cheering from the floor. All the members knew they had cast
a difficult and potentially troublesome vote.

House Democratic leaders did not put pressure on Democratic members to vote for
or against the bill. The strength of opposition reflected, in part, a switch in
the position of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations, which initially supported the bill but opposed it this week as a
result of amendments adopted during floor debate.

The chief sponsor of the House bill, Mr. Mazzoli, said he was surprised by the
number of negative votes.  ''I hoped we'd have a decent margin,'' he said in an
interview.  ''The dynamics of this bill defy rational analysis.''

Disappointment and Approval


Commenting on today's action, Representative Bill Richardson, Democrat of New
Mexico, a member of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, said: ''It's a sad day
for Hispanics and for anyone who is brown or black or yellow. The American
people want immigration reform. I didn't have an alternative I could propose
that was any better.''

Attorney General William French Smith, voicing Administration reaction, said,
''We are very pleased that the House has today finally acted on immigration
legislation,'' and added: ''Although the bill passed by the House today contains
many excellent provisions, including many for which this Administration has long
worked, some of its features require substantial change. We remain confident
however that a House-Senate conference will make the neccesary changes.''

Earlier today, the House rejected a bid to eliminate provisions of the bill that
offer legal status, or amnesty, to illegal aliens. The proposal to delete the
amnesty was defeated by a vote of 233 to 195, with a majority of House
Republicans voting to eliminate the amnesty.

Most Significant Changes


The legislation would make the most significant changes in the law regarding
aliens since passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952.

Immigration experts on both sides of the Capitol said today that they expected
no major problems in negotiating a resolution of the differences between the
House and Senate versions of the Simpson-Mazzoli legislation.

Verne Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, said
today that the agency was prepared to conduct an information and education
campaign to help employers understand the new ban on hiring illegal aliens.

In addition, the immigration service has been working for more than a year with
private nonprofit groups and religious organizations, especially the Roman
Catholic Church, to prepare for the legalization of illegal aliens.

The basic bill was strongly supported by the Reagan Administration and resembles
proposals made by President Carter and by the Select Commission on Immigration
and Refugee Policy, a bipartisan advisory group that issued its report in early
1981.

The bill was opposed by Hispanic groups and Hispanic members of Congress, who
said that employers, to avoid penalties for hiring illegal aliens, would be
reluctant to hire people with dark skin or a foreign accent. Supporters of the
bill insisted that it contained safeguards to prevent such discrimination.

In defending the bill's amnesty program, Mr. Mazzoli noted that it had the
support of President Reagan and Attorney General Smith.  In a letter to House
members this week Mr. Smith said, ''A fair legalization program is the only
humane and practical response to the existence of millions of illegal aliens in
this country.''

How Amnesty Program Works

The amnesty program in the House bill is the one proposed by Representative Jim
Wright, Democrat of Texas, the majority leader. Illegal aliens who have lived in
this country since Jan. 1, 1982, could become legal ''temporary residents'' and
then, after two years in that status, could become lawful permanent residents.

In order to gain permanent resident status, the aliens would have to show that
they were studying to achieve a ''minimal understanding'' of English and of the
history and government of the United States. Aliens could offer rent receipts,
paycheck stubs or other documents to establish that they had been living in the
United States since 1982.

The terms of the amnesty in the Senate bill are more restrictive, offering legal
status to illegal aliens who arrived in the United States before Jan. 1, 1980,
and have lived here continuously since that date.

In the final vote on passage of the bill, the New York delegation was evenly
divided, with 17 members for and 17 against. In the Connecticut delegation, two
members voted for the bill and four opposed it. The New Jersey delegation was
split, with six for and seven against the bill on the final vote.

The Texas delegation was overwhelmingly against the bill, by a margin of 23 to
3. California members also opposed the bill, by a margin of 33 to 12. However,
in Florida, the state that absorbed an influx of 125,000 Cubans in 1980, there
was strong support for the bill. Seventeen Florida members voted for it while
two opposed it.

The three remaining Democratic Presidential candidates all oppose the bill, and
Hispanic leaders said they would urge the party to take a strong stand against
the legislation if it has not been finally approved by the time of the
Democratic National Convention.

Special Program for Harvests

The House bill, unlike its Senate counterpart, would create a special program to
permit farmers to bring aliens into the United States for seasonal work
harvesting fruits and vegetables.

Under the House bill, the Government could impose fines on employers who
knowingly hire illegal aliens. The first violation would bring only a warning,
or citation, but in a second offense the employer would be subject to a civil
penalty of $1,000 for each illegal alien hired. For subsequent offenses, there
would be a civil penalty of $2,000 for each illegal alien hired.

The Senate bill authorizes civil penalties up to $2,000, as well as a criminal
penalty of six months in prison and a $1,000 fine for an employer who shows a
''pattern or practice'' of violations.

Representative Dan Lungren, Republican of California, and Mr. Mazzoli, on the
Democratic side, supervised debate on the bill.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of RepresentativeRomano L. Mazzoli and Dan Lungren

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              150 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 16, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SOUTHWEST JOURNAL;
A PASSION IN TRUFFLES FOR TEXAS

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 869 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, July 15


''It used to be said,'' Francois Picard observed with a Gallic flair for
metaphor, ''that the truffle was the daughter of earth and thunder. In the old
days they noticed that after a thunderstorm, the truffle bore fruit.''

Mr. Picard grew up in the heart of truffle country in southern France and has
been involved with the black, spongelike fungus since he was a child tracking
the lusty pigs that rooted for it under the oaks around his hometown of
Perigord.

He now lives in Dripping Springs, 200 miles west of here in the Texas Hill
Country. But he still harbors a passion for the truffle, which, at a heady $40
or so an ounce retail, he likes to call ''the black diamond'' of haute cuisine.
What took him to Dripping Springs was limestone, which laces the soil of the
Hill Country in abundance. The normally diffident truffles, it develops, is
ardent for limestone. And so Mr. Picard hopes to make Dripping Springs the
truffle capital of the world.

Since the summer of 1982, when a French testing laboratory deemed the Hill
Country soil a superb habitat for growing truffles, Mr. Picard has grown and
transplanted 20,000 oak seedlings and inoculated their roots with the mycelia,
or thallus, or vegetative part, of the tuber melanosporum, the name the black
truffle answers to in scientific circles. For reasons best known to truffles and
trees, the fungus hugs the roots of oak and filbert trees. The trees like it.

Mr. Picard has already committed about 3,000 truffle-kissed seedlings to the
Hill Country earth. With the passage of time, five to 10 years, and the
beneficent advent of a thunderstorm or two, each planting will yield a few
ounces to four pounds of truffles a year. He is looking forward to harvest time.

Truffle hunters seldom use pigs anymore to root up the fungus. The pigs tend to
get nasty when someone snatches away their nosh. So Mr. Picard has two
truffle-snuffling dogs trained to do it. He is also working on a device that
will detect the morsels' earthy odor electronically. Formidable!



Before it took on modern dress and a new name in the 1920's, the United States
Border Patrol was the Mounted Patrol, and it guarded the nation's borders
against illegal entry primarily on horseback.

It first mechanized with Model T's. Today its 3,000-member force works from
cars, vans, spotter planes, helicopters and even dirt motorbikes.

Last week, according to Larry Teverbaugh, chief agent of the busy Laredo sector,
the patrol ''came full circle.'' Three experienced agents there gave up their
green vans and mounted cow ponies, starting a 30- day experiment to see if men
on horses could do more to stem illegal- alien traffic than men in machines.

''They're working out extremely well,'' Mr. Teverbaugh said Friday. A night
horseback patrol the night before resulted in a score of apprehensions, he said,
and assisted in some 80 others by men in a supporting van and on foot. ''They
kept a lot of people from running,'' he said of the 80 ''assists'' in which the
actual capture was made by someone other than the rider. ''They know they can't
outrun a horse.''

The horses can handle terrain too tough for vans or even the knobby- tired
motorcycles, he said, and the extra height of a man on horseback provides a
better view over the scrub.

The horses seemed to warm to the job. ''One of them spotted some aliens before
our agent did,'' Mr. Teverbaugh said. ''He alerted, pricked up his ears -
obviously something out in the brush. He put the agent right on them, like a
bird dog.''

But even with men, machines and horses, Mr. Teverbaugh concedes, the flow of
aliens is increasing. Arrests in the last month were up 38 percent over the like
period of last year, and that has been the pattern for 10 years.



When Oral Roberts opened his City of Faith Medical Center, a clinic, hospital
and research center in Tulsa, nearly three years ago, he asked Oklahoma health
officials to authorize 777 beds. The state, noting studies indicating that the
city already had more hospital beds planned than were needed, reluctantly
approved a maximum of 294.

Now much of the hospital is empty, with only 81 beds occupied. That, with
declining contibutions from the evangelists's worldwide ministries, has meant a
budget shortage of $1 million dollars a month. As a result, 244 of the medical
center's 907 employees have been dismissed.  The decline in contributions has
also put employees of Oral Roberts University, which Mr. Roberts founded in
Tulsa in the 1960's, on a short work week for the summer, and eliminated
athletic scholarships for incoming freshmen in some sports.

The university has also closed its downtown public relations office, and 90
employees of the Oral Roberts Evangelical Association have been dismissed, in
addition to 40 eliminated earlier through attrition.

In February Mr. Roberts wrote his Prayer Partners, as his supporters are called,
appealing for increased donations, but the budgetary problems continued. Tim
Colwell, Mr. Roberts's public relations director, said the decline in
contributions was affecting similar ministries. ''Donations have fallen off
drastically,'' he said, and that could ''affect the future of all ministries.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              151 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 17, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

FROM SOUTH OF THE RIO GRANDE: LOOKING FOR BETTER PAY

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 892 words

DATELINE: MATAMOROS, Mexico, July 12


It was 6:30 A.M., and at the edge of the Rio Grande the morning shift of illegal
aliens was stripping off clothes and getting ready to wade to work.

One by one, yard workers and maids, mechanics and boat hands slipped nude or
seminude into the murky water and, holding up their balled-up clothing, sloshed
off to Brownsville and ''dolares.''

''Sure there is work in Matamoros,'' said Rogelio, a paunchy fisherman, ''but
you always look for the best, no?'' On the shrimp boats that operate from
Brownsville's port, he said, he can work for two weeks and make $960. In
Matamoros it would take him at least six months to earn that.

It is on this type of economic discrepancy that the immigration legislation now
awaiting House-Senate conference is likely to founder, according to people on
this side of the border. While in Mexico's capital there is fearful talk of
large-scale deportations from the United States and of a flood of unemployed
Mexicans returning to cause social unrest in their desperate search for scarce
jobs, the reaction to legislation here seems to be a citywide yawn.

'You Want Help,' Mayor Says

''I haven't paid that much attention to it,'' said Mayor Jesus Roberto Guerra,
who took office in January. ''There are very strict laws on drug smuggling in
the United States, right? It's like telling the Mafia not to import drugs. So
long as there are people who want it, they'll do it. All over the United States
you want help from the illegal aliens.''

Matamoros and Brownsville have long had strong economic, spiritual and familial
ties. Mr. Guerra, who was educated in Texas and whose grandmother lives in
Brownsville, says the two cities are so closely linked that ''if they get drunk,
we get the hangover.'' It will take more than a law, and one difficult to
enforce at that, to break patterns built up over the years, he said.

If the new law could be enforced, the Mayor said, the people it would hurt most
would not be Mexicans but United States employers who rely on cheap Mexican
labor and United States consumers who would have to pay more for their products.

''You still have to cut the oranges and they have to be cut by hand,'' he said.
''A Mexican will do it for $1.80 an hour, which for him is not bad. A gringo is
going to tell you, 'Give me $5 an hour, give me $7 an hour.' They're going to
have to sell it higher.''

Biggest Impact Inland, He Says


Mr. Guerra asserted that the Mexicans who would be most affected would not be
those from Matamoros, many of whom cross the border to make more money with the
same amount of work, but people who travel from poorer areas in the interior of
the country hoping to find enough work to feed their families. If the work dries
up, he said, ''they will go back to where they came from, back to the south.''

Despite the country's serious recession, Matamoros, a city of more than 400,000
people, does not lack employment opportunities the way many other Mexican cities
do. There are 36 foreign assembly plants in the city's duty-free manufacturing
zone; together they employ 22,000 people, and with the upturn in the United
States economy the numbers are steadily growing. There are also Mexican
industrial plants, farms and import-export businesses, as well as stores and
restaurants that serve the Americans who cross as tourists or shoppers to take
advantage of Mexico's relatively low prices.

The president of the Association of Maquiladoras of Matamoros, Michel Folacci,
said that if the immigration legislation could be enforced, it might even be
helpful to the Mexican plants because while their salaries were better than many
in Mexico, they were far below those in Texas.

Many Don't Apply for Jobs


Mr. Folacci, who manages a company that assembles computerized sewing machines
and packaging equipment, said that of the potential employees who came to his
plant from Matamoros union halls, up to 40 percent did not even fill out
applications because they considered the work too taxing for the pay.

But serious enforcement of the new law, Mr. Folacci said, seems doubtful. ''Take
the farmers, take any shop, any restaurant in Brownsville,'' he said. ''I know
for a fact that a big majority employ Mexicans with just border crossing
cards.'' The cards, which are held by many Matamoros residents, allow them to
cross legally to shop for American-made and imported items not available here.
But United States immigration officials make no effort to assure themselves of
the reason for any particular crossing.

In addition, many employers of illegal workers would be exempt because the
provision of the House bill that fines employers of illegal aliens $2,000 for
each such employee applies only to those with four or more employees.

$15 to $25 a Day on Other Side


The average wage in the manufacturing plants of Matamoros is less than $6 a day.
A day of yard work or house- painting in Brownsville pays $15 to $25, according
to those crossing the river, and the risk is minimal.

Amaras, a wiry 14-year-old who earns $3 an hour as a mechanic, said he crossed
nearly every day at a point within yards of the international bridge connecting
Matamoros and Brownsville and had seldom encountered the Border Patrol. ''They
made me run once,'' he said with a grin, ''but they didn't catch me.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jesus Roberto Guerra; photo of Emillo Hernandez; photo of
mexicans

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              152 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 16, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 46 words


An article in Metropolitan Report on Oct. 2 about the harboring of Guatemalan
refugees at Riverside Church incorrectly described the United States
Government's response to sanctuary for illegal aliens. In several cases the
Government has prosecuted those who provided it.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              153 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 28, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ON WEEKENDS AND HOLIDAYS, VANS TRAVEL TO THE BORDER

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 359 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 27


It was a rainy Friday night in Houston, and there had been a crackdown on
illegal aliens, so the shuttle service to Mexico was not as busy as usual.

There were only a dozen vans and station wagons in the parking lot of the
bustling Fiesta Mart in the heart of a north Houston barrio. On a normal summer
Friday there would be twice that many, and on holidays 30 or 40.

The vans, operated by entrepreneurs, are known collectively as the Monterrey
express. For $40 each way, they shuttle the homesick, most of them illegal
aliens, to Mexico for a weekend.

Anyone in search of a cheap, no- questions-asked ride to the Mexican border can
climb into a van any Friday night at a half dozen places in Hispanic
neighborhoods here. The trip, in a van crammed with passengers, suitcases,
boxes, bundles and large portable radios, takes nine hours. Some riders catch
buses in Monterrey to other parts of Mexico.

Some shuttles take their passengers into Mexico, but pick up returning riders
Sunday on the American side of the border. That way, the passenger, not the
driver, is responsible for the crossing into the United States.

Carlos, a Houston mechanic who has operated a shuttle for six years, said many
of his passengers were regulars and he frequently took people who ''do not have
papers.'' On the return trip, he insists that passengers have some kind of
documentation because, he says, the authorities are more likely to stop a van
traveling north than one going south.

A woman riding the shuttle one recent Friday said she had flown to Houston to
visit relatives, but had run out of money and decided to return to Mexico on the
shuttle because it was cheaper.

Another passenger, who identified himself as Jose, said he was returning to
Mexico after three months in the United States. The man, who was exchanging
dollars for Mexican pesos at the Fiesta currency exchange, said he had earned
$3,000 on his stay in this country.

For six years or so, he explained, he has been crossing the border illegally to
come to Houston for a few months, then return home until the money ran out. He
has become a regular customer on the shuttle.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of workers in Houston

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              154 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 25, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CHURCH WORKER ACQUITTED IN ALIEN CASE, BUOYING MOVEMENT

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 898 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Jan. 24


Members of the church-based sanctuary movement for Central American refugees,
meeting here, were buoyed today when a Roman Catholic lay worker was acquitted
in Texas on charges of transporting illegal aliens.

Nine sanctuary workers who face similar indictments here vowed that they would
''continue to engage in sanctuary ministry.''

A jury in Corpus Christi, Tex., took less than two hours to acquit the worker,
41-year-old Jack Elder, director of a half-way house for Central Americans, of
three counts of illegally transporting aliens inside the United States.

He Cites Religious Conviction

Both Mr. Elder and the Government agreed on the essential facts of the case:
Last March Mr. Elder gave three undocumented Salvadorans a ride from the Casa
Oscar Romero half-way house at San Benito some 30 miles to a bus station at
Harlingen.

Mr. Elder said that he did so out of religious conviction because he thought the
three faced political persecution in their country, and that the Government
picked him out for prosecution because he was a sanctuary worker transporting
Salvadorans.

The Government presented only five witnesses, the defense four, in two days of
testimony.

Two Border Patrol agents and the three Salvadorans were presented by the
Government and essentially confi rmed the facts of the case, while Mr. Elder's
witnesses spoke mainly of his strong religious conviction.

As they left the courtroom, several jurors said they acquitted Mr. Elder because
they felt the simple act of taking the three Salvadorans to a bus station did
not further the illegal journey of the undocumented aliens in this country.

If he had been convicted, Mr. Elder could have faced up to 15 years in prison
and $6,000 in fines for the three separate counts.

Cheers and Tears

Despite the narrow scope of the jury's determination, the other indicted
sanctuary workers were jubilant. They were at a sanctuary syposium here,
attended by more than 1,000 people, including about a hundred undocumented
Central American refugees.

The acquittal evoked cheers and crying at Temple Emanu-El, where the two-day
symposium was being held. The announcement was made by Tracey Lynn Merkt, 30, a
co-worker of Mr. Elder's at Casa Oscar Romero, who was convicted on charges of
illegally tranporting aliens last year and given two years' probation.

''There's just elation,'' said Philip Willis-Conger. He is one of 16 under
indictment, including three Roman Catholic priests and three nuns, on a total of
71 charges of planning and carrying out the smuggling into this country of
Central American refugees through an elaborate ''underground railroad''
stretching across this continent.

''Technically, it does not apply to our case,'' he said. ''It's a different
court, and a lower court, but emotionally and psychologically it has a
tremendous impact on the movement, on the public and on the judge.''

At the conference today, 8 of the 16 people recently indicted issued a statement
in which they acknowledged that, as a condition of their release without posting
bond while awaiting trial, they had signed statements at their arraignments
Wednesday agreeing not to break the law while free.

'Intend to Continue'

However, the defendants, who have openly admitted that they transport and
shelter Central American refugees, said in their statement today that they
''intend to continue to engage in sanctuary ministry'' and signed the release
agreement ''under the conviction that our faith is consistent with the laws of
our country.''

The sanctuary workers have maintained all along that their actions are not
illegal, and it is the Government that is acting illegally in failing to grant
legal asylum to people fleeing Central America. They cite the Refugee Act of
1980, which stipulates that asylum will be granted to those either persecuted or
having ''a well-founded fear of persecution'' in their home countries.

The signers of the statement declined to say whether it meant that they would
continue to transport and shelter undocumented Central Americans, but they have
in the past vowed they would do so despite legal consequences.





Lutheran Bishops Alarmed

WASHINGTON, Jan. 24 (UPI) - Bishops of three major Lutheran church bodies said
today that they were deeply disturbed by the recent indictments of sanctuary
movement workers and alarmed that the charges had stemmed from infiltration of
church meetings.

James Crumley Jr., head of the Lutheran Church in America, David Preus, head of
the American Lutheran Church, and Will Herzfeld, head of the Association of
Evangelical Lutheran Churches, issued the statement.

The bishops warned that the indictments could be the ''beginning of a
confrontation between sanctuary churches, firm in the faith that theirs is a
biblical mandate, and the Government in its questionable interpretation of the
law.''

The bishops urged the Government to ''cease the prosecution of lay and ordained
church workers and the monitoring of church activities as a means of response to
this difficult moral and theological issue.''

Although none of the 16 people under indictment apparently were Lutheran,
officials at the Lutheran Council in the U.S.A. said about 15 Lutheran churches
were among the approximately 200 churches involved in the sanctuary movement.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              155 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 27, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SEEKING A CURB ON TESTIMONY CITING RELIGION IN SANCTUARY CASE

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 13, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 512 words

DATELINE: TUCSON, Ariz., Jan. 25


The Government wants to prevent 16 indicted church workers from arguing that
religious convictions and moral objections to United States foreign policy led
them to help Central Americans enter this country illegally.

Federal prosecutors, who obtained indictments two weeks ago against leaders of
the Tucson-based movement to give sanctuary to people fleeing Central America,
have petitioned the Federal District Court in Phoenix to limit testimony to the
facts of the case and to disallow any testimony that the defendants were
motivated by religious principles or a belief that United States policy in
Central America was ''immoral'' and contributed to an exodus from Guatemala and
El Salvador.

The Government maintains that very few of the Central Americans are fleeing
political persecution. Rather, it says they are fleeing severe economic
hardship, which is not a legal reason for granting asylum. Since the case simply
involves the smuggling of aliens, prosecutors say, it should be treated as such,
without raising issues they regard as extraneous.

The defendants, who face 71 counts of conspiracy and smuggling illegal aliens,
say it is a matter of religious conscience to provide sanctuary.

Dennis Riordan, a San Francisco lawyer who has joined the defense team to deal
with the question of admissibility of such testimony, says that because the
defendants do not deny they have transported undocumented Central Americans
through an extensive ''underground railroad,'' they will have no defense at all
if they are not allowed to present their argument that the Government is not
abiding by the law in rejecting almost all applications from Central Americans
for asylum.

If the prosecutors are successful, witnesses and defendants will not be allowed
to refer to the aliens as ''refugees'' or to make any reference to ''the
Department of State, Central Intelligence Agency, Department of Defense or any
other Federal agencies or international organizations associated therewith.''

Mr. Riordan said, ''The American people are going to be tremendously sympathetic
to these defendants, so they don't want the people to hear this; they want to
confine the dialogue to what they did.''

Other matters that the Government asked the court to bar include these:


- Arguments that the defendants ''had good motives and beliefs which negated any
criminal intent.''


- ''Any alleged episodes, stories or tales of civil strife, war or terrorism
that may have occurred or are occurring in Central American countries.''


- ''The number of aliens from Central America who have applied for and have been
granted or denied asylum pursuant to the Refugee Act of 1980.''


- Comparison of the policy on granting asylum to aliens from Central America
with ''either Communist- dominated governments or countries undergoing a
Socialist or Communist revolution.''

Leaders of the sanctuary movement maintain that refugees fleeing such Communist
governments as that in Poland are treated differently from those fleeing
countries under right-wing governments.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              156 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 3, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

LEADERS OF ALIEN SANCTUARY DRIVE SAY INDICTMENTS POSE CHURCH-STATE ISSUE

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 30, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1669 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 2


The Government says that when it began a 10- month undercover operation this
month that resulted in the indictment of 16 church workers on 71 counts of
transporting and harboring illegal aliens it was nothing more than routine law
enforcement.

But those indicted, with support from major religious denominations, insist
rather that what is at issue is nothing less than an unprecedented legal and
moral confrontation between church and state.

It is the United States, they say, not the pastors, priests, nuns and lay
workers that should be on trial for crimes against the law and against humanity.

The Government is charging smuggling and harboring illegal aliens fleeing third
world poverty. The sanctuary movement says it is assisting political refugees
who are in this country legally or would be if the United States abided by its
laws defining refugee status and by international agreements to which it
subscribes.

Infiltration of Churches

The issue erupted dramatically two weeks ago with the announcement by the
Government that two undercover agents of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service, aided by two informers, had infiltrated meetings in Tucson, Ariz.,
churches and tape-recorded details of ''an underground railroad'' that had
smuggled Central Americans into this country and shielded them from arrest in
their churches, homes and ''safe houses'' for more than three years.

Since March 1982, when the Tucson Southside Presbyterian Church, joined by six
churches in the Bay Area of California, announced it was taking part in the
''ancient rite of sanctuary,'' more and more churches, now about 200, have
publicly defied Federal immigration authority.

In addition, an unknown number of churches and other groups with religious
affiliation, possibly another 150 to 200, are assisting the movement secretly.

In Tucson, where 14 churches of various denominations have signed a ''covenant
of sanctuary,'' leaders of the movement say that as many as 200 church workers,
chiefly women and elderly retired people, have shuttled Central Americans from
the border ''half-way houses'' to church sanctuaries like Southside
Presbyterian. Its pastor, the Rev. John M. Fife, is among those indicted.

Asserting 'the Church's Right'

On both sides of the Mexican border, sanctuary activists, including ordained
people, plan and carry out schemes that include disguises, bogus documents and
long, clandestine treks across deserts. They will continue to do it, they say,
out of religious conviction.

After his indictment two weeks ago, Mr. Fife said, ''We will continue to assert
the church's right to administer sanctuary to helpless people whose lives hang
in the balance every day.''

The governing bodies or leading councils of several denominations, including the
American Baptist Churches, the American Lutheran Church, the Disciples of
Christ, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the United Church of Christ and the
United Methodist Church, have affirmed their support of the sanctuary movement,
as has the American Friends Service Committee.

Leaders of the movement justify their defiance of the Federal Government,
defiance that could mean five years in prison for every undocumented Central
American they transport or harbor, on religious, humanitarian and legal grounds.

''I do see it as church versus state, but in a very much different way than we
normally see church versus state,'' said Stephen Cooper, the lawyer for two
church workers facing trial in Texas next week on charges of conspiring to bring
Central Americans into the country.

''I can't remember any time in the past when the Government has tried to invade
the churches, tried to tell the churches they can't do things that have always
been recognized as within the province of the churches, and tried to turn church
people into criminals for nonviolent behavior,'' he said.

''They are willing to feed these people, they are willing to provide them places
to stay, they're willing to assume all responsibiity so it's no burden on
anybody else. But what they're not willing to do is to leave them to be
killed.''

'These Are Aliens to Us'

But United States Attorney A. Melvin McDonald said in announcing the indictments
that ''merely because they wear the garb of the clergy, they have no greater or
no lesser rights than anyone else.'' Assistant United States Attorney Donald M.
Reno, Jr., the leading prosecutor in the Arizona cases, dismissed suggestions of
political or religious overtones.

''Government people are really not motivated by any personal vendetta against
any particular political or religious persuasion,'' he said. ''The Government is
virtually blind as far as those factors are concerned. Rhese are aliens to us.
This is an alien smuggling conspiracy.''

Sanctuary workers say they are seeking to alleviate suffering caused in part by
United States policy in Central America.

''In the particular case of El Salvador,'' said Mr. Cooper, ''there is no doubt
that the bullets that are going into the heads of the people are provided by the
United States, there is no doubt that the helicopters that dropped the bombs on
the houses of the people are made by the United States.''

Both the Government and those who defy it agree that the governing law is the
Refugee Act of 1980. They differ profoundly on its interpretation.

The law defines a refugee legally entitled to stay in this country as someone
who is ''unwilling or unable to return'' to his homeland ''because of
persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution on account of race, religion,
nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion.''

Fear of Persecution Cited

Sanctuary workers say that the vast majority of the more than 500,000 Central
Americans, chiefly Guatemalans and Salvadorans, who have fled to the United
States have at the very least ''a well-founded fear'' of persecution.

Among those supporting that view is Representative Morris K. Udall, who urged
that Salvadorans be granted temporary legal residence.

Saying he was ''deeply troubled'' by the indictments of the sanctuary workers,
Representative Udall maintained that ''the aliens in question are refugees, many
of them women and children, from a war-torn country.''

''Since 1979,'' he went on, ''over 40,000 people have been murdered in El
Salvador, many of them by so-called death squads and many by government troops.
Thousands more have been swept up into the ongoing war. Entire village have been
destroyed. Whole families have been wiped out.''

An Appeal on Long Island

On Long Island this week, the principal cleric of the Presbytery of Long Island,
representing 58 Presbyterian churches and more than 20,000 members, has called
on local parishes and congregants to provide sanctuary for Central American
people.

There was no immediate response by churches on the Island to the appeal by the
Rev. Stark Jones, moderator of the Presbytery and pastor of the Roslyn
Presbyterian Church. He and others who support sanctuary say that many
parishioners feel uncomfortable with the issue. But they have expressed
confidence that, in time, attitudes will evolve and moy sanctuaries will be
found in homes and houses of worship.

Supporters of the sanctuary movement say they transport and hide Central
Americans in their homes and churches because applying for refugee status is
tantamount to being sent back home almost immediately.

In the fiscal year 1984, the Immigration and Naturalization Service processed
13,373 applications for political asylum by Salvadorans. It denied 13,045
applications and granted 328.

Of those denied, said Vern Jervis, a spokesman for the immigration service in
Washington, about 4,000 were returned to El Salvador. Most of the remainder
appealed for a new hearing by the service or in the courts as provided by law.

According to Mr. Jervis, the number of Salvadorans deported has been declining -
8,800 in 1980; 10,500 in 1981; 5,600 in 1982; and 4,800 in 1983.

U.N. Pact Is Pointed Out

Sanctuary supporters maintain that returning any to El Salvador at present is
illegal under the United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees,
which forbids forcibly returning a refugee to a country ''where his life or
freedom would be treatened'' because of race, religion, or politics.

The imigration service says most Central Americans who come into this country
come for economic rather than political reasons. Mr. Jervis said it was
''extremely difficult'' to assess applicants for political asylum.

On Jan. 4, in San Francisco, the service decided the case of a 29-year-old
Salvadoran who had petitioned for political asylum maintaining that because he
had participated in the Salvadoran teachers' union, he had been arrested and
tortured with acid, and a brother had been kidnapped, tortured and decapitated.

Amnesty International Looks In

His petition was supported by doctors for Amnesty International, the
London-based organization that campaigns for the rights of political prisoners.
The doctors corroborated the Salvadoran's assertion that he had been burned with
acid, and the service did not contest the Salvadorann's assertions.

But it ruled as follows: ''The applicant has described the suffering which he
and other family members had unfortunately endured during the civil strife in El
Salvador, suffering which has been similarly experienced by other groups and
political factions operation in El Salvador.

''The problems of the applicant and his family members, however, do not stem
from persecution but from the civil strife which has torn El Salvador apart over
the past five to nine years. The tragedy of El Salvador is that the suffering,
the armed kidnapping and other excesses are not confined to one particular group
but are endured and perpetrated by all.

''For these reasons, the applicant has failed to establish that he qualifies as
a refugee.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of the Rev. John M. Fife; Photo of a Guatemalan family that
sought sanctuary

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              157 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 5, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

BORDER AGENT ACCUSED OF HELPING ALIENS INTO U.S.

BYLINE: By WAYNE KING

SECTION: Section B; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 632 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, Feb. 4


Two years ago, Joe Navarrette was commended for braving the turbulent waters of
a border canal here to save the lives of a group of illegal aliens who had
jumped in to avoid capture.

Today Mr. Navarrette appeared before a United States magistrate here at a bond
hearing on charges that he had helped harbor, conceal and transport three
Colombians who were in this country illegally.

Under questioning, he said that he had had financial problems, had sold his
family's home and had less than $100 in his bank account.

Mr. Navarrette, 38 years old, is a nine-year veteran of the Border Patrol who
has several letters of commendation for outstanding performance. His salary is a
little more than $20,000 a year,

If convicted, he could face up to 10 years in prison on the conspiracy charges.
The Government also said he threatened a fellow officer not to testify against
him. No charges have been made on that allegation. Mr. Navarrette has not yet
been indicted, nor has he formally entered pleas to the charges.

Million Arrests in Year

The 3,000 Border Patrol agents last year made more than one million arrests of
illegal aliens along the southern border.

Most of the aliens flooding into the country are Mexicans fleeing poverty;
others are Central Americans fleeing civil war, and still others are with
contraband or criminal intent.

In many cases, whatever their motives, they are willing to pay for help. In this
case, the Government charges, they paid for the assistance of a Border Patrol
agent and a ''coyote,'' an alien smuggler, or go-between, known as El Gato, the
cat.

''We don't see a long-term thing here,'' Larry Richardson, the chief Border
Patrol agent in the El Paso sector, said in a telephone interview today. ''We
see a guy who saw a way to make some bucks.''

Mr. Navarrette was arrested at El Paso International Airport Friday, where the
authorities say he was helping one of the three Colombians make his way through
the maze of up to 60 undercover Border Patrol agents. The agents were trying to
seal the airport against the increasing flow of aliens who slip across the
border and immediately board planes or buses to big cities where detection is
more difficult.

All Three Arrested

One of the Colombians, surreptitiously accompanied by an undercover agent,
boarded a plane and flew to Dallas. A few days earlier the two other aliens had
flown to Los Angeles, also with an undercover agent keeping them under
surveillance. All three were arrested as they left the planes.

According to the Government, the three were smuggled across the border, stayed
briefly at a motel, then were brought to the airport with tickets purchased by
the man identified at the time only as El Gato.

The man was later apprehended, and today the Government identified him as Jose
Rodolfo Terrio Carillo. Mr. Carillo, a slight, unkempt man, sat quietly through
the bond hearing. He is also charged with conspiracy to harbor and transport
illegal aliens.

At the hearing, the Government requested Mr. Navarrette be held without bond,
based on a tape recorded conversation with a fellow agent, Frederick Capio. In
the conversation, according to a Government attorney, Mr. Navarrette, while
denying threatening Mr. Capio specifically, described how a killer could be
hired for as little as $400 and how the victim ''could get it after he wasn't
even looking for it.''

Mr. Richardson acknowledged that the life of a Border Patrol agent is
frustrating and the potential temptations considerable.

''We have in the past several years been going through throes and woes about
corruption in the agency,'' he said. ''The majority of the complaints wind up
being unfounded. We've got a very high percentage of cadre that is honest.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              158 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             February 20, 1985, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Defendant's Location Disputed in Alien Case

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 202 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 19


Six witnesses testified in Federal District Court today that one of two people
accused of smuggling Central American refugees into the United States was in New
York the day the Government contends she was driving Salvadoran refugees to a
bus station in Texas.

The two defendants, Stacey Lynn Merkt and Jack Elder, are charged with
conspiracy, bringing illegal aliens into the country and transporting them.

Miss Merkt is accused of driving a Salvadoran couple and three juveniles to a
bus station in McAllen, Tex., and helping them board a bus to Houston Nov. 21.
But six people, including her fiance and Mr. Elder's mother-in-law, testified
she had arrived in New York Nov. 16 and had remained there until Nov. 23.

Prosecutors, who had rested their case, appeared surprised by the testimony and
asked few questions of the defense witnesses.

Earlier, a Salvadoran national, Jose Andres Mendez-Valle, testified that Border
Patrol agents promised to allow him and four companions to remain in the United
States if he testified against Miss Merkt and Mr. Elder.

Mr. Mendez-Valle, who testified that Miss Merkt had bought the bus tickets in
Texas, denied the Government had told him how to testify.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              159 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 22, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

LEADER IN MOVEMENT TO HARBOR ALIENS IS CONVICTED

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 472 words

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Feb. 21


A Federal jury today convicted a leader in the movement to provide sanctuary to
Latin American aliens.

Jack Elder, who is director of the Casa Oscar Romero shelter in San Benito,
Tex., was found guilty of conspiracy, of helping two Salvadorans enter the
United States illegally, and of driving two aliens from the Mexican border to
the shelter.

A co-defendant, Stacey Lynn Merkt, was found guilty of one count of conspiracy
but not guilty of two counts of transporting two illegal aliens.

Attorneys for the two defendants said they would appeal the verdicts.

Plan to Continue Activities

Mr. Elder, 41 years old, who directs the Roman Catholic Church-sponsored shelter
in San Benito, near the Mexican border, said his conviction on five charges
would not deter him from his activities.

''I'm proud that I am following the best traditions of my faith and our
country,'' Mr. Elder said.

Miss Merkt, 30, referring to El Salvador, said: ''I don't know whether to cry or
to yell about the injustices both here and there. I believe it is time to yell.
I will persevere. It's inconceivable that I was convicted when I am innocent.''

Sanctuary activists say they are helping Latin Americans on the premise that
international and United States laws, including the 1980 Refugee Act, grant
legal asylum to refugees who are fleeing political persecution and violence.

Mr. Elder could be sentenced to 30 years in prison and fined up to $28,000. Miss
Merkt faces a maximum sentence of five years in prison and a $10,000 fine.
Federal District Judge Filemon Vela set sentencing for March 27.

Miss Merkt, a volunteer at the shelter, is on two years' probation for a similar
conviction in May and could lose her probation pending the outcome of a March 15
hearing in Brownsville.

She was accused of taking the aliens from the shelter to a McAllen bus station
on Nov. 21.

Mr. Elder was acquitted last month on charges of transporting three Salvadorans
in March 1984. His defense maintained that he had not furthered the Salvadorans'
movement into the United States by merely giving them a ride to the bus station.

One of the Salvadorans in the latest case, Jose Andres Mendez Valle, identified
Mr. Elder and Miss Merkt as the Americans who helped him and four other aliens
after they crossed the border. Another Salvadoran with him, however, could not
identify the defendants.

Seven defense witnesses testified that Miss Merkt was in New York for a wedding
the week she was accused of driving the aliens to the bus station.

Defense attorneys contended that Border Patrol agents had coerced Mr. Mendez
into identifying the defendants as the people who helped them. Mr. Mendez
testified that Border Patrol agents offered him and the other aliens a trip to
the Washington home of their relatives if they cooperated.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Jack Elder and son and Stacey Lynn Merkt

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              160 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 16, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

BACKERS STUDYING IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 752 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 15


Several key supporters of a comprehensive immigration bill said today that they
were reconsidering their positions because of a decision by the House of
Representatives to include a program to bring aliens to the United States as
temporary workers to harvest perishable fruit and vegetables.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said he
had ''very, very serious questions'' about whether he could support the bill if
it authorized such a program.

Asked whether he would vote for the bill, the New Jersey Democrat said: ''I
haven't made up my mind. I'm in a dilemma.'' The House is expected to vote on
the full bill Tuesday or Wednesday.

Mr. Rodino said in an interview that he had been trying for 13 years to persuade
Congress to outlaw the hiring of illegal aliens because he wanted to protect
them from exploitation.

Aim of the Aliens Bill


The immigration bill, sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, would
prohibit the employment of illegal aliens. But Mr. Rodino said he feared that
the temporary worker program would allow the very type of exploitation he had
been trying to end.  How Mr. Rodino decides to vote will probably influence
other House members who respect his expertise in immigration law and his
judgment on civil rights questions. Mr. Rodino said he had heard from ''an
impressive number'' of lawmakers who liked some features of the original bill
and disliked others, but believed there was ''no reason to support it'' if it
included a temporary worker program.

In remarks on the floor today, Mr. Rodino said, ''The bill is not in such a
state of disrepair that members ought to vote against it.'' But he emphasized
that the bill must be ''balanced.''

Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who has played a central
role in floor debate on the bill this week, said the addition of the temporary
worker program, by a vote of 228 to 172 on Thursday, was converting him from a
supporter to an opponent of the bill. The temporary worker program was proposed
by Representative Leon E. Panetta, a California Democrat.

''With the Panetta amendment in the bill,'' Mr. Frank said, ''I'll vote no on
final passage.'' The temporary worker program, he said, resulted from ''an
overreach'' by farmers and their allies. ''They have endangered the bill,'' Mr.
Frank said.

Argument for Amendment


Supporters of the Panetta plan said that without the assistance of temporary
foreign workers, American farmers could not maintain their output of fruit and
vegetables. Mr. Panetta insisted the aliens would not be exploited and would not
reduce job opportunities for United States citizens.

Representative Hamilton Fish Jr. of upstate New York, the ranking Republican on
the Judiciary Committee, supported the Panetta amendment and said he saw no
reason that it might endanger the bill.

Mr. Mazzoli expressed confidence that he could still guide the bill successfully
through the House next week. He said he hoped the foreign worker program could
be modified in negotiations with the Senate to include greater protections for
the aliens. The Senate has twice voted to pass a comprehensive immigration bill,
by a margin of more than 4 to 1. The Senate bill does not create a special
foreign worker program for agriculture, but would make it easier for farmers to
bring in aliens under current law.

The House, meanwhile, began preliminary debate on whether to offer legal status
to illegal aliens already in this country. Mr. Mazzoli said he was delighted
that President Reagan had endorsed the amnesty for illegal aliens at his news
conference Thursday night.

Mr. Mazzoli said Mr. Reagan's statement would make it easier for House
Republicans to support the amnesty.

Mr. Reagan said the Reagan Administration supported a ''very generous amnesty''
for illegal aliens extending ''all the way up to 1982.'' The House bill would
give legal status to illegal aliens who have resided continuously in the United
States since Jan. 1, 1982.

Administration officials said today that Mr. Reagan had misstated the official
position of his Administration, which favors a two-tier amnesty program giving
legal status only to aliens who arrived before Jan. 1, 1980. Those who arrived
before 1977 would become permanent residents and those who arrived from January
1977 to December 1979 would become ''temporary residents.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              161 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 6, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION ;
Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By Caroline Rand Herron, Richard Levine and Michael Wright

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 2; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 197 words


On Back Burner




With squabbles among Democrats boiling over as they battle it out in the
primaries, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. again put a controversial
immigration bill on the back burner last week. California Democratic
Congressmen, who overwhelmingly oppose it, asked the Speaker to postpone debate
on the legislation, which has already been passed by the Senate, until after the
state's June 5 primary.

Although none of the California legislators faces a tough primary challenge,
they want to avoid a raising such a contentious issue; some Democrats support
the bill, which would penalize employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens and
would grant legal status to many aliens already in the country. Hispanic
American groups - as well as the Democratic Presidential candidates - are
critical of the measure, saying it would encourage job discrimination against
people of Hispanic descent. Organized labor, however, supports a ban on
employment of illegal aliens. Although the California Democrats may seek a
further delay on the bill, Mr. O'Neill has said he won't oblige them next time.
''This is definitely the last postponement,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              162 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 30, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

ANOTHER BRACERO FIASCO?

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 138 words


To the Editor:


Your support for the revival of a guest-worker program for foreign citizens
(editorial June 17) is based on a mistaken premise: that legal temporary workers
will help alleviate the ''illegal'' problem.

As Richard B. Craig, Julian Samora and others have shown, previous guest-worker,
or bracero, programs (from 1942 to 1964) actually added to the problem by
attracting hundreds of thousands of applicants to recruiting centers that could
supply only a handful of jobs. After sacrificing to come to the border, the
unsuccessful applicants went north in search of work. Do we really want to
institute a program that may worsen the immigration problem? I think not.

JULIE LEININGER PYCIOR Bronx, June 21, 1984

The writer is adjunct assistant professor of history at Fordham University.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              163 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 13, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION AGENTS VISIT OFFICES OF SPANISH-LANGUAGE NEWSPAPER

BYLINE: By JESUS RANGEL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31, Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 487 words


Agents of the Immigration and Naturalization Service visited the offices of the
Spanish-language newspaper El Diario this week to check the immigration papers
of three reporters and an editor.

The agents, who visited the newspaper offices on Varick Street in lower
Manhattan twice, said they were acting on information that the staff members
were in this country illegally.

James A. Jasey, deputy regional director of the service, said yesterday that the
visits were a ''routine operation.''

''The agents checked, were satisfied they were lawfully here in the United
States and the case was closed,'' he said.

Editor Denounces Visits


The paper's editor charged, however, that the visits were in retaliation for a
series of articles on conditions at a detention center operated by the
Immigration Service and its editorial positions against an immigration bill that
died in the session of Congress that ended yesterday.

''I don't accept their excuse for coming in here,'' said the editor, Manuel de
Dios Unanue. ''It was too much of a coincidence that three of the people they
wanted to talk to wrote the articles on Hispanics confined by the I.N.S.''

In an editorial yesterday, Mr. de Dios denounced the visits as ''militaristic
and fascist,'' and said they were an intrusion on the rights of a free press.

''Persecution and intimidating tactics do not scare us,'' the editorial said in
Spanish. ''Neither will they impede us from fulfillng our proper jounalistic
role.''

Two immigration agents had visited the offices Tuesday but none of the employees
was there, Mr. de Dios said. The editor said they returned Thursday and obtained
permission from an office staff member to check the status of the employees.

One Employee Out of Country


Mr. de Dios said he had learned of the return of the agents too late to deny
them permission to check the papers of three of the employees. A fourth, Susana
Pasternak, an assistant features editor and a native of Argentina, was out of
the country.

''If we hadn't gotten permisssion, we wouldn't go inside,'' said Mr. Jasey of
the immigation service.

Mr. de Dios, however, said the agents threatened to return to look at the
newspaper's personnel records to check on the status of other employees.

Two of the employees, Javier Martinez, a reporter and features editor, and
Carlos Perellon, a reporter and an assistant metropolitan editor, are from
Spain. Carlos Diaz, a reporter, is from the Dominican Republic. According to Mr.
de Dios, those three and Mrs. Pasternak all have spouses who are United States
citizens.

El Diario, with a circulation of about 60,000, is published every day but
Saturday. It has frequently published editorials against the legislation
designed to curb illegal immigration sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson,
Republican of Wyoming, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of
Kentucky.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              164 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 19, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

JAILS RUN BY PRIVATE COMPANY FORCE IT TO FACE QUESTION OF ACCOUNTABILITY

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1591 words


The growing trend toward privately operated jails has led to new questions about
accountability and prisoners' rights that are being addressed every day by the
Corrections Corporation of America, which operates detention facilities in
Texas, Tennessee and North Carolina.

The privately held company cares for more prisoners than any other nonpublic
concern. Put together in 1983 by the Massey Birch Investment group of Nashville,
which also provided financing for the Hospital Corporation of America, C.C.A.
has become a target for critics of private prisons and a model for other
operators.

With prisons severely crowded in the early 1980's, several companies moved to
own or operate correctional facilites. Today about two dozen detention centers,
including the four run by C.C.A., are privately operated. That trend will be the
subject of a three-day conference to begin in Washington tomorrow under the
auspices of the National Institute of Justice.

A dispute at the company's alien detention center in Houston exemplifies what
critics say is one growing problem for the privately operated correctional
facilities: who is accountable for the welfare of the incarcerated?

Proposal for a Library

The Rev. Roberto Flores of the Houston Center for Immigrants was concerned that
aliens held in the detention center grew increasingly depressed as they idled
away weeks and sometimes months. He suggested providing a library, and he said
others proposed counseling and English lessons.

But whenever they pressed for an official response, Father Flores said, they
were shunted between the Corrections Corporation of America, which owns and runs
the 350-bed center, and the Immigration and Naturalization Service, which
detained the aliens and oversees the institution.

Although officials finally set aside a room as a library, there is no librarian,
and the few donated books have disappeared. None of the other suggestions have
been put into effect.

''Whenever we have a problem, I.N.S. tells us to go to C.C.A., and C.C.A. tells
us to go to I.N.S.,'' Father Flores said.

John S. Robinson, a C.C.A. employee who administers the facility, said, ''We
have certain requirements under the contract that we have to abide by.''

A Range of Facilities

In addition to its Houston facility, C.C.A. is building a new immigration
service center in Laredo, Tex., and it runs a multipurpose facility in
Chattanooga, Tenn., a juvenile facility in Memphis and a 30-bed facility for the
Federal Bureau of Prisons in Fayetteville, N.C.

The Houston facility is also used by the Federal Bureau of Prisons to
incarcerate aliens convicted of crimes. They are kept separate from those the
immigration service suspects of being in this country illegally.

Critics consider corrections facilities an integral part of the criminal justice
system and question whether profits should be made from incarceration. In
addition to raising questions of accountability, they fear an assault on
prisoners' constitutional rights.

In a brochure, C.C.A. touts the benefits in efficiency to be reaped by
governments that do business with the company. ''Other benefits include reduced
pressure from the courts for reform and upgrading,'' it adds.

Model of Cleanliness

Is C.C.A. suggesting that it can help governments circumvent court-ordered
improvements in correctional facilities? ''Most courts ask for a demonstration
of good faith that a state or county will correct the problems,'' said Thomas
Beasley, the company's president. That demonstration of faith occurs, he said,
when a government signs a contract with his company.

The company's Houston facility, which opened in April, is a one-story model of
spaciousness and cleanliness. Men live in 50-bed dormitories. The company built
the center in six months at a cost of $4 million. Immigration officials say the
Federal Government would have needed up to five years to build a similar center
because of competitive bidding and other regulations.

''Our facilities don't begin to approach this one,'' said Paul O'Brien, district
director of the immigration service.

Travis Snellings, vice president for marketing of C.C.A., said the quality of
the facilities helped reduce personnel costs. ''Miserable working conditions,
low pay and low self-esteem produce worker absenteeism,'' he said. ''We don't
have nearly the turnover, absenteeism or overtime that plagues the public
sector.''

Cost Is Lower

The Federal Government spends $26.45 a day for each resident at its own
immigration detention centers. C.C.A. charges the Government $23.84.

Corrections officers hired by the company start at $14,500 a year, as against
$15,000 for those at the immigration service. Fringe benefits for the private
officers are far more meager, as is their training.

Immigration officers spend six weeks at the Federal Law Enforcement Training
Center at Glynco, Ga., for a total of 240 hours.

By comparison, C.C.A. says it gives its corrections officers 40 hours of
training, half of it in on-the-job settings, before they begin work, and an
additional 120 hours the first year. At the Houston facility, however, only 40
percent of the staff has had the additional 120 hours' training in the 10 months
since it opened.

'I'm the Supreme Court'

Mr. Robinson's job includes overseeing disciplinary cases that arise from
fighting or other infractions at the Houston facility. The cases are heard by
company employees. Penalties range from restriction to a dormitory to 72 hours
in isolation. ''I review every disciplinary action,'' Mr. Robinson said. ''I'm
the Supreme Court. ''

The case of a depressed 17-year-old woman who was sent to Mr. Robinson's
facility is related by Father Flores, the Rev. Thomas Sheehy, assigned by the
Roman Catholic Diocese of Galveston- Houston to handle liaison with the
immigration detention center, and Sister Carla Maria Crabtree, diocesan director
of Hispanic ministries.

The alien, a native of El Salvador, was apprehended in July and placed in a
county facility. In September she was transferred to the C.C.A. facility, where
she worked in the kitchen and earned the customary $3 a day. Her friends,
disturbed by her depression sought vainly to alert the company to the problem,
but not until Thanksgiving, when she was catatonic, was she seen by a
psychiatrist and taken to Ben Taub Hospital in Houston. Ultimately, Father
Sheehy took her to Reynosa, Mexico, to be with family members.

''They certainly did not act on it right away,'' Father Sheehy said. ''If they
had a psychotherapist, I'm sure they would have picked it up sooner.''

Budget Problems Cited

The facility has no room for a psychotherapist in its budget, however, according
to both company and immigration officials. Immigration officials said that in
Federal facilities, inmates with obvious emotional problems were routinely seen
by psychiatrists of the United States Public Health Service.

The company also runs a medium-security adult facility in Chattanooga. Dalton
Roberts, the Hamilton County Executive, cited cost and efficiency as the main
reasons for turning to private operation.

C.C.A. charges $21 an inmate a day, $1 a day less than it cost the county. The
company took over the 325-bed facility in October and offered to hire all the
county employees who had worked there. Most joined the company.

For some time, many small juvenile facilities have been run by private
companies. C.C.A. runs Tall Trees, a facility in Memphis for 35 youths. Shelby
County pays $33.25 a day for each youth, less than half the cost at the state
training school.

The youths attend the public schools. But about a dozen inmates spent one recent
morning in the day room, silently watching television. Tim Maguigan,
administrator of the facility, said that counselors did not arrive until after
school, and youths who did not attend school were left to fend for themselves.

''We have a small staff,'' Mr. Maguigan said. ''We don't have any fat.''

A more ambitious juvenile treatment center, the Weaversville Intensive Treatment
Unit, outside Allentown, Pa., was established by the RCA Corporation in 1976.

''We deal with the serious chronic offender,'' said Henry J. Gursky, the project
manager. ''It's a dangerous business. The worst possible scenarios do occur.''

Each of the 22 inmates, 14 to 18 years old, has either committed a violent
felony, such as armed robbery, rape or arson, or a string of lesser crimes, such
as burglaries or assaults. About 85 percent have drug-related problems.

The building resembles a college dormitory. The residents have keys to their own
carpeted rooms.

''Physically, this is better than most of their homes,'' Mr. Gursky said. ''But
what isn't cushy is that we see their every move. Emotionally, it's very
tense.'' An inmate hanged himself in November.

People who oversee juvenile facilities know that many, perhaps most, of their
charges will have lives of crime, but they are buoyed by their successes.

Newer private operators, such as the Corrections Corporation of America, are
optimistic as they begin to build their track records. In the nine years the
Weaversville facility has been operating, Mr. Gursky says, 5 youths went on to
college and 10 went into the military.

''I feel that there's a large spiritual component to this job,'' Mr. Gursky
said. ''There's a higher authority who's going to ask, 'What did you do with
those kids I gave you?' ''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              165 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 25, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

DEPORTING OF DAUGHTER OF SPY FOR U.S. BARRED

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 553 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, March 24


A Federal judge here has blocked an attempt by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to deport the daughter of a man described as this
country's top spy in the Philippines in World War II.

In the ruling Friday, Bernard J. Hornbach, an administrative law judge, canceled
the deportation hearings for Belen Guido Ver, 59 years old, the daughter of Col.
Jose de Guido.

Judge Hornbach ruled Friday that the Immigration and Naturalization Service had
failed in its obligation to inform Mrs. Ver that she had been granted permanent
residence status by a special act of Congress in 1949 and that the agency could
not withhold that status from her now.

End to 'Injustice'


''The injustice which has occurred in this case will not be perpetuated,'' Judge
Hornbach said.

After the hearing, Mrs. Ver said she was ''happy and grateful'' and hoped to
become a naturalized citizen.

Mrs. Ver is one of three surviving children of Colonel de Guido, who worked for
American intelligence in his native country, both before and during the Japanese
occupation of the Philippines, gathering information and assisting American
soldiers caught behind enemy lines. The Japanese executed him and three of his
sons in 1945.  In 1949, in recognition of Colonel de Guido's service to the
United States, Congress granted permanent resident status to his widow and
children who were living in this country on temporary visas. The bill, signed by
President Truman that year, directed the Immigration and Naturalization Service
to record the beneficiaries of the bill. To that end, two weeks after the bill
was signed, the State Department informed the Immigration and Naturalization
Service of the visa numbers assigned to the family.

Never Learned of Bill


But the family was never informed of its new status. When Colonel de Guido's
widow became ill in 1951, the entire family abandoned hope of ever becoming
permanent residents and returned to the Philippines. Belen Guido, one of the
Colonel's two daughters, married and raised five children over the next 32 years
in Manila. In 1982, while she was living temporarily in the United States for
business reasons, Mrs. Ver learned through her attorney about the passage of the
special law.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service concedes that it never informed her
that the law had passed and that her status had changed. But Jane Leroe, an
agency attorney, argued at the deportation hearing Friday that immigration
officials had no statutory duty to so notify Mrs. Ver.

Miss Leroe argued that Mrs. Ver had become a permanent resident when President
Truman signed the bill into law and that she had abandoned that status by living
outside the United States for so many years.

Martin J. Lawler, the San Francisco lawyer who represented Mrs. Ver at the
hearing, told Judge Hornbach that his client could not have given up a right she
did not know she had. The immigration agency's failure to inform Mrs. Ver of her
lawful status ''voids a legislative enactment,'' Mr. Lawler said.

Judge Hornbach ruled that Mrs. Ver's ignorance of her true legal status did not
mean that she had forfeited the rights given to her by Congress in 1949 and
canceled the deportation proceedings. Miss Leroe said the Government would
appeal the ruling.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              166 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 13, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SOME GREEKS FIND PROMISE OF U.S. FADES

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1024 words


For Emmanuel Sofos at 25, the American fantasy has faded and he is seriously
considering going home to the Greek island of Kos.

Mr. Sofos came to New York City seven years ago to finish his studies. He
graduated as a computer technician in 1981 but has not been able to find a job
in his specialty. So he is working in a Manhattan restaurant.

''There's no joy here; I feel like a robot,'' he complained the other day.

His recently arrived wife, Stamathia, does not speak English. She is afraid to
be alone at night because of robberies in their neighborhood in Astoria, Queens.

But there are other Greek immigrants living in Astoria who say they would not
think about going back to Greece. Nicholas Valaskadgis, an auto mechanic who
arrived here six years ago, says: ''Life is better here than in Greece. The
system here works better, the trains, the banks, the traffic, and if you work
hard, you can get ahead.''



A Growing Unhappiness

His wife, Peristera, who came here three years ago, agrees. She said she was
happy to have found a Greek environment in Astoria to bring up their 2-month-old
daughter.

But for the first time, a growing number of Greek immigrants are thinking about
leaving the United States and returning to Greece, according to interviews and
the results of a survey to be published shortly. The survey, entitled Needs of
the Growing Greek-American Community of New York City, was done by the Hellenic
American Neighborhood Action Committee and financed by New York City's
Department of Employment.

''What we found is that Greeks are beginning to question seriously whether they
made the right decision to immigrate,'' Dr. Theoni Velli-Spyropoulos, director
of the survey, said in a recent interview. ''They are now asking: Why are we
here?''

The main reason for the new doubts is the narrowing gap between the quality of
life in Greece and the United States, according to Dr. Velli-Spyropoulos, a
psychologist who heads the action committee's Child and Family Counseling
Service.

There are hopeful messages coming out of Greece, particularly about the tourism
boom and improvements in rural life, Dr. Velli-Spyropoulos said. On the other
hand, the general mood among Greeks who have come to America is increasingly
glum because of rising costs, particularly for education. Dr. Velli-Spyropoulos
also cited poor-paying jobs, the upsurge of crime, drugs and family problems in
the Greek community, which until lately largely considered itself immune from
such concerns.

The main characteristic of the Greek immigrant community in New York City is a
heightened feeling of ''transiency'' and ''marginality'' compared with American-
born Greeks, according to the final draft of the study.



Quality of Life Close

The survey was based on interviews with 507 immigrants and American-born Greeks
in 1978 and 1979, and recent interviews confirm the situation.

''In general, the quality of life and the potential for developing are not as
different between the United States and Greece as they used to be, or at least
they are not perceived to be as different,'' the study concludes. It points out
that Greek-immigrant expectations were higher when the survey was done and, as a
result, came into ''conflict with the realities of the possibilities to
advance.'' Immigration from Greece is decreasing. It is now under 9,000 a year.
About 9,000 came to the United States each year from 1977 through 1980,
according to the Greek Consul General, Nicholas Capellaris. At the same time,
the number of Greeks returning home or preparing to return is growing, he said,
although he was not able to give exact figures.

According to most reliable estimates from Greek organizations, there are about
1.5 million Greek immigrants or people of Greek descent in the United States,
with about 450,000 in New York City.



Bit of Greece in Queens

The Greeks sometimes call Astoria ''Little Athens.'' For people who cannot get
to Greece, it is the next best thing, only 15 minutes by subway from Times
Square to another world. Along the lively boulevards there are Greek fruit
markets, restaurants, pastry shops and butchers who sell suckling goats and
piglets.

There are Greek Orthodox churches, cafes that serve pungent Greek coffee and
nightclubs where Greeks can let themselves go with their traditional dances and
bouzouki music. On the streets of Astoria, people tend to speak more Greek than
English; in the subways they read the local Greek newspapers and at home they
listen to Greek-language radio shows.

Astoria has the largest Greek community outside Greece, an estimated 75,000 to
100,000 people of Greek descent.

The first Greeks to arrive in New York City in large numbers came at the turn of
the century. They settled on the Lower East Side, later moving to the West Side
along Eighth Avenue between 14th and 45th Streets. They were attracted to
Astoria by its proximity to Manhattan and the neat red-brick, three-family homes
with gardens.



'Greeks Pursued Success'

Greeks began to move there in large numbers with the relaxation of immigration
laws in the 1950's and 1960's. Many started out as fruit and flower peddlers,
and now own florist shops, groceries and restaurants.

''Greeks pursued success and were ready to work hard here because of the upward
mobility, while back home all they could do was sit in a cafe on Omonia Square
and talk politics,'' George Douris, who heads a public-relations concern, said
recently. Mr. Douris grew up in Astoria but moved to Long Island as many of the
more successful Greek- Americans have done.

Mr. Douris likes to tell how he founded the Hellenic American Neighborhood
Action Committee, which is known as HANAC.

''My mother went in to see Mayor Lindsay in 1970 and asked him what he could do
for the poor old Greeks and other senior citizens in Astoria,'' Mr. Douris
recalls. ''The Mayor called for a proposal and that way HANAC was set up with
city, state and Federal funds. Today it has 1,100 employees, covers the five
boroughs, concentrates on the Greeks but takes care of everybody who needs
help.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Greek dance; photo of storefronts on 30th Avenue in Astoria

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              167 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 15, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

ISRAELIS BID U.S. READMIT BLACKS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 17, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 916 words

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, April 14


Israel has asked the United States to take back stateless black Americans who
renounced their citizenship as part of their membership in a cult calling itself
the Black Hebrews.

The Black Hebrews are a group of roughly 1,000 American blacks who say they are
descended from the original Jews and have settled - most without official
consent - in southern Israel.

As far as the Israeli Government is concerned, most of the Black Hebrews have no
legal status in Israel, since they came in on three-month tourist visas and
simply stayed on, and they have no rabbinically recognized connection to
Judaism.

An Israeli Interior Ministry official said that to make them citizens would
contradict both the letter and the spirit of Israeli law; to expel them, he
said, would be awkward and perhaps logistically impossible because the United
States could put noncitizens right back onto a plane to Israel.

U.S. Considers Them Aliens

The United States has taken the position that these stateless Americans must go
through normal immigration procedures as aliens, regardless of whether they were
once American citizens.

The Interior Ministry official said in an interview that Israel also wanted the
United States to make extradition requests for Black Hebrews who are sought by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and to guarantee that it will take back any
Black Hebrews that Israel decides to expel.

''After all, they were born in the United States, they came from the United
States, and even if they renounced their citizenship, the American Government
can't ignore them,'' the official said.

According to Melvyn Coleman, a former member of the cult now trying to return to
the United States, he and about 80 other Black Hebrews renounced their American
citizenship to prevent deportation from Israel and to ''prove our dedication to
our roots.''

'I Want to Go Home'

Mr. Coleman came to Israel from Chicago's South Side when he was 19 years old
and a leading member of the Black Hebrews. Today, at 32, he has left the cult
after a dispute with its leader, Ben Ami Carter, and wants to leave the country
as well, but as a stateless person with neither a United States nor an Israeli
passport, he cannot even board a plane. ''I haven't been out of Israel in 12
consecutive years and I want to go home,'' he said in a telephone interview.

Asked about the Israeli request that the United States take back the former
Black Hebrews, a spokesman for the American Embassy said he could not comment on
''confidential judicial communications.''

Speaking of individual former Black Hebrews who have applied for re-entry -
three of them in recent months - the spokesman said, ''On a humanitarian basis
we are trying to help those people within the limits of the law.''

The Interior Ministry official urged that the United States cooperate with the
Israeli request to help solve what he called the ''Black Hebrew problem.'' He
said that most of the 80 who had renounced their citizenship were male heads of
families, leaders in the cult.

No Applications Approved Yet

Embassy officials said they were working on the applications submitted by the
former Black Hebrews, but the Interior Ministry official said not one of those
who had applied recently had been granted entry.

A consular official in Tel Aviv said that ''once someone renounces his American
citizenship he is an alien in the eyes of the United States.''

''The act of renunciation is a very serious act,'' she said. ''You cannot change
your mind and just become an American citizen again 10 years later.''

Many former American citizens who have take part fully in the Black Hebrew cult
are ineligible for immigrant visas because they have criminal records or have
been involved in bigamy, which some former members say is approved by the cult.

However, there may be mitigating circumstances. Aliens with parents or spouses
in the United States fall into a special, easy-entry category; also, the
consular official said that an arrangement known as ''humanitarian parole''
might be applicable to former Black Hebrews.

'Some Kind of Collusion' Charged

According to Deborah Millgram, acting secretary of the Jerusalem chapter of the
Association for Americans and Canadians in Israel, there seems to be ''some kind
of collusion in reference to all the Black Hebrews, and the policy is to make it
all difficult.'' Mrs. Millgram has been trying to help Charles Taylor, 32, a
former Black Hebrew who did not renounce his citizenship but admitted having
entered Israel on his cousin's passport. He has been unable to obtain a valid
passport of his own here despite efforts over some five years.

Although Mr. Taylor has led ''a very straight and honorable life,'' according to
Mrs. Millgram, the Israeli Government has not granted him any legal status.
Without working papers, Mr. Taylor said in a telephone interview, he has had to
take menial jobs and has found it difficult to support his three children. ''I
would like to re-establish my life in a normal manner,'' he said.

In addition, he said, ''When I left I was informed by some of the members who
stayed that Ben Ami Carter put a contract out on me.''

''I've been told that many want to leave now,'' he said, ''but they're stuck
there, they're trapped.''

Mr. Carter called the accusation that he had sought to have Mr. Taylor killed
''a diabolical lie,'' declaring that he ''wouldn't put that kind of a value on
him.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              168 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AGENCIES BATTLE TO CONTROL U.S. BORDER INSPECTIONS

BYLINE: By LESLIE MAITLAND WERNER

SECTION: Section A; Page 15, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1378 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 6


Efforts to streamline the system of clearing travelers into the country have hit
roadblocks, Senate aides and Administration officials say.

The goal of reorganizing entry inspections is being threatened by power battles
between the Customs Service and the Immigration Service, battles that are joined
by the Congressional committees that oversee them and the Treasury and Justice
Departments.

Nearly everyone agrees there is no reason to make travelers wait to be cleared
twice, by immigration and customs officials. An end to this has been urged for
more than 30 years, but calls for change have increased with the approach of the
Olympics in Los Angeles.

Right now, a Customs Service spokesman on the West Coast says, it takes about 45
minutes to get through customs and immigration in Los Angeles but things get so
jammed sometimes that passengers are held aboard airplanes on the ground as long
as 30 minutes before they debark. Although facilities are expected to be
expanded for the Olympics, change in the basic double inspection system in time
for the games is unlikely.

Millions Screened Each Year


Nationwide, 252 million people enter the country's land borders annually,
returning United States citizens and foreigners alilke, and 32 million more come
in at seaports and airports.

Dennis Murphy, a spokesman for the Customs Service, said a number of factors
affected how long a traveler must wait: the port of arrival, the season and the
time of day. An American arriving at Kennedy International Airport from abroad,
he said, offering an example, would cope with all formalities with one stop and
this should take 30 minutes. Foreign visitors at Kennedy must stop at both the
Customs and Immigration Services.

According to Mr. Murphy, there are 28 other airports that use such a system. In
addition, he said, there are nine airports with a relatively low volume where
foreigners and Americans are checked only once.

Everywhere else, he said, Americans and foreigners alike are checked separately
by immigrations and customs.

There was nearly a riot in the New Year's period of 1983 at Miami International
Airport, where passengers had to wait as much as four hours to enter the
country. And at peak season at Kennedy, an Immigration Service official said, it
was ''not uncommon for arriving passengers to endure waits of up to two hours''
aboard planes or in hallways.

In many respects, the dispute over solving this problem is a textbook example of
how the competing interests of agencies can block reform.

'Bureaucratic Wrangling'


''It's all bureaucratic wrangling,'' said Edward C. Schmults, a former Deputy
Attorney General who has been involved in the problem through two rounds of
negotiations, 10 years apart. Last year he represented the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, which is part of the Justice Department, and in 1973 he
was in the Treasury Department and represented its agency, the Customs Service.

''It's wrangling for personnel, resources and jurisdiction,'' Mr. Schmults said.
''Bureaucrats won't let you change, and Congressional committees won't let you
change. They all want to have as much of the world to rule as they can. They
forget the convenience of the passenger.''

The Reagan Administration has developed a plan to give both services a share of
the inspection mission. But even Administration officials who devised it say it
is not ideal.

Those who consider it important to consolidate inspections are disappointed with
the compromise, developed last fall by Joseph R. Wright, the Deputy Director of
the Office of Management and Budget, working with Mr. Schmults and his
counterpart at the Treasury Department, Deputy Secretary R. T. McNamar.

Under the plan, the Immigration Service would have jurisdiction for land
borders, where its inspectors would continue to search for people trying to
enter the country illegally but would also take on examining of luggage.

The Customs Service would have jurisdiction over seaports and airports, where it
would examine papers as well as luggage. At all stations, a small backup team of
the other agency would be on hand.

Under the plan, 622 customs inspectors and 165 customs patrol officers would be
transferred to the Immigration Service, while 505 immigration inspectors would
go to the Customs Service. The net loss of 282 Customs positions is one reason
that service, along with its Congressional committees, is more opposed to the
plan than the Immigration Service and its supporters.

Previous Cuts in Personnel


They note that the Customs Service lost 400 positions last year and that the
Administration is seeking to cut 950 more in its budget for the 1985 fiscal
year.

In the Senate and House, there is strong feeling that the Administration
provided no solution. Consolidation has been urged by Congressional committees,
as well as by a recent study on reducing waste, directed by the industrialist J.
Peter Grace.

Mr. Wright said consolidation had proved politically unworkable. He said giving
everything to one agency would have created a struggle between Treasury
Secretary Donald T. Regan and Attorney General William French Smith. ''In that
case, the President couldn't have made a decision,'' Mr. Wright said.

A King Solomon Role


As a result, Mr. Wright said in an interview, he was forced to compromise.

''I fully agree this does not go all the way,'' Mr. Wright said. ''But it's a
step in the right direction. Congress thrust it on O.M.B. to find a solution. We
found one that we thought was politically palatable.''

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said that
''certainly there have been 'turf' problems.'' He conceded that an earlier
proposal to consolidate the inspection process in the Customs Service had been
abandoned because of opposition by his agency.

Charles Parkinson, clerk to the Republican majority on the Treasury, Postal
Service and General Government Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations
Committee, said such problems existed in Congress as well.

'Bones' Thrown to Each Side


''The big problem is a turf problem'' that includes the committees in the
Senate, Mr. Parkinson said.

Mr. Parkinson said Senator James Abdnor, the South Dakota Republican who was
chairman of the subcommittee, believed the Administration ''basically threw
bones out to each side.''

Robert Mills, clerk to the Democratic minority on the subcommittee, agreed that
the plan only further fragmented the inspections system.

Mr. Parkinson said there was ''considerable concern on the Hill'' that the loss
of further Customs positions would damage the service, ''particularly in terms
of narcotics enforcement.''

While Customs and Treasury officials are obliged to support the Administration's
compromise publicly, privately they have opposed it.

In a letter to Mr. Wright last fall, a copy of which was obtained by the Senate
subcommittee, Deputy Treasury Secretary McNamar said the plan had ''little
merit,'' would weaken narcotics enforcement and subject the Administration to
''ridicule'' for solving problems of fragmentation by further fragmentation.

A Bill in Trouble


Mr. Parkinson and other Senate aides said opposition was sufficiently strong
that it might jeopardize passage of a bill to grant the President the authority
for limited reorganizations in the executive branch. Administration officials
and Senate aides said they believed passage of this bill was needed for
execution of the proposal on border inspections.

The House has already passed the bill, but in the Senate, the bill is being held
up because of the border issue.

President Reagan has wanted such a bill since soon after he took office, and
Senators opposed to the border plan hope he will give the plan up rather than
lose the current measure, Senate aides said.

Even if the bill passes, however, Mr. Parkinson said, it will give Congress 90
days to examine any proposed reorganization and the power to reject it. A
maneuver that indefinitely delays a vote on the bill, as well as the 90-day
review period entailed in the bill, makes it unlikely the border plan could win
approval this session, he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              169 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 3, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HOMOSEXUAL, A U.S. RESIDENT 19 YEARS, FACES DEPORTATION

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 40, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 942 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, June 2


The Immigration and Naturalization Service will begin immediate deportation
proceedings against a businessman who did not acknowledge his homosexuality when
he was admitted to the United States in 1965, the director of the agency's local
office says.

The move follows the United States Supreme Court's refusal Tuesday to hear an
appeal in the case, letting stand lower-court decisions denying citizenship to
Richard John Longstaff.

''From the immigration service's standpoint, the issue is not homosexuality,''
said Ron Chandler, the Dallas director. ''The law is on the books, and we're
merely enforcing that law. We don't discriminate against anyone.''

Though officials do not inquire about sexual orientation when a foreigner seeks
to enter the United States, Federal law still bars homosexual aliens, along with
psychopaths and those with mental defects.

When Mr. Longstaff, a Briton, first sought to become a citizen nine years ago,
he said yes when asked if he was homosexual. But a decade earlier, when applying
for status as a permanent resident, he had said no when asked if he was
afflicted with a ''psychopathic personality.''

Strong Reaction Seen


Now 44 years old, Mr. Longstaff is preparing for an extension of his long legal
fight. ''If they start deportation hearings against me, I think there is going
to be a fervor much greater than what happened during the Anita Bryant
campaign,'' he said, referring to the singer's 1977 effort to overturn a
homosexual rights law in Miami. ''I think it's going to hurt and upset so many
gay people, they are now going to look at their own lives and see what security
they have in this country.''

The day after his appeal was denied, Mr. Longstaff was back at work, greeting a
swarm of supporters from behind the front counter of the Union Jack, his
clothing and haircut emporium here. He answered a flurry of telephone calls,
some from opponents. ''Nothing really threatening, just nastiness,'' Mr.
Longstaff said. ''They say, 'Faggot, go home.' And the religious types are all
trying to save me.''

Mr. Longstaff and his lawyers had hoped the Supreme Court would hear the case
because of a ruling last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit in San Francisco that a medical certification of homosexuality was
required to deny entry to an alien. The Public Health Service discontinued that
practice in 1979, saying homosexuality could not be determined through medical
examination.

Mr. Longstaff's legal battles began in 1975, when he decided to seek
citizenship. At his first interview with I.N.S. agents, Mr. Longstaff said, he
was asked about homosexuality. The agent ''pointed his finger at me and said,
'Are you gay?' '' he recalled. ''And I said yes. It was either do that or lie. I
later got a letter saying they were going to deny my application.''

Interviews and Investigations


He wrote Congressman Jim Mattox, now the Attorney General of Texas, and his case
was reopened. At an interview with immigration officials in Dallas, Mr.
Longstaff was ''interrogated on how many times I had sex, where and how long,
and how long between intervals,'' he said. When he refused to answer questions
about his sex life, Mr. Longstaff said, he was told his application for
naturalization would be denied because of lack of candor.

More interviews and investigation of Mr. Longstaff's friends, customers and
business associates were conducted in Houston and Dallas and the case went
before Federal District Judge Joe E. Estes in 1979. ''He kept screaming, 'Are
you a homosexual?' '' Mr. Longstaff said. ''I felt it was none of the
Government's business.'' The application was denied because of lack of candor,
moral turpitude and violation of a Texas sexual conduct law.

An appeals court ordered a new trial, and in 1982 Judge Estes again denied Mr.
Longstaff's petition, because he had entered the country illegally by not
disclosing his homosexuality.

''Illegal entry, in my case, was not claiming myself as a homosexual and a
psychopath when I entered this country,'' he said. ''There was one question on
the medical document: 'Are you a psychopathic personality?' I said no.
Unbeknownst to me, I was a psychopathic personality, according to American
laws.''

Situation Called Unique


Another appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit failed, leading to
the Supreme Court action.

Mr. Longstaff now charges that his civil rights have been violated and believes
that he has been singled out for harassment. ''I know they want to get me out of
the country,'' he said. ''But why? Someone in the immigration department must
have a terrible homophobic complex.''

Mr. Longstaff's Dallas attorney, Brian Bates, says his client is caught in a
unique situation. ''He is the only person that I have ever heard of who's ever
been asked about sexual preference at a naturalization interview,'' Mr. Bates
said. ''The only way someone can be excluded from the country now is if they
walked in and said, 'Hello, I'm a homosexual.' ''

One alternative would be to take the case to the Ninth Circuit court, whose
ruling on medical certification stands for nine Western states. ''But I would
have to take up residence there,'' Mr. Longstaff said, ''and because of my
business this is an impossibility..''

He is unsure of his next step, except for being certain that he will not leave
voluntarily. ''This is the most fabulous country in the world and I wanted to be
a part of it,'' he said. ''If I didn't apply for naturalization, and had stayed
a permanent resident, this never would have been a problem.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              170 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CAMPAIGN NOTES;
Jackson Bid for Meeting With Foes Turned Aside

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 130 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 16


The Rev. Jesse Jackson announced today that he wants to meet Monday with his two
rivals for the Democratic nomination for President and Lane Kirkland, the
president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial
Organizations, on a much- disputed immigration bill. He was rebuffed
immediately.

''I am publicly requesting a meeting with Lane Kirkland, Walter Mondale and Gary
Hart no later than his coming Monday to prevent the Simpson-Mazzoli bill from
either being passed or going to conference,'' Mr. Jackson said.

A spokesman for Mr. Mondale said he was ''going to be in Minnesota on Monday and
won't be able to come back for a meeting,'' and spokesman for the labor
federation spokesman said Mr. Kirkland was in Europe. The Hart campaign had no
comment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              171 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TWO MEN WHO FASHIONED IMMIGRATION BILL AND LED IT THROUGH CONGRESS;
ROMANO MAZZOLI DEVOTED FOUR YEARS OF QUIET, RELETNLESS WORK TO MEASURE

BYLINE: By STEVEN V. ROBERTS

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 814 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


The ordeal was almost over and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli was all but
spent. ''I was at my mother's this weekend and I almost fell asleep into the
spaghetti,'' he said.

The Kentucky Democrat lost 12 pounds along with his sleep, and his face took on
a gaunt look. But he won a four-year battle in the House over altering the
nation's immigration laws when the House voted today to approve legislation that
Mr. Mazzoli and Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, wrote. The
Senate passed a slightly different version last year.

''I'm going to carve a very modest role around this place,'' said Mr. Mazzoli, a
14-year veteran of the House who seems to believe in his own obscurity. ''But I
wanted to prove to the country and to the leadership that we could deal with an
emotionally laden and divisive subject in a way that brought credit to the
House.''

Immigration is one of the most emotional issues Congress ever considers, and the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill contains two sections that rankle large numbers of voters.
The House and Senate versions give legal status to aliens who came here
illegally but have been here for a number of years, and both impose penalties on
employers who knowingly hire illegal workers.

Assailed From Both Sides


Accordingly Mr. Mazzoli has been assailed from both sides and the 51- year-old
lawmaker jokes: ''I used to be 6 foot 7 until they kept pounding me down. Then I
became 5 foot 9.''

In an unusual tribute to the lawmaker some of his colleagues took the floor at
one late-night session to praise his stewardship of the bill. Representative
Abraham Kazen Jr., Democrat of Texas, said Mr. Mazzoli had taken criticism
''bordering on abuse,'' but in the end he ''has really withstood one of the
sternest tests'' ever faced by a Congressman.

The most common criticism of the bill is that it would cause employers to
discriminate against Hispanic and other foreign-looking workers.

''He doesn't understand the importance of the bill in the Hispanic community,''
said Representative Bill Richardson, Democrat of New Mexico whose mother was
born in Mexico. ''It's a blind spot with him, but an honest blind spot. He's a
very fair man.''

'A Conservative Guy'

A liberal Democrat on the Judiciary Committee added, ''Remember he's a
conservative guy. He votes with the Republicans as much as with the Democrats.''

Representative Don Edwards, Democrat of California, who opposed the bill, said
Mr. Mazzoli ''plays hardball'' when it comes to legislation but plays it well.
''He just very skillfully overcame all the roadblocks,'' Mr. Edwards said.

Mr. Mazzoli's father left Northern Italy 70 years ago and settled in Louisville
where he worked as a tile setter. The younger Mazzoli was first elected to
Congress by 211 votes and has had, by his own testimony, a ''constant struggle''
to keep his seat against Republican challengers.

He made few ripples in his first 10 years in the House and says of himself:
''Some people are flamboyant and some are not. I'm one of the are nots.'' But in
1980 Elizabeth Holtzman, the New York Democrat who headed the subcommittee on
Immigration, Refugees and International Law, left Congress to make an
unsuccessful run for the Senate.

Bill Blocked in House


As a result of this ''purely accidental'' development, Mr. Mazzoli inherited the
post and began what he calls his ''roller-coaster odyssey.'' The Simpson-Mazzoli
bill passed the Senate twice in the next three years but was repeatedly blocked
in the House when Hispanic groups convinced Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the Speaker
of the House, that it would harm their constituents.

The three surviving Democratic Presidential contenders opposed the bill because
of its employer sanctions. The measure received another blow when Representative
Kent Hance, Democrat of Texas, almost won his party's Senatorial nomination by
attacking the bill's plan to legalize millions of aliens.

That race revealed the political pitfalls in the bill and Mr. Mazzoli says the
Hance campaign ''broke my heart.'' Indeed, Mr. Mazzoli's Republican foe this
year is attacking him for spending so much time trying to legalize undocumented
workers.

Speaker O'Neill eventually agreed that the House should debate the measure, but
the Speaker was so cool to the bill that the sponsor felt he was trying to
''kill it with apathy.'' Mr. Mazzoli was on his own and when the bill first came
to the floor last week the Kentuckian had so few allies he was constantly
scurrying around lobbying his colleagues to support his bill.

But after a day or two the House came to realize that the Simpson- Mazzoli bill
was going to pass. Four years of quiet but relentless effort were coming to a
climax.

''Mazzoli was enormously effective at building coalitions and getting votes,''
conceded Mr. Richardson. ''He whipped us good.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              172 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 21, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

TWO MEN WHO FASHIONED IMMIGRATION BILL AND LED IT THROUGH CONGRESS;
SENATOR ALAN SIMPSON'S INTERVENTION WITH O'NEILL LED TO HOUSE DEBATE

BYLINE: By MARTIN TOLCHIN

SECTION: Section D; Page 22, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 819 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 20


Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, sat in front of a bronze
sculpture of a cowboy on a bucking bronco and watched the House debate on a
television set that was on his office floor. The debate, on the immigration
bill, would probably not have occurred at all had he not interceded last winter
with the House Speaker, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr.

Mr. O'Neill, who had regarded the legislation as a no-win proposition without a
constituency, had blocked consideration of the bill by the full House last fall.

To Mr. Simpson, it seemed then that the immigration bill he had shepherded
through the Senate had reached the end of the line. In desperation, he sought
and obtained an audience with the Speaker. The Senator spoke of the nation's
need to control its borders and assured Mr. O'Neill that President Reagan had no
intention of embarrassing the House Democrats by vetoing the bill. In a
relatively rare occurrence, the Speaker reversed himself and restored the bill
to the House calendar.

''Tip saw I wasn't out trying to hose him,'' said Mr. Simpson, meaning that he
had no intention of trying to take advantage of the Speaker.  Mr. Simpson, a
tall, baldish, genial man, is regarded as a natural legislator by most of his
colleagues. He is a leading practitioner of the politics of consensus, which he
learned from his father, Milward Simpson, a former Governor of Wyoming who
preceded him to the Senate and who remains a close adviser. A candidate for
re-election, Mr. Simpson does not yet have a Democratic opponent.

If he stays in the Senate, many predict a leadership role for the 52-year old
freshman Senator, who is known for his candor and wit. In some respects, he is
in the mold of the Senate majority leader, Howard H. Baker Jr., Republican of
Tennessee, who will retire this year. Mr. Simpson, an unvarnished conservative,
is respected by his party's moderates and liberals. Like Mr. Baker, his politics
is low key, and he seldom allows it to interfere with his personal relationships
with his colleagues.

''Legislation is dry, tough stuff,'' the Senator said. ''It's fun if it's done
right, without cloying partisanship and trying to stick it to the other guy.''

List of Legislative Victories


As a freshman in the Senate, he has compiled a remarkable record of legislative
achievement. Mr. Simpson, chairman of the immigration subcommittee of the Senate
Judiciary Committee, is best known for his successful sponsorship of the
immigration bill that he worked out with Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, the House sponsor, and that bears both their names.

But Mr. Simpson has had other legislative victories. As chairman of the Veterans
Affairs Committee he won Senate approval for legislation that set up a mechanism
to weigh the claims of veterans exposed to the herbicide Agent Orange. As
chairman of the nuclear regulation subcommittee of Environment and Public Works
Committee, he sponsored successful legislation on disposal of nuclear wastes.

The ranking Democrats on his committees are Gary Hart of Colorado, on nuclear
regulation; Alan Cranston of California, on veterans; and Edward M. Kennedy of
Massachusetts, on immigration.

''I thought all three might run for President,'' Mr. Simpson recalled. ''I told
each of them, 'Don't use the committee for your Presidential quest, and I won't
use it to embarrass you in any way.'''

Mr. Kennedy, perhaps the Senate's preeminent liberal, praises Mr. Simpson for
responsive. However, he recalls that while working on the immigration bill ''I
differed with him on occasion.''

At one committee session, when Mr. Kennedy was became emotional in arguing
unsuccessfully against the elimination of an immigration preference for the
brothers and sisters of immigrants, he recalled that Mr. Simpson defused the
passion by leaning over and whispering, ''Now, don't get too excited, Ted.''

Showing His Temper


It was considered all the more remarkable, therefore, that Mr. Simpson lost his
temper in a celebrated Senate debate. It was just before midnight, four days
before Christmas and a week after a scheduled adjournment. Senator Jesse A.
Helms, a North Carolina Republican, was filibustering against a proposed
increase in the gasoline tax.

''Seldom have I seen in my legislative experience of 17 years or more, a more
obdurate and obnoxious performance,'' said Mr. Simpson, who had spent 12 years
in the Wyoming Legislature and had served as its majority leader.

Tempers cooled the following morning, when Mr. Simpson and Mr. Helms made a show
of shaking hands in the chamber. Mr. Helms abandoned his filibuster shortly
thereafter.

''Simpson broke the logjam with Helms,'' recalled an aide to the Senate
Republican leadership. ''The incident sent a signal that Alan Simpson carried a
lot more weight on the Senate floor than some people gave him credit for.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Senator Simpson and Representative Mazzoli

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              173 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 23, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HISPANIC LEADER URGES A BOYCOTT OF CONVENTION'S FIRST VOTE

BYLINE: By JESUS RANGEL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 447 words

DATELINE: EL PASO, June 22


The president of the oldest and largest Hispanic rights group today urged
delegates to the Democratic National Convention to boycott the first-ballot vote
to protest a comprehensive immigration bill now before Congress and party rules
that he said discriminated against the Rev. Jesse Jackson.

The target of the move was Walter F. Mondale, the probable Presidential nominee,
who declined an invitation to appear before the group's 55th annual convention
here.

Standing beside Mr. Jackson, Mario Obledo, president of the League of United
Latin American Citizens, said Mr. Mondale was taking the Hispanic vote for
granted.

Mr. Obledo later predicted that members of the league would organize a boycott
against Mr. Mondale.

Mondale's Absence Noted


''His absence has raised the level of consciousness here,'' Mr. Obledo said.

The league said that Mr. Mondale had told them he was busy with other matters
when he declined their invitation. He has been interviewing prospective running
mates at his home in North Oaks. Minn.

Mr. Jackson has asserted that party rules discriminated against his candidacy
because under those rules he received a smaller proportion of convention
delegates than the percentage of popular votes he won as a candidate in
Presidential primaries.

Mr. Obledo and others here acknowledged that the request for a first-ballot
boycott was mostly symbolic because of the difficulty of persuading delegates
committed to Mr. Mondale to sit out the vote.

Ruben Bonilla, a past president of the league, said that while the attempt may
be futile, the league's delegates felt they had to send a message to the former
Vice President.

The effort underscored a high level of anger and frustration among the
approximately 2,000 delegates here because of Mr. Mondale's absence, which
delegates said they considered a snub. They were also protesting the passage of
the immigration bill Wednesday by the House of Representatives in a 216- to-211
vote.

A similar bill was passed by the Senate last year. A Senate-House conference is
scheduled to work out compromise legislation.

The bill passed by the House seeks to control illegal immigration by granting
amnesty to aliens who entered the country before 1982 and penalizing employers
who hire illegal aliens. The bill would also allow farmers to bring in foreign
workers for seasonal work.

Hispanic groups contend the proposed law would lead to discrimination against
Hispanic people and other minorities.

Mr. Bonilla called the passage of the bill ''the overriding political issue'' at
the convention. ''It was the Democrats who were responsible for the bill's
passage,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              174 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 9, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and Maurice Carroll

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 180 words


Faces at the Gateway


As an assistant clerk at Ellis Island

from 1892 to 1925, Augustus Sherman had ample opportunity to polish his skill as
an amateur photographer.

He photographed the immigrants - West Indians, Italian soldiers, Dutch children,
an 8-foot-tall Russian man who came to join the circus. He also photographed
those who were deported through Ellis Island, among them Emma Goldman, then
labeled an anarchist.

His photographs can be seen publicly for the first time in ''Visions of
Liberty,'' an exhibition that will continue through January at the New- York
Historical Society, at 170 Central Park West.

''This is an exhibition close to every American's heart,'' said Gail Ruckland,
the society's guest curator for photography, who spent six months collecting the
75 photographs.

The exhibition is the first in a long line of shows celebrating the Statue of
Liberty's centennial. It includes photographs of the statue's construction, its
official presentation in Paris on July 4, 1884, and its unveiling on Bedloes
Island on Oct. 28, 1886.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              175 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 8, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Conferees on Alien Bill Named

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 160 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 7


The Senate tonight appointed seven members to serve on a conference committee to
reconcile differences with the House on a comprehensive immigration bill.

The House was not in session today and has yet to appoint its conferees.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, said he hoped the conference
committee could meet once this week. On Friday or Saturday, the Senate plans to
begin a recess that will last through the Republican National Convention. It is
scheduled to reconvene Sept. 5.

The Senate conferees include four Republicans: Strom Thurmond of South Carolina,
Charles McC. Mathias Jr. of Maryland, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Mr.
Simpson. The Democrats are Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Howard M.
Metzenbaum of Ohio and Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont.

The bill would prohibit employment of illegal aliens, penalize employers who
hired such aliens and offer legal status to many illegal aliens already in the
United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              176 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 9, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

REAGAN RAISES NEW OBSTACLE TO HOUSE BILL ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section D; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 8


The Reagan Administration has raised a new objection to the House version of a
comprehensive immigration bill, saying it goes too far in protecting the rights
of legal aliens and Hispanic workers.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who is the chief sponsor of the
Senate bill, said Attorney General William French Smith had objected to a
provision of the House bill that would, for the first time, prohibit employers
from discriminating against legal aliens in hiring or recruiting workers.

Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat who proposed this section
of the bill, said it was ''a thoughtful and very practical scheme to protect
potential victims of discrimination.'' Hispanic groups contend that such
discrimination is likely to arise from another section of the bill that forbids
employers to hire illegal aliens and penalizes those who knowingly do so.

The Administration's objection creates a new obstacle for the immigration bill,
which is already in trouble because of opposition from Hispanic groups and many
Democrats, including Walter F. Mondale, the party's Presidential nominee.

A New Bureaucratic Entity

Administration officials contend that the House bill would create a costly,
unnecessary bureaucratic entity within the Justice Department to investigate
complaints of job discrimination.

In June the House approved Mr. Frank's proposal by an overwhelming margin, 404
to 9, with 150 Republicans supporting it. The House then passed the entire
immigration bill by a narrow margin, 216 to 211. The Senate passed a similar
bill but, by a vote of 59 to 29, rejected the sort of remedies for
discrimination approved by the House.

On Tuesday the Senate asked for a House-Senate conference to reconcile
differences between the two bills. The Senate appointed seven conferees, and the
Speaker of the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said he would try to appoint the
House conferees by Thursday.

William Bradford Reynolds, Assistant Attorney General for civil rights,
expressed ''serious reservations'' about the antidiscrimination provision,
saying it ''charts an unprecedented course in civil rights law.''

A Preference for Citizens


Mr. Reynolds said the existing statutes enforced by his office did not prohibit
''discrimination in hiring on the basis of alienage.'' Further, he said, ''It is
understandable that some private employers might prefer to provide employment
for United States citizens rather than for citizens of other countries who come
here to work.''

Lobbyists for business organizations, including the National Association of
Manufacturers and the Chamber of Commerce of the United States, expressed
similar concerns.

In 1980, the last year for which the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
complete data, there were 5.4 million legal aliens in the United States,
including 4.5 million permanent resident aliens. Permanent resident aliens have
most of the rights of citizens except the right to vote.

The House bill would create a new enforcement apparatus within the Justice
Department to investigate complaints of employment discrimination based on
either national origin or ''alienage.'' Employers who violated the ban on
discrimination would be subject to civil penalties of up to ''$4,000 for each
individual discriminated against.'' That is twice the maximum penalty that could
be imposed on employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens.

Powers of Immigration Board


An employer accused of discrimination would be entitled to a hearing before an
administrative law judge working for a new Justice Department agency known as
the United States Immigration Board. The board could award back pay to victims
of discrimination and could order employers to ''cease and desist'' from
discriminatory hiring practices.

Individual employees could file complaints directly with the board if the
agency's special counsel failed to do so after an investigation lasting 30 days.

Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 forbids employers to discriminate on
the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin. But it does not
cover employers with fewer than 15 employees. And the Supreme Court has held
that ''nothing in the act makes it illegal to discriminate on the basis of
citizenship or alienage.''

The House bill, with Mr. Frank's proposal, would cover employers with four or
more employees.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., a New Jersey Democrat who is chairman of the
House Judiciary Committee, assured his colleagues that he would fight to
preserve the safeguards against discrimination.

But aides to Senator Simpson said that on this issue he tended to agree with the
Administration and opposed the idea of creating a new legal remedy, or ''private
right of action,'' for employees charging discrimination.

However, the measure drew support from many conservatives, including
Representative Steve Bartlett, a Texas Republican, who said, ''What the Frank
amendment does is to state specifically and categorically that discrimination
will not be tolerated.''

In a speech to a Hispanic group last month, Vice President Bush said President
Reagan ''will not sign any legislation that would permit employers to
discriminate against Hispanics or anyone else.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              177 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 15, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CONFEREES AGREE ON BILL TO REVISE U.S. DISABILITY LAW

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 1105 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


House and Senate conferees reached agreement today on a bill to overhaul the
Social Security disability program, which has been in turmoil for more than a
year.

The agreement would liberalize eligibility standards and make it harder for the
Government to remove people from the rolls. Since 1981, the Government has
reviewed 1.2 million disability cases and informed 490,000 beneficiaries that
they would lose their benefits because they were no longer disabled. But more
than 200,000 of those beneficiaries were put back on the rolls after they
appealed.

The reviews were conducted under a 1980 mandate from Congress.



Emotional Political Issue

Representative J. J. Pickle, Democrat of Texas, who is chairman of the House
Ways and Means Subcommittee on Social Security, said in an interview today: ''We
have reached an agreement on the disability bill and we hope to have it
formalized by Monday. As a result of this agreement, the Social Security
Administration will again be able to run a workable program.''

The operation of the disability program has become a highly charged political
issue. Democrats asserted that the termination of benefits for thousands of
disabled workers showed that the Reagan Administration was unfair. Republican
members of Congress, deluged with complaints from constituents, joined Democrats
in criticizing the Social Security Administration. Governors and Federal judges
also put pressure on the Social Security Administration to change its policies.



48,000 Cases Pending

The United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Rudolph W.
Giuliani, has refused to defend the Government in two dozen cases where it was
trying to cut off disability benefits. He said the position of the Social
Security Administration in those cases was unreasonable and indefensible.

Other United States attorneys have expressed dismay at the rapidly growing
volume of Social Security cases. When a person is notified that he is no longer
eligible for benefits, he may pursue an appeal within the Social Security
Administration and, after exhausting this avenue, may file a lawsuit in Federal
court to regain benefits. The United States attorneys normally defends the
Government's position in court. Social Security officials said there were now
48,000 disability cases pending in Federal courts around the country.

A key element of the compromise reached by the conferees is an agreement that
the Federal Government could not remove a person from the disability rolls
unless it could show that his or her medical condition had improved.

Congressional aides said that the ''medical improvement'' standard was much
closer to the one in the House bill than in its Senate counterpart. Under
current law, the Government has cut off disability benefits for many people
without demonstrating that their condition has improved.

The House of Representatives approved its version of the disability legislation
by a vote of 410 to 1 on March 27. The Senate passed its bill unanimously, with
96 ayes, on May 22. Since then the two houses have had difficulty reconciling
the bills, in part because the Reagan Administration objected to changes that
would liberalize the eligibility criteria.

The conference agreement is still subject to approval by both houses of
Congress. But Congressional aides said that approval was virtually certain, in
view of the overwhelming margins by which the legislation was initially
approved. To become law, a single version of the bill must be approved by both
houses and signed by the President.

A Social Security official said the agency did not necessarily endorse every
detail of the conferees' agreement but would support the overall compromise.
Administration officials said they expected President Reagan to sign the bill if
it got to his desk, although the White House has not made any formal public
commitment to do so.

Benefit Cutoffs Suspended


Because of the uncertainty caused by differing standards imposed by Federal
courts throughout the country, Margaret M. Heckler, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, temporarily suspended efforts to cut off disability benefits
last April. The provisional resumption of benefits since then has been costing
the Government $10 million a month more than the program currently costs, Social
Security officials said. The program is expected to cost $18.5 billion in the
current fiscal year.  The agreement on the disability bill was worked out by
members of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee.
The key negotiators were Mr. Pickle and Senator Bob Dole, the Kansas Republican
who is chairman of the Finance Committee. The bill, known as the Social Security
Disability Amendments of 1984, is a freestanding piece of legislation that deals
specifically with the problems of the disability program.

The conferees dropped a provision of the House bill that would have required the
Social Security Administration to follow decisions issued by a United States
Court of Appeals in the circuit where they were issued. The agency sometimes
refuses to acquiesce in such rulings, on the ground that it may wish to reargue
issues of law on which it has suffered adverse decisions.

Congressional aides said the confereees would issue a statement disapproving
Social Security's practice of ''nonacquiescence'' in Federal court decisions.
The statement would not be part of the language of the new bill, but would be
expected to influence Social Security officials and Federal judges.

Standards for All Reviews

The statement says that the Social Security Administration should follow appeals
court rulings except in situations where it has taken, or has a ''reasonable
expectation and intention'' of taking, the steps necessary to appeal to the
Supreme Court.

The standards in the bill would apply to all disability reviews done in the
future and to many disability cases pending in Federal courts. Individual court
cases and people in certified class actions would be sent back to the Social
Security Administration for review under the new medical improvement standard,
Congresisonal aides said.The bill appears to allay the fears of Administration
officials who were worried that a nationwide class-action suit might be filed on
behalf of all the people who had been improperly removed from the disability
rolls.

The conference agreement provides that disability benefits and Medicare coverage
should be continued for people who are pursuing administrative appeals of a
decision to remove them from the disability rolls.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              178 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 20, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL IS AT AN IMPASSE

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 23, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 672 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept 19


House and Senate conferees who are drafting a comprehensive immigration bill
broke up this evening in disagreement over how to prevent job discrimination
against legal aliens and United States citizens of Hispanic origin.

After making progress in three days of negotiations on the bill, the conference
committee reached an impasse on the discrimination issue and adjourned this
evening until Thursday, when they will resume deliberations.

Led by Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, the House
negotiators remained steadfast in support of a provision in the House bill that
would, for the first time, prohibit employers from discriminating against legal
aliens in the hiring or recruitment of workers.

The chief negotiator on behalf of the Senate, Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, objected to the provision, saying it would break new ground for which
there was no precedent in civil rights law.

Issue of Seasonal Workers


Another major issue, seasonal workers, also remained unresolved when the
conferees adjourned.

Representative Leon E. Panetta, a California Democrat, said that in private
negotiations with sponsors of the legislation, he had not reached any agreement
on his proposal to establish a program to bring aliens into the United States to
do seasonal work harvesting perishable fruit and vegetables. The House approved
the proposal by 228 to 172 in June, but the Senate-passed bill contains no such
program.

The cooperative spirit evident in the first three days of negotiations has
encouraged supporters of the bill to believe it might be finally adopted before
the Congressional adjournment, tentatively scheduled for Oct. 4 or 5.

But Mr. Panetta said: ''There are a lot of land mines out there between this
conference and the end of the Congressional session. There are new land mines
being planted every day, even though the conferees are all working in good
faith.''

If the bill became law, it would make the most sweeping changes in immigration
law since 1952. The Senate bill, sponsored by Senator Simpson, was passed by a
vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983. The House bill, introduced by Representative
Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, was approved by 216 to 211 in June. The
purpose of the conference is to reconcile differences between the two versions.

Key Provision on Employers


The conferees deadlocked on a provision of the House bill that would, for the
first time, prohibit employers from discriminating against legal aliens in the
hiring or recruitment of workers. The bill would create a special office within
the Justice Department to investigate complaints that a person had suffered
discrimination because he was an alien or because of his national origin.

Hispanic groups and many Democrats have said there was an increased potential
for such discrimination because, under another section of the bill, employers
who hire illegal aliens would be subject to fines and prison terms.

Representative Barney Frank, the sponsor of the antidiscrimination proposal,
said, ''People who are in the United States legally ought to be able to compete
for jobs on equal terms,'' whether they are citizens or legal aliens.

''This,'' he said, ''was never a controversial issue until some big-business
groups got upset about it'' after the House approved his proposal. The House
adopted the proposal by a vote of 404 to 9, with 150 Republicans supporting it.
The Senate rejected a similar proposal.

Mr. Simpson objected to Mr. Frank's proposal. Under the proposal, he said, if an
employer chose to hire a citizen over a permanent resident alien, the employer
would be subject to a complaint of discrimination. ''I cannot sell that in
Wyoming,'' the Senator said. ''Indeed, I can't sell that anywhere.''

Mr. Mazzoli, while supporting the idea of a special counsel to investigate
complaints of job discrimination, said Mr. Frank's proposal went too far. He
said it would give legal aliens more rights than citizens had.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              179 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 28, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESSIONAL OPINIONS DIFFER ON CHANCES FOR BILL ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 806 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 27


The sponsors of a comprehensive immigration bill said today that they still
hoped to rescue the legislation, but some opponents said it was dead.

The Senate and the House of Representatives approved different versions of the
legislation. Lawmakers failed to resolve all their of differences in nine days
of negotiations, making final passage of the bill unlikely. The conferees did
manage to resolve most of the major differences in the two bills.

'There Is an Opportunity'

Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the chief Senate negotiator,
said in an interview: ''There is still honestly an opportunity. We all know what
we are looking for, but it is tough to get there. Time is short.''

Congress is tentatively scheduled to adjourn Oct. 4 or 5.

Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, said he and his staff
were still trying to break the deadlock over a provision of the House bill that
would prohibit discrimination against refugees, permanent-resident aliens and
illegal aliens who obtain legal status under the bill.

''We are less far apart, from a technical and philosophical standpoint, than you
would think from watching us,'' said Mr. Mazzoli, the sponsor of the
House-passed bill. ''Finding the right language may be less difficult than
selling it'' to members of the House-Senate conference, who need a face-saving
way to extricate themselves from the current impasse, Mr. Mazzoli said.

Senator Alan Cranston of California, the Democratic whip, who said two months
ago that the bill was dead, added today, ''It now looks like rigor mortis has
finally set in.'' He said that the House-Senate conference was ''doomed to
fail'' because the bill's basic provision, civil and criminal penalties for
employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens, was ''inherently inconsistent with
protecting the rights of either employers or workers.''

But Hispanic groups continued lobbying against the bill on Capitol Hill. ''I
never operate on the assumption that it's dead,'' said Arnoldo S. Torres,
executive director of the League of United Latin American Citizens. ''Anybody
who has really watched this bill could never operate on that assumption.''

Simpson Made an Offer


The Senate bill did not prohibit employement discrimination against aliens.
However, Senator Simpson offered an antidiscrimination proposal in the
conference. The House conferees rejected it. But aides to Representative
Hamilton Fish Jr., Republican of Upstate New York, said he might offer a motion
on the floor of the House next week to instruct the House conferees to accept
the Simpson offer.

Senator Simpson's proposal would have strengthened existing laws that prohibit
job discrimination on the basis national origin.

The impasse involves profound issues: The difference between citizens and
aliens, and the question of whether aliens should enjoy the full protection of
the nation's laws, and how best to prevent job discrimination against United
States citizens of Hispanic origin.

Mr. Simpson and Mr. Mazzoli have always said that their bill was not nativist,
racist or mean. But some immigration specialists detected a tinge of nativism in
the final days of debate, when several conferees said that employers should be
able to hire American citizens in preference to aliens.

Charles D. Smith, associate editor of Interpreter Releases, a weekly publication
on immigration law, said that some of the comments appeared to fit the
dictionary definition of nativism: prejudice in favor of natives against
strangers; the practice or policy of protecting the interests of the native
residents against those of immigrants.

At one point in the conference, he recalled, Mr. Mazzoli said that people were
being encouraged to ''buy American'' and to ''build American'' and should be
able to ''hire American'' without being accused of employment discrimination.

'It's at Least Understandable'


Mr. Simpson, at another point in the conference, said, ''It's proper, or at
least understandable, that an employer may prefer to give a job to an American
citizen rather than to a citizen of another country who is here with work
authority.''

Senator Simpson said today that he ''did not sense any nativist or racist tone''
in any of the negotiations, and Mr. Mazzoli agreed. Both said that aliens should
be able to work in this country, free from discrimination.

Dale Frederick Swartz, president of the National Immigration, Refugee and
Citizenship Forum, a private group that closely followed the Simpson-Mazzoli
bill, said the legislation still had a 10 percent chance of being adopted.

''The bill,'' he said, ''is dead unless Simpson and the Republicans are willing
to accept substantial protections against discrimination for all persons
lawfully in this country.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              180 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CENSUS BUREAU REPORTS RISE IN FOREIGN-BORN

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 2; Page 60, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 449 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 20


A flood of Asian and Latin American immigrants has sharply increased the number
of foreign-born residents of the United States, a new Census Bureau study shows.

The bureau counted just over 14 million foreign-born residents in the 1980
census. According to the 1970 census, there were 9.6 million foreign-born
residents of the United States.

Of the recent arrivals, 1.3 million came from Latin America and 1.2 million from
Asia. More than half the newcomers from Latin America arrived from Mexico.

The bureau found 2,199,221 residents of the United States who were born in
Mexico, of whom one-third came to this country from 1975 to 1980.

A distant second on the list of homelands was Germany; 849,384 United States
residents said they were born there. However, most of them have been have been
in this country 20 years or more; only 6 percent arrived since 1975.

Other nations heavily represented in the foreign-born population of the United
States include Canada, which sent 842,859 immigrants; Italy, which sent 831,922;
and Cuba, which sent 607,814.

Most United States residents born in Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia arrived in this
country from 1975 to 1980: 97 percent of the 54,881 Laotians, 90.5 percent of
the 231,120 Vietnam-born, and 90.9 percent of the 20,175 Cambodians arrived in
this country in that five-year period.  Education and Earnings

The Census Bureau study found that foreign-born residents earned slightly less
than persons born in this country; that fewer foreign-born residents had
finished high school than native-born Americans, although about as many finished
college; and that about as many foreign-born as native Americans had
professional jobs.

On the average, about 16 percent of both the foreign-born and native-born are
college graduates, the bureau said.

However, immigrants from certain countries were far ahead of native- born
Americans in educational attainment: 66 percent of residents born in India had
college degrees, along with 60 percent of the Taiwanese and 49 percent of
Nigerian immigrants.

About 68 percent of native-born Americans are high school graduates as against
53 percent of immigrants. But again figures varied widely, from 97 percent of
arriving Nigerians to only 21 percent of Mexicans.

Median household income for the foreign-born was $14,588, against $17,010 for
the United States-born.

Arrivals from India averaged $25,644. But Nigerians, who also had a large number
with high school and college diplomas, averaged only $6,927.

Immigrants from Africa averaged 137 males for every 100 females, in contrast to
78 males per 100 females from both Europe and Asia. Latin America sends 98 males
per 100 females.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              181 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 1, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NEW CITIZENS: A SENSE OF BELONGING SPICED WITH OPPORTUNITY

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1479 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Nov. 30


They met no gracious Lady Liberty at America's Pacific shore, no grim Ellis
Island as a gateway to a brighter world. But by air and over land, from the
nations of the globe, 2,000 immigrants who had come to California today claimed
a place as new American citizens.

They are part of a rush of legal immigrants preparing for citizenship that has
led the Immigration and Naturalization Service to increase the number of
naturalization ceremonies to an almost monthly schedule in Los Angeles, and to
expand similar ceremonies around the country.

A half-dozen selected at random from the group sworn in today were interviewed
over the last few days about their lives and their hopes in their new identities
as man, woman, American.

No More Green Cards

They were among 2,000 people who assembled in the halls of the Los Angeles Music
Center, the place where Hollywood bestows its Academy Awards. With the surrender
of their green cards, which have been both the medal and the brand of their
identities as permanent resident aliens, they swore an oath administered by a
Federal judge that made them citizens of the United States.

In the years they have already been in the United States, including the five
years they had to wait to apply for naturalization and the two to three years
many said they waited for approval, they have established themselves throughout
the sprawling Los Angeles region.

The Chengs

Fifty years ago, other newcomers from the Middle Western plains and delta fields
and industrial enclaves of the United States came to California and organized
state clubs, teams and picnics that preserved their link to the old life and
celebrated their welcome of the new.

In exactly the same fashion, Yea Min Cheng takes his wife and two sons from
their suburban home in Cerritos, at the Orange County line, to cheer basketball
games between teams of fellow immigrants from their native Taiwan.

Seven thousand people attended one recent annual game at the Los Angeles Sports
Arena, the Chengs said.

Mr. Cheng is a 36-year-old electrical engineer whose parents left Shanghai for
Taiwan after the Chinese communist revolution. He works for the Tatung Company
of America, an division of a large manufacturing company he called ''the General
Motors of Taiwan.'' Jenny Cheng, his wife, works for the Minnesota Mining and
Manufacturing Company and, like her husband, goes to school at night at one of
California's low-cost public colleges.

Both came from comfortable backgrounds and faced bright futures before they left
Taiwan. But the chance for a more advanced technological education in America,
combined with the competitive pressures of their highly populated homeland,
brought them to California in 1976, they said.

They represent the growing proportion of Asians among immigrants to the United
States. Throughout this century, the percentage of immigrants from Latin America
and Canda has also increased while the proportion of immigrants from Europe has
decreased.

'More Opportunity Here'

''We feel if you work hard and study hard, you usually can get what you want,''
Mrs. Cheng said. ''Because there is more opportunity here.''

Already they have become like the majority of American couples, with the wife
working to contribute to the family's income that pays for their ranch- style
house on a quiet, sunny street. In Taiwan, despite her own desires, Mrs. Cheng
said, that would not have been so. A woman in Taiwan who did not hold a serious
job before marriage has little chance of getting one afterward, ''and I have my
own dreams,'' she said. Her husband added, ''She is also ambitious.''

Mr. Cheng decided to immigrate after a business trip to California. Because Mrs.
Cheng had a sister who immigrated earlier, they easily quickly gained entry
under immigration rules giving preference to the relatives of people already
here.

They speak fluent English, having studied it since junior high school as is
mandatory in westernized Taiwan, an important American trading partner. Their
sons, Johnny and Tommy, attend a local elementary school and Chinese school on
Saturdays in the hope, the Chengs said, they will retain certain Chinese
traditions, particularly respect for parental authority, as they grow up as
Americans.

''We hope to combine the best of both cultures,'' Mr. Cheng said. ''That is our
dream.''

Rima Butros

Rima Butros, a Palestinian, immigrated to Los Angeles with her family as a
teen-ager from Lebanon in 1976. They were refugees from warfare in the Middle
East where the family's apartment and Miss Butros's high school had been
shelled. Now she works in a bank in a downtown Los Angeles skyscraper.

''You want to live in a stable country,'' she said. ''Here, you have your rights
and you can do whatever you want. In the Middle East, you never know what's
going to happen the next day.''

She speaks English with barely a trace of an accent. The 26-year-old immigrant,
who now lives in Pasadena, expects to receive a degree by attending college at
night while working in the bank's international division.

Her parents left Palestine in 1948 when Israel was created and moved throughout
the Middle East. War broke out after they settled in Beirut.

''You couldn't go out on the street,'' she said. ''You never knew if a rocket
was going to hit your house. Our house was hit. We didn't have electricity for
five days, water for two days, we didn't have food.''

The swearing-in ceremony relieved her of the burden of bureaucratic questions
about her status as a resident alien, she said. ''You finally belong someplace.
You're an American citizen.''


Jose Eduardo Estrada

Jose Eduardo Estrada also sees citizenship as the bridge to what he is certain
will be a solid economic future for himself in the United States.

''In the field I want to go into, electronics,'' the Guatemalan native said, ''a
lot of companies have government contracts. You have to be a U.S. citizen to
work for them. I don't want anything to hold me back.''

Apparently, nothing else is. A self- proclaimed ''California boy,'' Mr. Estrada,
27 years old, displays the confidence and bearing of an Olympic athlete, even if
he is wearing a Hawaiian shirt and tennis shoes for his job as a waiter at a
popular Marina del Rey restaurant.

Mr. Estrada, who has lived in California since he was 2 years old, is studying
electronic communications at a technical institute where a brother is also a
student. Their mother was born in Mexico and their father in Guatemala, but both
parents had become permanent American residents at the time of a trip to see
relatives in Guatemala, when Jose was born.

Now his father is an American citizen and his mother has begun studying for her
own naturalization. ''She wants a better-paying job,'' Mr. Estrada said. ''They
just bought a new house, and she wants to be more secure.''


Verjouhi Dermijian

Verjouhi Dermijian and her family have become part of the fast-growing Armenian
community in California, a community that gave the state its first
Armenian-American governor, George Deukmejian.

Her husband, George, immigrated to this country 15 years ago. For a wife, he
turned to the ethnic Armenian community in Syria. When she was 16, Three weeks
after she and her family met Mr. Dermijian, the couple was married in Aleppo,
Mrs. Dermijian said.

The Dermijians immigrated through New York and lived for almost five years in
Flushing, Queens. But the cold weather drove them to California, where they live
in the San Fernando Valley near his job as a car body repairman.

The oldest two of their three children attend a private Armenian school. Mrs.
Dermijian takes care of the family home. American citizenship was a logical next
step, which to her needs no explaining.

''I have everything,'' she says simply. ''I have my kids, I have my house. Our
life is good.''

Kumiko Wood

Kumiko Wood, the bride 24 years ago in Japan of an American marine sergeant,
says she considers herself an American now and that Japan is ''just to see, just
to visit.''

At 49 years old, she devotes her life to her family, including three sons, and
has moved completely, and with apparent ease, into her husband's American
lifestyle in the Orange County city of Santa Ana. She has few ties with other
Japanese here. ''I didn't feel the need to see other Japanese people,'' she
said.

Instead, she has gained the status of a kind of Mom-of-the-Year, and not only in
her own household. After dozens of trips to the local high school playing fields
to follow the athletic careers of her sons, she said she became expert in
football and baseball. One year the three boys were playing on three different
teams and she attended every game, at home and away. She was given an award by
Saddleback High School in Santa Ana, for being the first mother to accomplish
such a feat.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of new citizens

TYPE: INTERVIEW

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              182 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 14, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S.-Cuba Talks Resume

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 64 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13


The United States and Cuba resumed immigration talks today, seeking to reach
final agreement on the return of about 2,500 ''undesirable'' Cuban refugees who
came to this country in the 1980 boatlift. In return, Cuba is seeking a
restoration of normal immigration flows to the United States. The talks resumed
at a location in New York that was kept secret for security reasons.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              183 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

LEADER IN MOVEMENT THAT SHELTERS ALIENS WINS A COURT ROUND

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 286 words

DATELINE: CORPUS CHRISTI, Tex., Jan. 17


A Federal district judge said today that freedom of religion was a legitimate
defense in the case of a leading figure in a movement to afford sanctuary in the
United States to refugees from Latin America.

Judge Hayden Head Jr. was speaking of Jack Elder, director of Casa Oscar Romero,
a refugee project of the Brownsville Roman Catholic Diocese, who is charged in
Federal court with transporting three Salvadorans from Casa Romero to a bus
station. Judge Head agreed with an assertion by the defense in pretrial hearings
that Mr. Elder's aid to immigrants had been ''motivated by religious beliefs.''

The judge told United States Attorney Robert Berg the Federal Government now had
to show that the need to enforce immigration law in the public interest
outweighed Mr. Elder's rights to free exercise of religion.

The movement is a grouping of more than 160 churches across the country that
pledge haven to Salvadorans and Guatemalans who have encountered violence and
persecution in their homeland.

Mr. Elder could receive a possible sentence of up to 16 years if convicted.

Leaders of the movement say they are practicing their faith in harboring and
transporting Central American immigrants. The Government argues that Mr. Elder's
case is a routine case and his religious beliefs are not related to the specific
charges.

But the witnesses who backed the motion, especially Bishop John Joseph
Fitzpatrick, the Roman Catholic bishop of Brownsville, and the Catholic
philosopher Hugh Lacey of Swarthmore Universiity, persuaded Judge Head to agree
that freedom of religion was a legitimate defense.

A ruling on the defense motion to dismiss the case on religious grounds is
expected tomorrow.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              184 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 18, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CONFERENCE TAKES LOOK AT LOS ANGELES'S FUTURE

BYLINE: By ROBERT LINDSEY

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 943 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Feb. 16


Leaders here took stock of their city's future this week and concluded that it
was largely being shaped by powerful forces beyond its borders.

One is the economic awakening of the Far East, which is transforming Los Angeles
into a thriving financial center. The other is dreary poverty in parts of Latin
America and of Asia, which is propelling millions of immigrants here and causing
the most rapid demographic change in a major American city in the nation's
history.

At a conference on its future, Los Angeles was praised as a place that had
created a gleaming new downtown after its central city had all but been declared
dead; as a place with a rich, diverse and growing cultural life; and as a place
tolerant of new ideas and new technologies, different cultures and different
ways of life.

At the same time, delegates to the conference, which was held by the Los Angeles
Central City Association and drew more than 300 civic and business leaders, were
told the city needed to solve many serious problems, including inadequate public
transportation, housing costs that were 50 percent higher than the national
average, growing tension between ethnic groups and the quickening obsolesence of
some of its oldest manufacturing plants.

Economic Center Shifting


''The economic center of the world is moving toward the Pacific,'' said Robert
O. Anderson, the chairman of Atlantic Richfield Company. As China and other
Asian countries flex their economic muscles, he said, Los Angeles, perched on
the edge of the Pacific, will become ''a much larger and much greater city, and
it could become the dominant city in the free world.''

Other speakers said growing trade with Pacific nations had been a major stimulus
for the re-emergence in the past 15 years of the city's central business
district.

But John Friedman, head of the urban planning program at the University of
California here, warned of what he called ''the Detroiting of Los Angeles.''

''When you look at those gleaming towers,'' he said, ''they seem to have no age
at all; yet, we are no longer the brash young city of the West but an aging
metropolis.''

Beyond the bright new downtown center, Dr. Friedman said, is a vast blue-collar
city, with much of its industrial plant and housing stock built immediately
after World War II and deteriorating at a rapid pace.

Thousands of jobs had been lost through plant closings, he added. ''In 1949,''
he said, ''there were nine automobile factories making 650,000 cars a year and
14 tire plants; the city was second only to Detroit and Akron; now the last
automobile plant is struggling to survive.''

Reviving Housing


He said Los Angeles also faced ''a problem of massive proportions'' in finding
ways to redevelop its sprawling suburbs and adapt aging California bungalows,
designed for the 1960's, to an era when the typical household no longer consists
of a husband, wife and two children.

These problems notwithstanding, Robert T. Parry, chief economist for the
Security Pacific National Bank, said Los Angeles's economic future was
potentially very favorable, largely because of its proximity to growing markets
in Asia, its leadership in advanced technology and the diversification of its
employment base.

But he said these advantages could be muted by the region's inflated housing
market, future water shortages, and a failure to provide effective public
transportation. ''Los Angeles is unlikely to have a transportation alternative
by the turn of the century,'' Dr. Parry said.

Kevin F. McCarthy, a Rand Corporation demographer said, ''Los Angeles's days of
rapid population growth are over.'' He predicted growth would exceed the
national average, but not greatly, he predicted.

More signficant, Dr. McCarthy said, will be changes in its population that
''will transform the city into the continental United States' first multi-
ethnic, multiracial metropolis.''

Growth in Immigration


Until the 1960's, he said, California experienced explosive population growth as
a result of migration from other states. Now, he said, foreign immigration,
predominantly from Mexico and Asia, ''is the major reason Los Angeles is still
growing.''

In the 1970's, the population grew by 150,000, to almost three million, but if
it hadn't been for foreign immigration, ''it would have lost 250,000,'' Dr.
McCarthy said. Within a decade, he added, residents of Hispanic and Asian
descent may account for more than half of the population here.

Francine Rabinovitz, a University of Southern California social scientist,
warned that such rapid change in the city's ethnic composition, greater even
than that of New York City at the turn of the century, would pose difficult
challenges.

She cited findings of a new study of the immigrants, called ''The Fourth Wave,''
made by the Urban Institute, a Washington-based private research group, that
concluded that the majority of the immigrants here are from rural Mexico,
maintain close ties with Mexico and are slow to assimilate.

From 1970 to 1983, she said, it is estimated that more than one million Mexican
immigrants came to the Los Angeles area, two-thirds of them as illegal
aliens.The Asian population is also growing, Dr. Rabinovitz said, but not as
rapidly, and it is adapting much differently.

While Hispanic immigrants often seek out blue-collar work, Asians tend to choose
service and retailing work. ''Asians are registering for college at twice the
rate of whites and three times that of the Hispanic population,'' Dr, Rabinovitz
said.

Still unknown, she said, is how the new ethnic balance will affect politics
here.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              185 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 20, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

WORKPLACE DEATH PROMPTS A DISPUTE

BYLINE: By E. R. SHIPP

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 739 words

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 19


A year ago this month, a 45-year-old Polish immigrant died of cyanide poisoning
at a job he had briefly held at a factory that the Cook County prosecutor has
described as ''a huge gas chamber.''

In what lawyers say was an extremely unusual move, a murder indictment was
handed down against five executives of the company, Film Recovery Systems.

In the latest twist in the case, the Governor of Utah has refused to extradite
one of the executives, Michael T. MacK ay, leading to a sharp exchange with his
Illinois counterpart.

The specific charge is that Mr. MacKay and the other defendants killed Stefan
Golab, the Polish immigrant, by engaging in practices that ''created a strong
probability of death and great bodily harm.'' This included failing to take
safety measures or to store and dispose of the cyanide properly.

Exploitation Is Charged


The Cook County prosecutor, Richard M. Daley, said the company hired people who
did not speak English and then did not warn them of the dangers of the cyanide
they were handling.

''Film Recovery Systems primarily recruited undocumented workers, relying on the
fact that they could not understand English and also were afraid that their
illegal status would be exposed,'' Mr. Daley said. ''Because of these
circumstances, the firm and its officers believed that the employees would not
complain about the lethal working conditions.''

Film Recovery, which has since closed its plant in the Chicago suburb of Elk
Grove Village, is also the subject of a civil lawsuit brought by Neil Hartigan,
the Illinois Attorney General, to recover the cost of disposing of 16 million
pounds of cyanide-coated chips improperly dumped at sites across the state. The
company used the cyanide to recover silver from spent X-ray film.

Dispute Over Extradition


The extradition fight between Illinois and Utah centers on Mr. MacK ay, a
director of Film Recovery. His company, B. R. MacK ay & Sons, a silver smelting
concern, owned half of Film Recovery.

On Feb. 6, Gov. Scott M. Matheson of Utah said he would not extradite Mr.
MacKay, a Salt Lake City businessman he described as an exemplary citizen. In
denying the request of Illinois officials, Governor Matheson cited the ''unique
and sensational'' nature of the charges and the publicity they had engendered.

''I don't know when I've seen such sensationalism in the news media,'' Mr.
Matheson said. ''Because of this, I am very concerned about his chances for a
fair trial in Illinois.''

A Verbal Exchange


That led Gov. James R. Thompson of Illinois to retort: ''The pretrial publicity,
while novel for Utah, was not novel for the state of Illinois. Maybe Utah's
sensibilities are more easily shocked.''

Mr. Daley, son of the former Mayor, accused Governor Matheson of ''abusing his
responsibility to justice and law enforcement.''

That brought a response from one of Mr. MacK ay's attorneys, David K. Watkiss,
who said, ''What the hell does Mr. Daley know about law and order?''

One thing officials in both states agree on is that the case is unusual. Several
lawyers said they could not recall another instance of a corporate executive
being charged with murder in a case stemming from the death of an employee in
the workplace.

In addition to Mr. MacKay, those charged with first-degree murder are Steven J.
O'Neil, who was president of Film Recovery; Gerald Pett, vice president of the
company; Charles Kirschbaum, the plant manager, and Daniel Rodriguez, the
assistant plant manager.

'Unique Set of Facts'


Mr. O'Neil is living in Montana, and he has indicated he would not fight
extradition. The three others pleaded not guilty and were released on bond.

''This is not a Ford Pinto case or an industrial accident case,'' said Dave
Devane, a spokesman for the prosecutor. ''It's an extremely unique set of facts.
We are not continuing these prosecutions with an eye toward creating a realm of
industrial safety law; we are looking at a situation that is highly unique.''

Most extradition requests are routinely granted, but when they are not there is
apparently little that can be done. Mr. Devane said the prosecutors would
resubmit their request, but had little hope of persuading Governor Matheson to
change his mind.

''We are also researching the law to see what is available to us, either in the
Utah courts or in the Federal courts,'' he said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              186 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 23, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NICARAGUAN JEW SEEKS U.S. RELIGIOUS ASYLUM

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 102 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 22


A 22-year-old Nicaraguan Jew has made a 'highly unusual' request for religious
asylum in the United States, asserting that life in his homeland is 'impossible'
for Jewish people, immigration officials said Monday.

Most refugees in the United States ask for political asylum, said George
Waldroup, a spokesman for the United States Immigration and Naturalization
Service.

'I'm not here trying to turn the U.S. people against Nicaragua,' the refugee
told The Miami News. 'But things are getting bad there. The people are afraid,
and they're hungry. And for a Jew living there it is just impossible.'


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: map of Nicaragua

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              187 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 26, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

HEADLINERS

SECTION: Section 4; Page 7, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 131 words


Mario Moreno Lopez left home without a certain green card recently, and it cost
him a lot more than the inconvenience of not being able to charge a meal. Mario,
who is 14 years old, was picked up by immigration officials on a sweep of
illegal immigrants in Santa Ana, Calif., where he resided legally with his
father. He said he told the Federal agents that he had left his ''green card''
at home, but said he confessed to being an illegal immigrant when he saw the
agents physically abuse another detainee. He was subsequently deported to
Tijuana, Mexico, where his father searched for him for several days. They were
reunited last week after Mario sneaked back into the United States. Mr. Lopez
said he was considering a lawsuit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mario Moreno Lopez

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              188 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 6, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

Anti-Asian Bias Study Due

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 78 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 5


The Federal Commission on Civil Rights decided today to seek to determine if
sentiment against Asian Americans, especially new immigrants, has increased in
recent years. John H. Bunzel, the commission member who called for the study,
said witnesses at local hearings had said some incidents were a result of
decisions by American companies to shift work to Asia. The commission's staff
was told to determine by May whether formal hearings would be necessary.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              189 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 11, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NOTED WITH PLEASURE

SECTION: Section 7; Page 35, Column 1; Book Review Desk

LENGTH: 946 words


Some passages from current and recently published books that we find
particularly appealing.

At Castle Garden


What it was like to arrive in America as a poor immigrant in the 1860's - a
passage from J. F. Federspiel's novel ''The Ballad of Typhoid Mary'' (Dutton).


Among the first sights to welcome the immigrants was the inside of a fortress,
rebuilt to serve as an opera house, though it had served for dogfights as well.
Hard-bitten wrestlers and boxers with bare fists had given performances there,
along with fire-eaters and screeching singers who had been chased off the stage
in Vienna or Berlin. Castle Garden - the new name given Castle Clinton - had
been an opera house for a short time. . . . Its doors were sealed, and in 1855
the New York Immigration Authority decided to rebuild the place as a processing
center for immigrants. Needless to say, there was little reconstruction. The
trashy decor was stripped off, the chandeliers were auctioned, and with all the
hammering, the stucco fell from the ceiling. The once luxurious lounges were
turned into showers. No immigrant was permitted to set foot on the clean new
land without taking a shower, and his clothes had to be disinfected in a steam
oven before he was allowed to put them back on. Only then did the painful
questions begin.

Wherefrom? Whereto? Howcome? Howmuch?  Journeys Never Made


The late Richard Rovere looks back, half ruefully, on his literary career in
''Final Reports'' (Doubleday), his ''personal reflections on politics and
history in our time.''

My past is strewn with abandoned projects and plans for journeys never made. The
books I have started and put aside far outnumber those I have completed. This is
true of many writers, perhaps of most. Visions that take radiant shape in the
darkness have a way of fading in daylight. It is almost in the nature of
enthusiasms that they become wasting assets. But I think that this has happened
with me more often than with most. For one thing, working journalists regularly
chase wild geese. Like firemen, they answer alarms, many of them false; not
their own passions but those of others determine much of what they do. Self-pity
is an occupational disease, sometimes disabling, and I have spent God knows how
many hours asking myself if I was really put on this earth to write about the
likes of Richard Nixon and Joe McCarthy, to spend years chronicling the madness
of our war in Vietnam. To feel thus ill-used is, of course, unworthy, but though
eight books bear my name I cannot deny that I have wasted much time thinking
about how much time I was wasting, and I have explored many a mare's nest in
search of a solid structure. I have consoled myself with the thought that some
runners, I among them, are sprinters, and that some run the marathon, and that
both are valued in their own contests. And with the saying - I think it comes
from the Reverend Sydney Smith - ''Give me a short book on an inescapable
subject.'' Center and Circumference


Margaret Atwood discusses Canada and Canadian-American relations in her new
collection of essays, ''Second Words'' (Beacon Press).

Finally, in the very last year of high school, by which time many future
citizens had dropped out anyway, we got a blue book called ''Canada in the World
Today.'' It was about who grew the wheat, how happy the French were, how well
the parliamentary system worked for everybody and how nice it was that the
Indians had given us all their land in exchange for the amenities of
civilization. The country we lived in was presented to us in our schools as
colorless, dull and without much historical conflict to speak of, except for a
few massacres, and nobody did that any more. Even the British war of conquest
was a dud, since both of the generals died. It was like a hockey game in which
both teams lost. . . .

I remember ''Canada in the World Today'' with modified loathing - ''Canada comes
of age,'' it trumpeted, not bothering that what happened to you when you came of
age was that you got pimples or a job or both - and still not a year passes
without some politician announcing that Canada has finally grown up. Still, the
title is significant. Canada sees itself as part of the world; a small sinking
Titanic squashed between two icebergs, perhaps, but still inevitably a part. The
States, on the other hand, has always had a little trouble with games like
chess. Situational strategy is difficult if all you can see is your own borders,
and beyond that some wispy brownish fuzz that is barely worth considering. The
Canadian experience was a circumference with no center, the American one a
center which was mistaken for the real thing.  Against Self-Sufficiency


One of Wendell Berry's notes on ''Unspecializing Poetry'' in his collection of
essays ''Standing by Words'' (North Point Press).

The notion that a poem is autonomous seems to appropriate the divine character
of self-sufficiency - which theology and biology deny to creatures - to apply it
to the creature of a creature.  On the Subject of Satyrs


''The Clown's Report on Satyrs,'' from ''Maximum Security Ward amd Other Poems''
(Persea Books), a substantial new selection from the work of the late Ramon
Guthrie, edited by Sally M. Gall. On the hoof or dead, a satyr weighs about the
single same. They mingle with goddesses and singe themselves in flame that they
ignite with steady gaze while they recite the name of One who in the olden days
slept on Naxos' shingle, and they are golden ruddy in the sun and hold
themselves aloof. A satyr on the hoof is fleet. Slaughtered, their dark red meat
is strong.B

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawings

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              190 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 14, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

UWE JOHNSON, NOVELIST, DIES; WROTE ABOUT EAST GERMANY

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL

SECTION: Section B; Page 10, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 550 words


Uwe Johnson, a leading immigrant East German novelist who lived for a time in
the United States, has died in England, the Berlin Academy of Art reported
yesterday. He was 49 years old. The cause of death was not announced.

Mr. Johnson wrote only one big best seller in West Germany, to which he
immigrated in July 1959, but most of his novels scrutinizing the destinies of
East and West Germany had a major impact there. In the early 1970's, the author
won one of West Germany's highest literary awards, the Georg B"uchner prize, and
in 1965, he won the $10,000 International Publishers' Prize, which had
previously gone to Jorge Luis Borges and Samuel Beckett.

Born in Pomerania in 1934, Mr. Johnson grew up in Mecklenburg. He studied German
language and literature at the University of Rostock, and studied two years at
the University of Leipzig. In 1953 he wrote a novel that the East German state
publishing house rejected. He took the novel with him aboard a north-south train
and got off as it passed through West Berlin. The book was subsequently
published by Suhrkamp, a Frankfurt publisher.

Wrote About Berlin Wall

Mr. Johnson later published a novel about the Berlin wall, ''Two Views,'' based
on interviews with East Germans who escaped. His wife, whom he married in 1962,
also escaped from East Germany after the wall was erected. Some years ago, while
living in England, Mr. Johnson joined Hannah Arendt, W. H. Auden, G"unter Grass,
Graham Greene and 26 other writers in a letter in The Times of London, appealing
to the Soviet Union to stop persecuting Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.

Mr. Johnson visited the United States several times in the early 1960's, once
for a reading tour with Mr. Grass, the novelist. In 1966, through the help of
Helen Wolff, his publisher, Mr. Johnson was employed as an editor in the school
department of Harcourt Brace & World (now Harcourt Brace Jovanovich). ''I pay
taxes to everybody, have a Social Security card and am in position to imagine
the working day of an American,'' he said in an interview at that time. He
remained for two years.

But Mr. Grass said that that Mr. Johnson never felt at home in the United States
or England, and was always homesick for the East. ''He remained a stranger in
the West and he attached importance to this,'' Mr. Grass said.

'A New Creative Voice'

''Speculations about Jakob,'' published in the United States by Grove Press in
1963, earned Mr. Johnson the reputation as ''a new creative voice'' from
Germany. ''Two Views,'' a novel about a young West German photographer and East
Berlin nurse, and ''The Third Book About Achim,'' about a champion East German
bicyclist, both of them published by Harcourt, Brace & World, were also widely
and favorably reviewed.

''Anniversaries,'' a novel published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1975,
juxtaposed New York in 1967 with life in pseudonymous Jerichow, a small town in
northern Germany, during the Nazi era. ''Johnson's prose defies translation,''
the novelist Ernst Pawel wrote in The New York Times Book Review. But, Mr. Pawel
added, ''Reading Uwe Johnson in English is better than not reading him at all,
because even in this less than perfect version he comes through as an uncommonly
original and provocative voice.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OBITUARY

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              191 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 21, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AMERICAN JEWISH GROUPS FAULTED ON A REPORT ON HOLOCAUST VICTIMS

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 2070 words


After two and a half years of studying a question that has weighed on the minds
of American Jews for four decades, a group of prominent American Jews has
concluded that the country's major Jewish organizations did not do all that they
could have to save victims of the Holocaust.

''As much as it hurts me to have to say it, we didn't do enough,'' the group's
chairman, former Supreme Court Justice Arthur J. Goldberg, said in an interview.
''Nobody did enough.''

Much of the final report of the American Jewish Commission on the Holocaust, an
unofficial group of 34 Jewish Americans, is given over to reasons why Jewish
leaders did not act more effectively, although they knew by the fall of 1942
that the Nazis were bent on a policy of mass extermination.

Last year, 15 months after it was created, the commission broke up temporarily
in a clash over the harsh assessment of former Jewish leaders in a preliminary
report. The dispute is sure to continue with the publication of the final
report, which is to be released early next month.

The commission continued its work after the two severest critics of the Jewish
organizations had quit. The final report, approved by the commission, was
written by Prof. Seymour M. Finger of the Graduate School of the City University
of New York.

A fundamental reason for the overall failure of the Jewish organizations, in the
commission's view, was that they were disunited, financially limited and lacking
in political influence. Moreover, according to the report, many of their leaders
were afraid of stirring up anti-Semitism in the United States and impeding the
Allied war effort.

''During the Depression, with massive unemployment,'' the report said, ''some
American Jews shared the general concern that massive immigration might worsen
the situation. Also, given the general American mind-set against immigration at
that time, coupled with virulent anti-Semitism, many Jewish leaders feared that
too active a campaign to liberalize immigration restrictions in order to save
Jews might boomerang; restrictions might have been made tighter.''

Mr. Goldberg said that the failure to act forcefully hurt most in the years
between Hitler's ascent to power in 1933 and America's entry into the war in
1941, when, he believes, it would have been still possible to save hundreds of
thousands of lives.

The commission conducted no hearings, relying instead on research by academics
and journalists. It focused on the American Jewish Committee and, linked to it,
the Joint Distribution Committee, a major wartime relief agency; the
predominantly Zionist American Jewish Congress, affiliated with the World Jewish
Congress; B'nai B'rith and its affiliate, the Anti-Defamation League; the Jewish
Labor Committee, which represented several hundred Jewish labor groups in the
United States, and organizations of the Orthodox community.

Individuals associated with most of the groups served on the commission -
although not officially as representatives of their organizations. The other
groups were sent drafts of the portion of the report that referred to their
activities, and all were given copies of an interim report. Professor Finger
said the only objections he had received were on behalf of B'nai B'rith, and
changes were made as a result.

Credit is given to all the groups for their efforts under difficult
circumstances, but most are criticized for their diffidence in a time of crisis.

In an appraisal of what it calls ''discreet 'backstairs' diplomacy'' by the
''upper class'' American Jewish Committee, the report noted, ''With each
worsening event, the committee reacted by contacting yet another official or
revisiting the same ones to call their attention to the new situation.''

'Behind-the-Scenes Prodding'


''They were still trying to persuade the same officials when the war ended,''
said the report.

According to the commission, B'nai B'rith did not face up until well into the
war years to the fact ''that conventional, quiet, behind-the-scenes prodding of
sympathetic Government officials was in essence leading nowhere.''

Although the American Jewish Congress was more inclined to call for ''highly
visible, militant actions - boycotts, street demonstrations, rallies,'' the
report notes that in 1940, its leader, Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, ''refused to
sanction any tactics that would embarrass the pro-British administration of
Franklin D. Roosevelt and check its Lend-Lease scheme.''

Spokesmen at B'nai B'rith and the American Jewish Congress said they had not
seen the final report and could not comment on it.

Critique of Commission


Will Maslow, a former executive director of the American Jewish Congress and now
its general counsel, who followed the commission's work from the beginning and
read the interim report, was critical of its the scholarship. He said in an
interview:

''You set up a commission to set policy, not to find facts. A commission isn't
capable of producing a good scholarly work.''

Rabbi Marc H. Tannenbaum, director of the international-relations department of
the American Jewish Committee and a member of the commission, said he found the
references to his organization ''balanced.''

The report is less critical of the smaller Orthodox organizations, which helped
to save thousands of Polish Talmudic scholars using such unorthodox devices as
bribes and forged documents.

In the commission's analysis, many American Jews suffered from three serious
''misconceptions.'' First, ''Nazism was not essentially different from the many
forms of anti-Semitism of the past'' and Jews would come through it as they
always had.

Second, there was no point in trying to make deals with Hitler's allies and
satellites.

And finally, the American and British Governments ''would give the rescue of
Jews a serious priority.''

Issue of Auschwitz Rail Lines


The report recounts a number of unavailing efforts by Jewish leaders to prod the
Allied powers into action, but states that America and Britain ''made little or
no attempt until very late in the war to rescue Jews from the Holocaust, and in
some cases actually obstructed such attempts by others.''

Mr. Goldberg attributed the refusal of the Allies to bomb the rail lines to
Auschwitz to ''indifference.'' He said: ''I was with the Office of Strategic
Services during the war, and I can tell you that the excuse that we couldn't
afford to divert planes just didn't hold water. The Allied officials were
preoccupied with winning the war, and Jews just didn't amount to much.''

The ''crucial need,'' according to the report, was to offer inducements to the
authorities in such Nazi-allied countries as Rumania, Hungary and Czechoslovakia
to resist orders to deport Jews, to stop physical mistreatment and to permit
mass exoduses. The report concludes, ''This crucial need was not met.''

'To Hold Back the Truth'


The commission has had a controversial existence. In January 1983, its main
financial backer, Jack P. Eisner, a New York businessman who had survived a
concentration camp, withdrew his support, charging that ''the vestiges of the
old establishment were fighting to protect its name'' and ''to hold back the
truth.''

Organization spokesmen took exception to the language of an early draft of the
report, which stated, for example, ''Jewish organizations and their respective
leaders were emotionally as well as ideologically so absorbed with their
internecine struggles, rivalries and efforts to achieve hegemony in the Jewish
community that the perception of the urgency of the rescue was, if not ignored,
at least greatly diminished.''

That sentence, along with other harsh language, is missing from the final
report, which was completed after Mr. Goldberg had guaranteed the commission's
financing. Professor Finger said he was not under pressure from any Jewish
organization to tone down the criticisms.

A researcher who wrote the controversial draft and left the commission along
with Mr. Eisner, Samuel Merlin, called the final report ''an attempt at a total
cover-up.''

Lack of Care Imputed


Mr. Merlin, who is director of the Institute for Mediterranean Affairs, which
has researched the Holocaust, was a co-founder, with Menachem Begin, of the
Herut Party in Israel and a key representative in this country of the Irgun, the
underground Jewish guerrilla group that fought the British in Palestine.

He said in an interview, ''All the activities of the Jewish organizations taken
together were not commensurate to the magnitude of the disaster.''

The leaders of the 30's and 40's, he said, ''just didn't care enough.''

Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a vice president of the World Jewish Congress, who
teaches Jewish history at Columbia University, left the commission for several
months in 1982 in disagreement with Mr. Merlin. He said in an interview that the
Eisner-Merlin plan had been to set up a tribunal that would condemn the leaders
of the past for being too moderate.

''It was an effort to rewrite history for political purposes,'' he charged. He
summed up the judgment of the commission as, ''Yes, guilty - but with
extenuating circumstances.''

Doubt About Being Definitive


Several commission members appended statements:

Elizabeth Holtzman, the Brooklyn District Attorney, observed that ''commission
members had only a limited role in preparing the final report'' and that the
research materials on which they relied ''do not provide a comprehensive or
final analysis of the response of American Jewish organizations and leaders to
the Holocaust and certainly do not provide a definitive evaluation of the
response of American Jewry as a whole.''

City Comptroller Harrison J. Goldin, honorary vice chairman of the commission,
criticized the ''bad political judgment and, worse, tension, rivalry and
competition among the leaders and their respective organizations.''

Marvin E. Frankel, a former United States District Court Judge, called for
attention to the violations of human rights today in such countries as Cambodia,
Guatemala, the Philippines, El Salvador, South Africa and Nicaragua.

Jeanette Friedman-Sieradski, education coordinator of the International Network
of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors, expressed the hope the report would
lead to greater cooperation in meeting current threats to Jews around the world.

Jacob K. Javits, former Republican Senator from New York and a vice chairman of
the commission, wrote of the Holocaust: ''We must never forget that this
barbaric manifestation came from an otherwise literate and even cultured people
organized in a nation capable of producing a leader to implement this horror.''

Other Members of Panel


The other members of the commission are: Stella Adler, the actress.  Rabbi
William Berkowitz, president of the

American Jewish Heritage Council.  Dr. Bruno Bettelheim, the psychologist.
Rabbi Balfour Brickner of the Stephen Wise

Free Synagogue.  Sol C. Chaikin, president of the International

Ladies Garment Workers Union.  Saul S. Friedman, professor of history,

Youngstown (Ohio) State University.  Ira Hirschman, a former American Ambassador
to Turkey.  Charlotte Jacobson, president of the Jewish

National Fund. Frieda S. Lewis, president of Hadassah.  Isaiah M. Minkoff,
former president of the

Jewish Labor Committee. (Mr. Minkoff

died last May.) Philip M. Klutznick, former Secretary of

Commerce. Dr. Martin Meyerson, president emeritus of

the University of Pennsylvania.  Rabbi Israel Mowshowitz of the Hillcrest

(Queens) Jewish Center.  Martin Peretz, editor in chief of The New

Republic.Rabbi Joachim Prinz, former president of

the American Jewish Congress.  Dr. Harold M. Proshansky, president of the

Graduate School of the City University.  Abraham D. Ribicoff, former Democratic

Senator from Connecticut.  Simon H. Rifkind, former Federal Judge.  Rabbi Morris
Sherer, president of Agudath

Israel of America.  Rabbi Arthur Schneier, chairman of the

American section of the World Jewish

Congress. Rabbi Ronald B. Sobel of Temple Emanu-

El. Jack J. Spitzer, honorary president of B'nai

B'rith. Bernice J. Tannenbaum, chairman of the

Hadassah Medical Organization. Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, president of the

Synagogue Council of America. Walter H. Weiner, president of the Republic

National Bank of New York.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Prof. Seymour M. Finger(pg.B-4); photo of Arthur J. Goldberg

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              192 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               March 22, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AMERICAN IMMIGRANTS WHO COME AND GO

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 259 words


To the Editor:


In a March 13 news article, ''Some Greeks Find Promise of U.S. Fades,'' you say
that ''for the first time, a growing number of Greek immigrants are thinking
about leaving the United States and returning to Greece. . . .''

For centuries, Greeks have been migrating to all parts of the world - and for
centuries, they have been returning home in droves. Oscar Handlin, who wrote of
this tendency among Greek and other immigrants nearly three decades ago
(''Immigrants Who Go Back,'' Atlantic, July 1956), noted that ''from the start,
the currents of trans-Atlantic migration has flowed in both directions.''
Indeed, during the first three decades of this century, nearly four million
immigrants left the United States for Europe.

But the return home was not necessarily permanent. The process of migration and
transplantation transforms Greek immigrants into Greek-Americans,
Greek-Australians or Greek-Canadians, and the memory of the new land pulls them
back like a magnet.

I have an aunt who has crossed the Atlantic eight times in the last 15 years,
each time believing she was making a permanent move. Her latest crossing, made
last August, took her back to Athens.  In her most recent letters to me, she
wrote of how she longed for Astoria (New York).

Her plight - the vain search for the best of both lands - is by no means unique.
A word for Greeks who go back: Greece won't be what you think it is, anymore
than the United States was what you expected it to be.

NICK A. KOMONS Potomac, Md., March 13, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              193 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                March 25, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

GUATEMALAN FAMILY REACHES REFUGE

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 18, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 538 words

DATELINE: WESTON, Vt., March 24


With church bells resounding over the snow- covered landscape and hundreds of
people looking on, 12 Benedictine monks welcomed a family from Guatemala to the
sanctuary of a hilltop monastery here today.

The seven members of the family, who entered the United States illegally and
used the assumed name of Excot, arrived this morning with a caravan of 28 cars
ending an eight-day journey from Chicago. As the Excots stepped out of their
van, all except a 7-month- old baby, Inez, wore bandanas to shield their faces.
With photographers pressing close, the family was embraced by the monks of
Weston Priory.

The caravan was organized by the Chicago Religious Task Force on Central
America, an interdenominational group that has helped establish 110 sanctuaries
across the country for refugees from Central America. While the family was
traveling from Chicago, the group held rallies in several cities to dramatize
opposition to the Government's policies on immigration and on Central America.

After their arrival in Weston, Felipe and Elena Excot and their five children
joined about 500 well-wishers in a barn festooned with streamers and enclosed
with sheets of plastic against the cold.

The monks led the gathering in a ceremony of song and prayer with the family,
still masked, seated in a semicircle in the front of the room.

The Excots, in Spanish, told of atrocities suffered at the hands of the military
Government of Guatemala.

By offering public sanctuary to the family and other refugees who might follow,
the monks are defying Federal law and risk a penalty of five years in prison and
a $2,000 fine.

Over 10 years, the monks have traveled to Mexico several times, visiting with
refugees there and returning with stories of persecution and murder. They
decided to declare a sanctuary to make known their difference with United States
policy. One of the monks, Brother Philip, said they also wanted to provide a
shield against publicity for the Excot family.

Brother John, another monk, said, ''What we are doing is a demand and a
consequence of our faith.''

Immigration Officials' View


Immigration officials showed no interest in intercepting the Excot caravan.

William J. Dempsey, deputy director of the Immigration and Naturalization
Service for the district that includes Vermont and Maine, said the agency's
highest priority was apprehending employers of aliens who are in this country
illegally rather than bothering with the relatively small number of illegal
aliens who have sought sanctuary with church groups.

In the gathering at Weston was the Rev. Daniel Jensen, a Maryknoll priest who
hid Mr. Excot in Guatemala City three years ago. Mr. Excot was a farmer who said
he had been sought by Government forces because he had been teaching villagers
to read.

Father Jensen, who said he left Guatemala after receiving death threats, said of
the Excot family, ''If they're deported, they'd be killed.''

A person who traveled with the caravan quoted Mrs. Excot as saying upon her
arrival in Weston, ''I am very, very happy, and it's perhaps the saddest day of
my life.'' It was explained that she was expressing her grief for the country
she had left behind.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photos of Excot family

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              194 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 7, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

CONGRESS;
ON IMMIGRATION, A POWER BEHIND THE SCENES

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1021 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 6


When people search for reasons to explain why Congress did not pass a
comprehensive immigration bill last year, one name is repeatedly mentioned:
Garner J. Cline, staff director of the House Judiciary Committee.

In theory, Mr. Cline is one of many anonymous, self-effacing employees who make
the paper flow on Capitol Hill. In fact, he demonstrates how a knowledgeable
staff member who knows his way around Capitol Hill can wield power that far
exceeds what his title would suggest.

In private conversations, Mr. Cline, who is widely respected for his knowledge
of immigration law and of the political process, has, like many lawmakers,
expressed doubts about the workability of the immigration bill.

The bill would forbid employers to hire illegal aliens, while offering legal
status to many of them. It is supported by the Reagan Administration, which sees
it as a way to curtail illegal immigration. But it is opposed by Hispanic
groups, which fear the bill would lead to an increase in employment
discrimination.

All agree that it would have widespread legal, economic and social implications.
The bill has yet to reach the floor of the House, but there was renewed interest
this week as the Rules Committee held a hearing on it.  The rules panel sets the
terms of debate and decides which amendments may be offered on the floor.

Long Ties to Immigration


A dapper, round-faced man, Mr. Cline came to Washington in 1951, operated
elevators in the Capitol while attending Georgetown University Law School and
then went to work for Francis E. Walter, his hometown Representative in
Congress, who was the father of a landmark immigration bill, the McCarran-Walter
Act. Only seven of the 435 people now serving in the House were members when Mr.
Cline started work on Capitol Hill. Mr. Walter, like Mr. Cline, was a Democrat
from Easton, Pa.

Mr. Cline's current patron, Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr. of New Jersey,
the Judiciary Committee chairman, entered into negotiations to obtain an
acceptable immigration bill last spring. Mr. Cline privately and correctly
predicted that the bill would get tangled in a clash of conflicting interests.
The Senate passed a similar version of the legislation last May, two weeks after
the bill was approved by the House committee.

Mr. Cline's admirers, including some Hispanic lobbyists, say he shows realism
and wisdom born of long experience on Capitol Hill. His critics say he has
obstructed the bill in defiance of public opinion and the will of Congress.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who heads the immigration
subcommittee, and his House counterpart, Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, have labored for two years to win approval of the
legislation.

'A Whale in the Pond'


''Jim Cline is a heavyweight, a real heavyweight,'' says Mr. Simpson. ''He's an
old pro. He has seen lots of Simpsons and lots of Mazzolis come and go. He's an
awesome part of the process, a whale in the pond. His lack of enthusiasm for the
bill is contagious in the House.''

Without question, Senator Simpson said, he ''has been more influential than some
members of the House on immigration.''

Mr. Cline, seen by a nationwide television audience in 1974 when he called the
roll of Judiciary Committee members as they voted articles of impeachment
against President Nixon, now runs a staff of 84 people and a committee budget of
$1.6 million. His own salary is $67,200 a year.

Like most Congressional aides, he is modest about his role. ''I just work
here,'' Mr. Cline said. ''I don't determine policy. It's my practice to keep a
low profile, to be seen as little as possible.''

From 1955 to 1957, Mr. Cline gained valuable experience as clerk to the
Democratic committee that allotted patronage jobs to party members based on
seniority. In 1957 he moved to the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration,
where he met Frances Christy, the subcommittee clerk, whom he later married. She
is an immigration lawyer.

Lawrence H. Fuchs, executive director of a blue-ribbon study group in the Carter
Administration, the Select Commission on Immigration and Refugee Policy, said
Mr. Cline would ''sit there like a pasha'' while others thrashed out complex
questions. ''He seemed to be so convinced that immigration reform was impossible
that he did not actively engage in the work of our commission as other
Congressional staff people did,'' Mr. Fuchs said.

''That's true,'' Mr. Cline said, ''and there was a reason for it.'' The
commission staff, he said, ''was wasting time'' on questions that Congress had
thoroughly explored.

Roger Conner, executive director of the Federation for American Immigration
Reform, a coalition seeking more restrictive immigration laws, said Mr. Cline's
role had been to ''slow and divert the Simpson-Mazzoli bill at crucial points.''

Mr. Cline and Mr. Rodino ''delayed the bill with casual, subtle foot-dragging,''
Mr. Conner asserted. ''I'm not saying they were against the legislation, but
their strategy helped create the situation where it bogged down.'' Hispanic and
other groups took advantage of the delay to galvanize opposition to the bill, he
said.

'I Can't Delay a Bill'


Mr. Cline disputed that account. ''I can't delay a bill,'' he said. ''I don't
schedule bills.'' Aides to Mr. Rodino said the New Jersey Democrat had, for more
than a decade, led efforts to revise the immigration law and to stop the hiring
of illegal aliens.

Dale Frederick Swartz, president of the National Immigration, Refugee and
Citizenship Forum, a private nonprofit group, said Mr. Cline ''may have more
practical experience and wisdom on immigration issues than anyone else in
Washington.''

''Some people may assert that he is obstructing the Simpson-Mazzoli bill, but
that doesn't mean he is obstructing immigration reform,'' Mr. Swartz said. ''He
is committed to reforms that can be effectively implemented. To achieve that
goal, he wants active participation by the wide variety of constituencies and
Congressional committees most expert in this complex area.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              195 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 14, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

HELPING IMMIGRANTS TO SHOP WISELY

BYLINE: By SHARON JOHNSON

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13, Column 2; Style Desk

LENGTH: 1268 words


''We came empty-handed,'' said the slender 28-year-old man who had traveled more
than 11,000 miles to begin a new life in New York City. ''We left everything we
owned in Vietnam,'' Khai Minh Nguyen told his classmates in the English language
and employment services project for adult refugees at the McBurney Branch of the
Y.M.C.A. in Manhattan.

For two years, including some dark days of unemployment, Mr. Nguyen has had too
little income and too many needs.

''Buying clothes, food and household furnishings is so difficult in America,''
he said as he studied his worn but well-polished shoes. ''I often wonder if I
paid too much because I don't understand how the stores and banks work.''



Problems That Had Been Overlooked

In the past, the consumer problems of immigrants like Mr. Nguyen were largely
overlooked. Many refugees fell prey to unscrupulous merchants and confidence
schemes because no one taught them how to shop, use credit and negotiate
contracts.

Today, however, governmental offices responsible for consumer affairs, human
relations and housing complaints in New York and other cities are beginning a
variety of programs to educate immigrants. Although short on funds, consumer
affairs and mayors' offices and other departments are hiring bilingual
personnel, some of whom are answering complaint hot lines.

Y.M.C.A.'s, the United States Catholic Conference, the Lutheran Refugee Service
and other assistance organizations are also devoting more attention to consumer
education. Stephen Brobeck, executive director of the Consumer Federation of
America in Washington, one of the nation's largest consumer advocacy
organizations, said that more is being done to help immigrants because
''governmental agencies and private organizations realize that these people are
the most vulnerable consumers.''

''They fall victim to frauds that other people don't,'' he said. ''They pay
excessive rates of interest, buy shoddy merchandise and never complain because
they don't speak English and understand American business practices, and are
poor or uneducated.''

Immigrants are also getting more attention because there are more of them. There
were 14 million people who were foreign- born living in the United States in
1980, according to the Census Bureau, an increase of 4.4 million from 1970. In
New York State alone, there were 2.3 million foreign-born people in 1980, 13.6
percent of the population, an increase from 2.1 million in 1970 when
foreign-born people constituted 11.6 percent of the total.

From 1975 to 1984, the Census Bureau said the United States took in 900,000
refugees: 680,000 from Southeast Asia, 100,000 from the Soviet Union, 49,000
from Eastern Europe, 29,000 from Latin America and the rest from other
countries.

The consumer problems of immigrants vary widely, according to interviews with
government officials in eight cities. Those from Western Europe usually have the
least difficulty adjusting, because the economies there are most similar to that
of the United States. On the other hand, immigrants from developing and
Communist countries sometimes buy things they don't need. Faced with abundance
rather than shortages and government rationing, they may revel in this new-found
freedom and buy in excessive quantities.



'I Didn't Know What to Do' Banks are another source of problems, as Mr. Nguyen
discovered when he tried to open a savings account. ''All I wanted was a safe
place for my money, but the man at the bank tried to interest me in all those
different accounts,'' he said. ''I didn't know what to do because we don't have
these things in Vietnam.''

Signing contracts can get some immigrants into trouble. For example, the New
York City Department of Consumer Affairs helped a Spanish-speaking immigrant
resolve a problem after he paid a $250 deposit for some new furniture. When the
man signed the contract, he did not realize that city law provides that stores
must refund a buyer's money if they fail to deliver the merchandise within 30
days. After six months, when he still had not received his furniture, the
department wrote the store a letter informing its managers of the law. The store
refunded the deposit.

Immigrants from Communist countries often fall prey to mail-order frauds,
exploitative telephone solicitations and other schemes, according to Henry
Weiss, deputy director of education for the New York City Department of Consumer
Affairs, who has worked with immigrants from the Soviet Union.

''These people are used to working with the black market, and so if somebody
comes up to them and offers what seems to be a bargain, they fall for it,'' he
said. ''They don't comparison-shop because they are used to uniform prices set
by the state.''

To educate consumers, public agencies now offer booklets in languages other than
English, most often in Spanish, French, Russian and Vietnamese. Philadelphia,
for example, has distributed more than 50,000 copies of its Spanish version of
''Your City at Your Service'' booklet, and the New York City Department of
Consumer Affairs has given out more than 30,000 copies of its booklet of
shopping tips in Spanish, French, German and Japanese.

Workshops on credit laws, contract negotiations and comparison shopping have
been given by consumer affairs departments in New York and Los Angeles. Staff
members, often with the aid of translators fluent in Spanish, Japanese and other
languages, have discussed warranties, refund policies and laws designed to
protect tenants.

Groups like the Y.M.C.A. are also including more consumer education in their
English-as-a-second-language classes. The teachers will use typical situations
such as buying a television set on credit, hiring a carpenter or signing a lease
to introduce English vocabulary and grammar.

''We find that the students like this approach because it teaches them how to
negotiate in American society,'' said Donna Kelsh, project director of the
McBurney Y.M.C.A.'s program.

Bilingual services, especially in Spanish, are becoming increasingly common. The
New York City Department of Consumer Affairs has a special complaint telephone
number for Spanish-speaking consumers (566-3779).

The Dallas Action Center, the central complaint and request bureau for that
city, has several staff members who speak Spanish. Consumer affairs departments
in several California cities that have sizable Asian populations have staff
members or volunteers who speak Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese and Japanese.



Sometimes, a Simple Solution

''Sometimes all it takes is something as simple as getting someone who knows the
newcomer's language to talk to the store to work out a settlement satisfactory
to both sides,'' said Angelo J. Aponte, New York City Commissioner of Consumer
Affairs. ''In other cases, an investigation to find out if the proprietor has
violated any laws may be warranted.''

The Chicago Commission on Human Relations has persuaded more than 100 businesses
in the three neighborhoods where many immigrants live to give discounts on
everything from hamburgers to shoe repairs. The coupon booklets will be
distributed to about 3,000, beginning in June.

Innovative programs to solve immigrants' consumer problems are difficult to
start because of a lack of money for refugee assistance and consumer programs,
according to officials interviewed.

''Consumer programs are the first things to go whenever there is a cutback in
governmental funds,'' said Mr. Brobeck of the Consumer Federation of America.
''Consequently, newcomers often have severe problems that go unresolved.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Mary Jane Cowan

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              196 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                April 16, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

C.I.A. CHIEF SEES MIGRATION, NOT MINING, AS PUBLIC WORRY

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 8, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 334 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 15


The Director of Central Intelligence, William J. Casey, says he believes the
American public is more concerned about the wave of immigration that would
follow new Soviet and Cuban gains in Central America than about reports that his
agency has supervised the mining of Nicaraguan harbors, according to an
interview in U.S. News & World Report.

In the interview in this week's issue of the magazine, Mr. Casey declined to
comment on the mining, which is intended to curb a flow of weapons that the
Reagan Administration says the leftist Government of Nicaragua is channeling to
guerrillas in El Salvador.

But the head of the Central Intelligence Agency was quoted as saying: ''I think
that people in the long run are less concerned about reports of mining
Nicaraguan harbors than they are about the danger of creating a wave of
immigration into this country if Central America or any part of it should fall
under Soviet-Cuban domination.''

''If we have another Cuba in Central America, Mexico will have a big problem and
we're going to have a massive wave of immigration,'' he was quoted as saying.
''The effort to prevent this from happening is not going to excite Americans as
much as the threat they would face if things go wrong.''

Mr. Casey also said rebels seeking to overthrow the Sandinista regime in
Nicaragua, some of whom are reportedly supported by C.I.A. funds, are likely to
fail.  ''I think there's no chance that they will be able to overthrow the
Government,'' he was quoted as saying. ''In the resistance you have, it is said,
perhaps 15,000 men with rifles scattered around the open, unpopulated parts of
the country, which is where guerrillas can hide.

''They can't go into the cities, which the Government is protecting with tanks
and 75,000 men in the army, the militia and the security forces.''

He said chances that the Nicaraguan population would rise up and overthrow the
Government was ''a very long shot and unlikely'' because it is kept under close
control.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of William Casey

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              197 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               April 18, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

CHINESE WHO FELL FROM CONSULATE SAYS HE HAS APPLIED FOR ASYLUM

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. GREER

SECTION: Section B; Page 5, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 619 words


The Chinese businessman who fell while lowering himself out of a window of the
Chinese Consulate here last week said yesterday that he had formally applied for
political asylum.

The businessman, Zhang Zhenggao, a 46-year-old Peking engineer on a trade
mission sponsored by China's Ministry of Petroleum, said he had decided to
defect during a 16-hour flight to San Francisco from Peking on April 4.

Mr. Zhang said he had spoken on that flight with Chinese students who were
buoyed by the chance to study here, and he began to want the same opportunity
for his own two children.

''There is opportunity in Peking,'' he said. ''The problem is that competition
is intense and the population is very great. With this kind of competition, my
children won't make it.''

Filed Application for Asylum


He said he had filed an application for asylum with the United States
Immigration and Naturalization Service last Thursday. He must show that he would
be persecuted if he returned to China, according to an Immigration Service
spokesman, Duke Austin. Mr. Austin said it could take from two weeks to two
years to review the application. He would not confirm, however, that Mr. Zhang
had applied.

Mr. Zhang, a short man who seemed younger than his age, appeared confused and
shaken as he spoke in his room at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center,
where he was being treated for a broken ankle he suffered in the fall. His hands
shook, he clutched a bed sheet to his waist and he smiled only once, when asked
what he would do in the United States.

''I still don't know who would be interested in me,'' he said, speaking through
an interpreter.

''When I was on the airplane, I met a lot of students paying for themselves to
study here, and when I arrived in the United States I saw that everything was
very plentiful and that the economy was very advanced,'' he said.

''Those students, because they have friends and relatives here, can come and
study and be free,'' he added. ''When my children grow up, if I can obtain a
green card, because of my relationship, they can come to study.'' The card would
allow Mr. Zhang, as an alien, to live and work in the United States.

Mr. Zhang said he had been thinking of his 14-year-old daughter and his 16-
year-old son in Peking when he left the four other members of his trade mission
at the Chinese Consulate at 520 12th Avenue in Manhattan on April 9. For two
days, he said, he wandered, looking for a job that would enable him to stay.

One night, Mr. Zhang said, he stayed at a ''slum hotel.'' He said he could not
remember where it was. The next night, he said, ''I stayed on a bench for a
while, sometimes I sat, sometimes I just squatted and it was very cold.''

Frustrated, tired and hungry, he returned to the consulate on Wednesday, April
11, Mr. Zhang said. ''I thought again about returning to China,'' he said. ''But
when I went back, I couldn't explain myself because I was out for two days.'' He
said he had lied to the consular officials, telling them he had been kidnapped.
They told him they would ''escort'' him home the next day, he said.

That was when he decided, ''I couldn't go back,'' he said. The Chinese
Government would not trust him anymore, and he was ''embarrassed'' by his own
defection, he said. He said he believed he would be ''investigated'' and
''punished'' if he returned to Peking, where he lived with his wife and
children.

Between 2:30 A.M. and 3 A.M. Thursday, Mr. Zhang said, he dangled a fire hose
from a 10th-floor window of the 20- story building and began to climb down.

''I don't want to destroy my family,'' he said. ''All I want is that the
Government permits my children to study.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              198 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 2, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

GOING OUT GUIDE;

BYLINE: By C. Gerald Fraser

SECTION: Section C; Page 24, Column 4; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 625 words


ON AN INTERNATIONAL NOTE

Because practically everyone in this country is either an immigrant or a
descendant of immigrants - voluntary or otherwise, it is not too unusual that a
musical aggregation would consist only of immigrants. But Jack Kleinsinger has
put together his latest ''Highlights in Jazz'' program with a roster of
musicians who migrated to perform what amounts to the only art form that is
native to America - jazz.

Called ''Jazz Is My Passport,'' the program will be presented tonight at 8
o'clock in the New York University Loeb Student Center, 566 LaGuardia Place, at
Washington Square South. And the musicians are Toots Thielemans of Belgium,
harmonica; Astrud Gilberto, singer, and Paulo Jobim, piano, of Brazil; Adam
Makowicz of Poland, piano; George Mraz of Czechoslovakia, bass; Carlos Franzetti
of Argentina, piano; Valery Ponomarev of the Soviet Union, trumpet, and Ignacio
Berroa of Cuba, percussionist.

GETTING ON TOP OF THINGS The worst that can happen is that it's a cloudy or
rainy day. Short of that, a trip to the 69th-floor observation deck and the
70th-floor roof of the RCA building at Rockefeller Center is rewarding. The
110-story World Trade Center and the Empire State Buildings, at 102 stories, are
higher, of course, but the viewer can see the magnificence of those buildings
from the 70-story RCA building. Visitors can also scan the horizon and also see
the the Pan Am Building, the Brooklyn Bridge, a number of mid-Manhattan
corporate headquarters and hotels and look down on all of Central Park. On a
clear day it's a 50-mile view to the north, south, east and west.

There are 25-cent coin-operated viewfinders on the observation deck. And maps
inside the binoculars help those unfamiliar with local geography. The deck and
roof are open from 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Admission: $3; children, $2.50. If the
worst happens and visibility is under two miles, visitors get rain checks.

ENCORE As an actress, Lee Chamberlain has worked on television and in feature
films. Now she will perform on stage for the National Black Touring Circuit at
the Colonnades Theater, in ''Hospice.'' Miss Chamberlain will play the part of
the mother in the two- character drama opposite S. Epatha Merkerson, who will
portray the daughter. Miss Chamberlain, the director Frances Foster and the
playwright Pearl Cleage of Detroit, all won Audelco Awards last year for their
work with ''Hospice.''

A second Black Touring Circuit work is ''Every Goodbye Ain't Gone,'' by Bill
Harris, which stars Denzel Washington, a regular on the television series ''St.
Elsewhere'' and a star of the original stage production of ''A Soldier's Play''
and its soon-to- be released film version. Nathan George directed the original
production of ''Every Goodbye Ain't Gone,'' and he, too, won an Audelco Award.

These plays will open at 8 tonight at the Colonnades, 428 Lafayette Street,
across from the New York Shakespeare Festival, for a run through May 20.
Admission: $6; Theater Development Fund vouchers accepted. Information:
673-2222.

Time: 8 P.M. Admission: $7, students, $5.50. Information: 598-3757.

FREE POPCORN Greta Garbo is the star of this month's Wednesday evening film
series at the Undercroft Coffeehouse of Christ and St. Stephen's Church, at 120
West 69th Street, between Broadway and Columbus Avenue.

The series will start tonight at 8 o'clock, with the 1932 production of ''Mata
Hari,'' in which Miss Garbo plays the legendary World War I spy. Other stars are
Ramon Navarro, Lionel Barrymore and Lewis Stone. ''Ninotchka,'' ''Anna
Christie,'' ''The Painted Veil'' and ''Queen Christina'' will be shown on
successive Wednesdays. Admission: $2.50. Elderly persons, $1. Information:
787-2755.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Astrud Gilberto

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              199 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 9, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE FAIRER CURE FOR U.S. IMMIGRATION PROBLEMS

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 448 words


LIVES THAT NEED SAVING

To the Editor:

The Simpson-Mazzoli Bill is controversial and complex. Truth is little served,
however, by your editorial caricaturing serious debate on the issues as
''Hispanic Votes vs. Public Interest.''

The real problem is not, as you say, one of pitting a special Hispanic interest
against general American interests. It is the dilemma of how we as a country can
formulate effective immigration laws that will safeguard American citizens and
at the same time help to save lives of thousands upon thousands of people from
other lands who daily face death.

You deflect discussion of essential facts by a vague emotional appeal for
fairness and contort the content of the controversy to fit your own conclusions.
Three points illustrate this:


* By implication, Hispanic immigration is portrayed as an economic issue. While
economics is involved in almost all human activity, the underlying reason for
the tremendous flow of Hispanic people, rich and poor, into this country is not
lack of money but fear. Death squads, ''disappeared'' persons, terrorism,
torture and imprisonment are not the result of personal economic plight but of
oppressive political conditions.


* Your appeal for equity toward ''legal immigrants from around the world'' is
not new. It was one of the arguments used by leaders in this country for not
admitting larger numbers of Jews when the Hitler regime was allowing Jewish
emigration. Cries for equity have become standard fare of those unprepared or
unwilling to address directly the brutal reality of human extermination.


* You accuse Hispanic people of being concerned with only their ''special
interests'' when they oppose a bill that seems to be but a first step toward
major legislation to ''secure the borders'' of the United States against all
''foreigners.''

The Hispanic community is encouraging debate on this bill precisely to
demonstrate that it is not, as you assert, ''carefully balanced.'' It is filled
with problems and unanswered questions and reflects a total disregard for
current life-and-death realities.

As the immigrant group primarily affected by Simpson-Mazzoli, Hispanic people
wish to alert all citizens to monitor pending and forthcoming legislation
carefully and to support bills that will contribute to the preservation of human
life. This is what we call fairness. And this is the principal reasoning behind
the Catholic Church's consistent call for the widest possible discussion on
immigration reforms that will benefit all.

MARIO J. PAREDES New York, April 30, 1984

The writer is executive director of the Northeast Catholic Pastoral Center for
Hispanics.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              200 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 14, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

SIMPSON-MAZZOLI PENALTY FOR LAW-ABIDERS

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 298 words


To the Editor:


Your most recent editorial on the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill (''Hispanic
Votes vs. Public Interest,'' April 27) only increases the public's
misunderstanding of what this law would do. I agree with the proposition that
''it's wrong to favor illegal at the expense of legal entrants.'' How, though,
can you twist this statement to support the Simpson-Mazzoli bill?

The bill would accomplish the laudable purpose of granting some type of legal
status to some of the aliens illegally in the country, although many might not
qualify for that relief. However, it would also severely restrict the number of
aliens who could obtain permanent residence through existing legal channels, and
would therefore add years of delay to the long waiting periods that aliens
already experience.

For many aliens who have invested years while patiently waiting to receive
immigrant visas, and whose ability to become residents in the U.S. depends upon
their turn being reached before they marry, or attain a certain age, etc., the
Simpson-Mazzoli bill would eliminate any chance to join their families here. In
this sense, Simpson-Mazzoli would certainly favor the illegal entrants at the
expense of those who have abided by the law.  Your capsule description of the
Roybal bill, an alternative to Simpson-Mazzoli, fails to mention the key
difference between the two. The Roybal bill would enact employer sanctions for
hiring undocumented aliens by increasing existing penalties under the
minimum-wage, OSHA and similar laws, for which the enforcement structure is
already in place. That bill deserves serious consideration, or at least an
objective description of its terms.

ALAN VOMACKA Houston, April 30, 1984

The writer is an immigration lawyer.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              201 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 19, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition


;
IMMIGRANTS PLACE NO STRAIN ON THE AMERICAN ENVIRONMENT

SECTION: Section 1; Page 22, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 361 words


To the Editor:


In an article on your May 8 Op-Ed page, Russell W. Peterson, president of the
National Audubon Society, rehashes familiar myths about the dangers of
''increasing population'' in this country. Mr. Peterson advocates greater
restrictions on immigration to this country and claims that our steadily
increasing population is ''straining the land's natural carrying capacity.''

Such arguments fly in the face of the most elementary demographic facts. The
truth is that the U.S. has a very low population density when compared with most
similarly advanced industrialized countries (e.g., the Netherlands' and Japan's
population density is 344 and 314 people per square kilometer, respectively, as
against 25 for the U.S).

Furthermore, in spite of the alleged burdensome number of immigrants admitted
yearly into this country, the percentage of the foreign-born in our general
population has decreased dramatically since the early part of the century, from
14.6 percent in 1910 to 4.7 percent in 1970. Countries like Great Britain,
Sweden, Switzerland, France, Australia and Canada have a larger share of
foreign-born people in their populations than the U.S.  As to the matter of
environmental pollution, this can hardly be blamed on the relatively modest
increase of our population. It is rather the result of carelessness and
inadequate environmental protection measures. There have been many spectacular
improvements in environmental conditions in many countries in recent years, and
they had nothing to do with population control.

Finally, the above issues do not even begin to address the profound moral and
historical grounds upon which this country's generous immigration policies have
stood ever since the Founding Fathers first declared this land a bastion of
freedom.

To restrict immigration unduly would not only go against the very character of
this country, it would deprive us of the great benefits we have derived from
those uncounted immigrants who have made outstanding contributions to our
social, cultural and economic life.

GEORGE P. MANN Detroit, May 11, 1984

The writer is an immigration lawyer.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              202 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 24, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

COOPER UNION IS HAILED FOR EDUCATING THE POOR

BYLINE: By WILLIAM R. GREER

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 599 words


The head of the Ford Foundation praised Cooper Union at its 125th commencement
yesterday for having offered a free education since its founding and having
unlocked the ''doors of learning'' to the poor.

''Among the ambitious students who enrolled here were some of the new immigrants
who poured into America during the years following Cooper Union's beginning,''
said the foundation's president, Franklin A. Thomas.

''Similar institutions for adjustment and assimilation are as urgently needed
today as they were a century ago, for once again America is experiencing a huge
wave of immigration.''

The Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art ''has always been an
entry point to those motivated to win their way into America's mainstream,'' Mr.
Thomas said.



Obligations for Graduates

As a result, he added, the 224 seniors graduating from the private, tuition-
free college ''have more than an ordinary obligation'' to seek solutions to the
problems faced by the new wave of immigrants entering the country.

One of those graduating from Cooper Union's Schools of Architecture, Art and
Engineering was a 21-year-old fine- arts major named Sung K. Paik, whose family
brought him to the United States from Seoul, South Korea, 11 years ago. His
father, Nam S. Paik, runs a fruit and grocery stand on Columbus Avenue.

Immigrants come to America ''to become something,'' the graduate said in an
interview.  ''I always dreamed of getting a degree in art, and here I am.''

Mr. Thomas spoke at the ceremony in Cooper Union's Great Hall, in the basement
of the school's building on Seventh Street between Third and Fourth Avenues. In
the tradition of the hall, he used the podium that Abraham Lincoln used to give
his ''Right Makes Might'' speech against slavery in 1860.

Cooper Union was founded in 1859 by Peter Cooper, a New York industrialist and
inventor who, with his wife, invented a gelatin dessert that was the predecessor
of Jell-O. Mr. Cooper never received a formal education, but once said he
believed that education ''should be as free as air and water.''

In keeping with that belief, every student admitted to Cooper Union is given a
scholarship, although there is a $300 administrative fee, said Judith Garten, a
school spokesman. There are 1,035 students enrolled in the school, which has
about 10 applicants for each place and no financial restrictions on who can
apply, she said.

To celebrate its 125th anniversary, Cooper Union gave honorary degrees for the
first time in its history.

These were the recipients: ARTHUR A. HOUGHTON JR., former chairman of the Cooper
Union board of trustees and former president of Steuben Glass, Doctor of Humane
Letters, for his commitment ''to the achievement of good for all'' and for
''working always with institutions and men of high ideals.'' ADA LOUISE
HUXTABLE, former architecture critic for The New York Times, Doctor of Fine
Arts, for creating ''the precedent in the public realm for the intelligent
critique of architecture and of our urban society.'' LOUISE NEVELSON, sculptor,
Doctor of Fine Arts, for giving ''substance to shadow and light and assembled
houses of the spirit for us all.'' FRANK STANTON, former chairman of CBS, Doctor
of Humane Letters, for ''dedicated, courageous advocacy of the constitutional
rights of broadcast journalism.'' LISA TAYLOR, director of the Cooper-Hewitt
Museum, Doctor of Fine Arts, for increasing ''public awareness of historical and
contemporary design'' and for showing ''the old and the ordinary in a new and
illuminating way.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Franklin A. Thomas

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              203 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 May 28, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

MEXICO AWAITS JACKSON WITH POLITICAL WARINESS

BYLINE: By RICHARD J. MEISLIN

SECTION: Section A; Page 9, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, May 27


The Rev. Jesse Jackson will arrive here Monday for a visit that he says is
intended to increase his understanding of the Latin American view of the region,
the international debt problem and immigration.

The visit of a day and a half will include a meeting with Foreign Minister
Bernardo Sepulveda Amor, talks with members of the foreign affairs committees of
the Mexican Congress and with officials of the governing Institutional
Revolutionary Party and a rally at a national university.

It was arranged only after resolving serious reservations from top Mexican
officials, who were concerned that it might appear that the Government was
meddling in the United States elections or being used to promote the fortunes of
a particular candidate.

As late as Thursday afternoon, an official of the Foreign Ministry said that the
Government had still not decided whether to allow the candidate for the
Democratic Presidential nomination to see the officials he wanted, or even
whether to permit him to enter the country at all.

Careful Delineation of Visit


Permission was granted late Thursday, but the visit was carefully portrayed here
as being at the invitation of Senator Miguel Gonzalez Avelar, the leader of the
Mexican Senate, to keep it as separate as possible from the executive branch.

A top aide to President Miguel de la Madrid said Wednesday that there was ''no
way'' Mr. de la Madrid would meet with the candidate, because of the political
implications, even as Jackson aides were saying they held out hope for such a
meeting.

Mr. Jackson said in New Jersey on Saturday that he would be making the trip as
''a private citizen and peace activist who happens to be a candidate.'' But
Government officials here, conscious of the trip's publicity value among the
substantial Mexican and Mexican-American populations of California and New
Mexico, were privately dubious.

In most important respects, Mr. Jackson's views on Central America, the Latin
debt crisis and Mexico- United States immigration coincide with the official
stands of the Mexican Government.

He has strongly favored the Contadora group, an effort by Mexico, Colombia,
Venezuela and Panama to negotiate a settlement to the Central American conflict
through diplomatic rather than military means.

Support for Contadora View


Last month, Mr. Jackson called for the United States to ''stop our funding of
terror in Nicaragua and El Salvador now and to withdraw all our troops from
Central America,'' which follows in its sentiment, if not in its lower-key
diplomatic tone, the Contadora statement of objectives.

He expressed his endorsement of Mexico's position as well in his original letter
requesting the visit, which was addressed to Senator Gonzalez Avelar on May 14.
Mr. Gonzalez Avelar, who supported the visit, said that it was ''interesting for
us to talk to leaders of different places and different political currents.''

On Saturday, Mr. Jackson also said that peace in Central America was linked to a
solution of the Latin American debt crisis, which has gained new prominence in
recent weeks as a rise in United States interest rates has increased pressure on
the heavily indebted Latin countries.

'Options of Poor' Cited


The need to resolve worsening economic conditions, Mr. Jackson said, could
''make the economic powers lean toward more austerity programs, which will
strangle the options of the poor.'' He said this could be ''the basis for a
reaction, an explosion and for rebellion.''

And in a brief visit to the Mexican border city of Tijuana earlier this month,
Mr. Jackson criticized a proposed immigration bill that the Mexicans fear would
limit employment across the border, thereby putting increased pressure on their
own social system.

Characterizing Mexican immigrant labor as ''a cheap labor base strengthening our
economy,'' Mr. Jackson called for more humane treatment of Mexican laborers who
illegally enter the country.

Mexico's unemployment rate is officially put at 8 percent, but a study released
here Saturday by the National Autonomous University of Mexico projected that
could rise to more than 14 percent by the end of the year. More than 40 percent
of the working population is believed to be earning less than the minimum wage
of $25 a week.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              204 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                May 31, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and Maurice Carroll

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 138 words


'Benvenuti a Brooklyn'

''Benvenuti a Brooklyn, la prima

dim ora americana per generazioni di immigranti e profughi'' (''Welcome to
Brooklyn, the first American residence for generations of immigrants and
refugees.'')

So starts the latest in a multilingual series of booklets for newcomers to
Brooklyn. The Italian pamphlet, along with one in Asian languages (Chinese,
Korean, Vietnamese and Khmer), has been published by Borough President Howard
Golden (with financial help from the Brooklyn Union Gas Company), joining
earlier editions for Polish, Greek, Haitian and Hispanic immigrants.

''According to the 1980 census of registered aliens, 13,660 immigrants from
Italy, 6,000 from China and hundreds of families from Cambodia, Vietnam, Japan
and Korea have settled in Brooklyn in recent years,'' Mr. Golden said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              205 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 17, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS SPARED THE ISLAND TEST

SECTION: Section 4; Page 20, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 200 words


To the Editor:


The renovation and restoration of Ellis Island has been mentioned in papers
recently, notably in articles and letters in The Times. Ellis Island did indeed
play a considerable role in the immigration that helped to build our country,
but I wonder how many of those who want to restore it are aware of the part that
class played in Ellis Island interrogation.

Only steerage passengers went through Ellis Island. While cabins on the liners
were occupied mostly by Americans and wealthy European tourists, this was not
invariably the case. I have an example in my own family.

My maternal grandfather came to the United States as an immigrant at the turn of
the century. He traveled steerage, like most other immigrants, and was
interrogated on Ellis Island. He was questioned closely about his prospects and
qualifications. He was not allowed to have a job, but had to have good
qualifications for one.

My grandmother and the children, who came over several months later, had enough
money to obtain second- class cabins. They were politely interviewed in the
ship's salon and waved ashore without ever seeing Ellis Island.

ARTHUR J. MORGAN New York, June 8, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              206 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

POLISH NEWCOMERS REVIVE DYING GREENPOINT CUSTOMS

BYLINE: By MARVINE HOWE

SECTION: Section B; Page 1, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1196 words


The Greenpoint section of Brooklyn has become more Polish than ever since the
imposition of martial law in Poland in 1981.

Church and community organizations are flourishing because of new immigrants to
an area where Polish food, drink and politics are staples of the busy streets.

Residents say Greenpoint has the only chess club in the borough, organized by a
group of 20 ardent young chess players who arrived here only a few years ago
from Poland. A new clinic has opened, run by two Polish-American doctors who are
husband and wife.

Many of the new arrivals are young people, mostly in their 20's, who have taken
low-paying jobs and hope to return to their native land.



First Stop: Western Europe

They are people who first immigrated to Western Europe during the more liberal
period when the independent union Solidarity was in its heyday.

They are also Solidarity activists who had the choice of prison or exile. And
many are runaways who left Poland as students, tourists or travelers.

In the meantime, they have settled in Greenpoint, which has the largest
concentration of Polish Americans in the New York area.

''New York is the biggest, dirtiest city I've ever seen, but I feel good here -
this is my home,'' said Tomasz Kosinski, 21 years old, who had one more year of
study in Poland to become a mining engineer and is now working for an office-
cleaning company in Manhattan.



Impetus From Immigrants

Mr. Kosinski, once a member of the Polish National Junior Chess Team, is one of
the founders of the chess team.

They and thousands of other Polish immigrants have given Greenpoint an impetus.
There are about 50,000 people of Polish descent there, of some 600,000 in the
metropolitan area and more than 10 million in the United States.

But before the latest influx, Greenpoint was like many other established
immigrant communities. The second generation was becoming more American: old
customs, even the Polish tongue itself, were fading away.

''If it hadn't been for the emigres, we would have lost much of our language and
traditions,'' said Christopher Olechowski, 37, a social worker. He said he came
here in 1952 with his parents after they spent a year and half in a labor camp
in Siberia.

Mr. Olechowski now heads the refugee program at the Polish and Slavic Center,
the main community action organization in Greenpoint, providing refugees with
legal and medical referrals, job and housing assistance and instruction in
English as a second language.

A Surge in Polish Identity


''We feel a new surge in Greenpoint's Polish identity, with new immigrants
arriving and young people who moved out to Long Island coming back,'' said
Christine McMullan, a Polish community leader who married an Irish neighbor.

She is an officer of the Polish National Alliance of Brooklyn, a fraternal
benefit society that celebrated its 80th anniversary last year.

Among the new arrivals are Maria and Thaddeus Wilczewsksi, a husband and wife
team of medical doctors who live in Manhattan.

They opened a clinic in Greenpoint last February because they felt that care for
the new wave of immigrants was inadequate.

Free Shots, and House Calls


They give free vaccinations to immigrant children and, unlike most doctors in
the neighborhood, make house calls.

Originally a stretch of farmland bounded by the East River and Newtown Creek,
Greenpoint became a major shipbuilding and industrial center in the mid-19th
century, attracting Polish, Italian and Irish immigrants.

When the shipyards closed, they were succeeded by other industries: ironworks
and steelworks, oil and gas depots, paint and chemical factories, textile plants
and storage warehouses.

Greenpoint used to be a shabby transitional settlement, but lately people have
tended to stay. Greenpointers say they like the easy access to Manhattan, the
quiet neighborhood atmosphere and the low crime rate.

Short Trip to Manhattan


Just a 20-minute subway ride from Manhattan, Greenpoint has two- and
three-family brick and frame homes, many of them recently renovated.

''We're encouraging former Greenpoint residents to come back and new businesses
to come in,'' said Pearl Anish, executive director of the North Brooklyn
Development Corporation.

Manhattan Avenue is the heart of what residents call Little Poland.  There are
Polish meat stores with strings of kielbasi, bakeries with Polish bread and
babkas, supermarkets with Polish pickles, jams, dried soups and sauerkraut.

The Chopin Cinema occasionally shows Polish films. Around the corner, the
Polonaise Terrace specializes in catering traditional Polish wedding parties.
The Continental Restaurant offers Polish home-style cooking, vodka, honey
liqueur and cabaret music.

People often speak Polish on the streets and read Nowy Dziennik, the
Polish-language daily newspaper published in Manhattan, as well as the weekly
Greenpoint Gazette.

Ralph Carrano, editor of The Gazette, gives due coverage to community events,
such as the annual Miss Polonia contest at the Polish National Home.

There are numerous Polish travel agencies, offering charter flights and the
delivery of food and gift parcels to Poland.

The Turysta Travel Agency sends containers with 26,000 pounds of food and
clothing from relatives and church groups every two weeks, a 50 percent increase
over last year.

Every Sunday, crowds of worshipers of Polish descent gather at three Roman
Catholic churches: St. Stanislaus Kostka, St. Anthony of Padua and Sts. Cyril
and Methodius.



Six Masses in Polish

St. Stanislaus Kostka is said to be the largest Polish church in the United
States, with six masses in Polish and five in English on Sundays.

The Polish-Americans of Greenpoint have their differences.

The oldtimers, who generally built their lives around the church, do not always
get along with more activist newcomers, brought up under Communism.  And some
recent arrivals have even begun to challenge the old guard leadership.

Tadeusz Chabrowski, a writer and a personnel specialist, bridges both groups.

He came to the United States in 1961, received a master's degree in religion and
contemporary culture from Temple University, went to Poland in 1973 for his
doctoral thesis on Catholic-Marxist dialogue and returned to settle in
Greenpoint.

He is active in community organizations and is trying to find permanent premises
for the new Brooklyn Chess Club.

''I feel more and more you have to be part of America to help the old country,''
Mr. Chabrowski said. He and his wife, a mechanical engineer, bought an old house
in 1978 and renovated it themselves.

The neighborhood's newcomers are keenly interested in politics and many of them
belong to Pomost, a pro-Solidarity movement with headquarters in Chicago and a
New York office in Greenpoint.

Darius Szczepanczyk, a 27-year-old Polish-American representative on Mayor
Koch's committee for ethnic affairs, criticizes old-time Polish-American
politicians for their lack of interest in politics.

''There are more important things to fight against than the Polish joke, '' he
said.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Darius Szczepancyzk; photo of parishoners

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              207 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 22, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 466 words


Still 50-50 on Immigration? For about 15 minutes, the movie ''Moscow on the
Hudson'' turns profoundly funny. A Soviet musician has just defected in New York
City, in Bloomingdale's, and who teaches him about life in this country? A young
woman sales clerk, recently arrived from Italy. A cab driver from Korea. A bus
passenger who's Iranian. A woman shopper who's Japanese. It's the modern melting
pot, barely an exaggeration of what's happened since the last immigration law
reform, in 1965.

By narrowly passing the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill Wednesday, the House of
Representatives took a momentous step toward protecting the melting pot. The
bill would strengthen the country's ability to protect its borders - and that,
in turn, would guard against the rising swell of pinched, exclusionist sentiment
against all immigrants, legal or not. But it's still too early to cheer.


A week ago, one of the bill's strongest supporters estimated warily that its
chances were ''no better than 50-50.'' He turned out to be uncomfortably close.
The House vote was 216 to 211. In percentage terms, that's 50.6 to 49.4, and the
bill isn't yet finally approved. There are notable differences between the House
bill and the version easily passed by the Senate. Reconciling them in a
conference isn't likely to be difficult, but then both houses must endorse the
result.  It's far from sure that the House, after narrowly voting yes once, will
do so again. The conferees are unlikely to finish until after the Democratic
Convention, where the Presidential candidates might continue their thirsty
courting of Hispanic favor by flailing at the bill some more.  Through all this
time, there will be abundant questions raised about Simpson-Mazzoli's
effectiveness. One of its provisions is amnesty for illegal aliens who have been
here for years. Amnesty acknowledges that they entered during a time when the
nation's border enforcement policy was a sham, a Big Wink. Yet if offered legal
status, will such aliens dare to come forward from the shadows and actually
claim it?  As to enforcement, will the Immigration Service be able to manage the
bill's strong new provisions? These would impose a heavy statistical burden on
the service, the same service that in the wake of the Iran hostage crisis was
unable to tell how many Iranian students there are in this country, even after
spending $3 million.  The outlook for making Simpson-Mazzoli work is promising.
The Immigration Service began to prepare for a possible legalization months ago
with a sensitive and wide-ranging program. It is adding enforcement personnel
and installling new statistical systems. The chances are good that Simpson-
Mazzoli can be made as effective as it is necessary. If the House vote stands.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: editorial

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              208 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 June 24, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CASTRO IS REPORTED READY TO FREE SOME PRISONERS ON JACKSON VISIT

BYLINE: By BERNARD GWERTZMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1166 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 23


Cuba has agreed to a longstanding American proposal to open negotiations for
normalizing the flow of Cubans between the two countries, State Department
officials said today. They said Cuba wanted to start the talks after the
American elections in November.

The United States had asked for an earlier start. Cuba's insistence on waiting
was met here with a mixed reaction by senior officials who were evidently
unhappy with the apparent effort to time the talks in connection with the
elections.

A State Department official said although the agreement was a positive
development, the United States would examine the situation in coming months
before setting a firm date.

The officials, in disclosing the previously unpublicized exchanges, said Cuba's
stand was consistent with an apparent policy decision not to do anything that
might seem to contribute to President Reagan's re-election.

The United States has been pressing Cuba intermittently for four years to take
back the few thousand criminals and mental patients among the 125,000 refugees
who came by boat to Florida in 1980 from the Cuban port of Mariel.

A year ago the United States said that until Cuba agreed to the return of the
unwanted refugees, the United States would not admit Cubans except for immediate
family members of American citizens or of permanent American residents.

Cuba finally agreed to discuss the issue of the unwanted refugees in the overall
context of migration, the State Department officials said.

The United States limitation on entry has been criticized by some members of
Congress who are involved in refugee matters, such as Representative Peter W.
Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, who is chairman of the House Judiciary
Committee.

These critics say the United States had already promised admission to thousands
of Cubans, some of whom had been political prisoners and others who had only
distant family members in the United States.

Some See Confrontational Policy

Other members of Congress have accused the Administration of pursuing a
confrontational policy toward Cuba, particularly over El Salvador, and over
Cuba's military presence in Angola and elsewhere in Africa. They have lamented
the lack of negotiations between Cuba and the United States, although there have
been some high- level discussions.

A summary of the exchanges between Cuba and the United States over migration was
sent last week by the State Department to Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on refugees.

A copy of the summary, in the form of a State Department cablegram to the
American Interests Section in Havana, was obtained from an Administration
official who wanted to demonstrate the degree of discussion over the refugee
issue and Cuba's views on not negotiating before the election. The authenticity
of the document was confirmed by State Department officials.

One official said Cuba indicated in its most recent message last month that it
believed discussions now would redound to Mr. Reagan's benefit and be seen as a
sign of Cuban weakness.

Consistent With Soviet Stance

This attitude is consistent, he said, with the revelation last month that Cuba
had informed Angola that it did not want to withdraw its troops from Angola
before the American elections. It is also similar to the reluctance of the
Soviet leaders to do anything that might be perceived as helping Mr. Reagan, the
official said.

A Cuban troop withdrawal from Angola is crucial to insuring South Africa's
agreement to allow South-West Africa to become independent as the new nation of
Namibia. The United States has sought to promote a Namibia solution and has
urged Angola to call for the phased withdrawal of the 25,000 to 30,000 Cubans in
tandem with South Africa's withdrawal from Namibia.

On May 2 the United States proposed that negotiations begin May 21 on migration
issues, ''including specifically the return to Cuba of persons whom the
Government of the United States wished Cuba to take back,'' the American summary
said.

Elections Called an Obstacle

On May 22, according to the summary, Cuba said it ''viewed positively the
willingness of the United States Government to begin negotiations with Cuba
about normal migratory procedures,'' but ''asserted that the pre-electoral
situation in the United States is not the appropriate moment to begin talks.''

''It would be convenient to postpone beginning talks until after Nov. 6,'' the
document quoted Cuba as having said.

The message ''indicated no objection to an announcement by the United States
Government that there is mutual agreement to begin these talks in this period
after Nov. 6,'' the summary said.

Cuba cautioned, according to the summary, that ''if this Cuban willingness were
to be interpreted publicly as a sign of weakness on the part of Cuba it would
constitute in this case a total obstacle to realizing the planned talks.''

The State Department said that, on the basis of the Cuban message, it ''assumes
that it will not be possible to initiate talks with Cuba on the return of the
Mariel excludables and the restoration of normal immigrant visa processing until
after Nov. 6.''

''However, there is now a prospect for such talks at that time,'' it said.

Exchanges Began in May 1983

According to the summary, the United States told Cuba on May 25, 1983, that
until it took back the unwanted refugees, the United States would limit entry to
Cubans who are immediate family members of American citizens or permanent
residents.

On June 17, 1983, the summary said, Cuba rejected the American demand that it
take back the unwanted refugees without discussion, but it said it was willing
to discuss ''the establishment of standards which would permit normalization of
migration conditions between both countries, conditions which would include
norms to follow with respect to persons who, having committed illegal acts in
one of the two countries, travel illegally to the other.''

On July 7, 1983, the United States said that if Cuba was prepared to take back
the unwanted refugees, the United States would be ready to hold talks.

Exchanges Set Back by Grenada

On Sept. 22, 1983, Cuba said it was ''prepared to initiate conversations with
the United States on migration,'' adding that ''the possible return to Cuba of
persons who traveled from the port of Mariel could be one of the matters
discussed and resolved,'' the summary said.

The American invasion of Grenada in October 1983, which led to the death of many
Cubans working on the island, apparently suspended the exchanges until March 20,
when the United States reopened the issue and proposed starting the talks on
March 30. Cuba replied on March 27 that ''the time frame was too short,'' the
document said.

American officials stressed that most of the 125,000 refugees from Mariel were
eligible for permanent status in the United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              209 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                June 26, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
Vietnam Says U.S. Quota Delays Emigration

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 141 words

DATELINE: HO CHI MINH CITY, Vietnam, June 25


Vietnam said today that it had stopped issuing exit permits for resettlement in
the United States because of a backlog of nearly 30,000 cases caused by a United
States immigration quota on Amerasian refugees.

A Vietnamese official here urged Washington to take more people who want to join
American relatives, including all children fathered by Americans during the
Vietnam War. The official, Nguyen Phi Tuyen, head of consular affairs, said the
United States quota of 1,000 refugees a month, including Amerasian children, was
to blame for the backlog.

''For the U.S. alone,'' he said, ''we still have in Vietnam 28,000 to 29,000
people who have been granted exit visas but are still awaiting entry visas to
the United States. Since we have 29,000 awaiting entry visas, we hesitate to
grant more exit visas if they can't get entry visas.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              210 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 4, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

'PERVERSE' OPPOSITION TO AN IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 149 words


To the Editor:


As an Englishman (here on a perfectly legal student visa) who has been trying,
unsuccessfully, for nearly two years to obtain a green card, I find it galling
to think that, had I come in on a tourist visa and hidden out in New York doing
odd jobs for a couple of years, I would now be eligible for United States
citizenship.

As it is, I find the idea that the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration reform bill
discriminates against those very people, mainly Hispanic, to whom it would give
citizenship, perverse and infuriating. I happen to think it is a good and
necessary bill, of unprecedented generosity.

Surely, if the bill discriminates against anyone, it is against those of us who
have respected your immigration laws, and whose task would become even more
difficult owing to new low ceilings on legal immigration.

ANTHONY D. GILES New York, June 25, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              211 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 12, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

STALKING THE NEWEST ETHNIC DISH

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 11


Here is news for citizens who think of the nation's capital as a city of
silverware and starched linen: On any given evening, legions of Washington's
best and brightest can be found eating stew with their bare fingers.

This satisfying ritual takes place at a galaxy of Ethiopian restaurants that
have become the rage in a city not otherwise well known for culinary daring.
With the opening of its 10th such restaurant recently, Washington boasts more
Ethiopian eateries than any other city this side of Addis Ababa, according to
Tsehaye Teferra, director of the Ethiopian Community Development Center here.

The implications go beyond the culinary. The spread of Ethiopian eating is
evidence that this city, which the popular mythology populates with
Bartlebyesque bureaucrats and political windbags, in reality has some vibrant
pockets of ethnic life and is steadily acquiring more.

Colonized by Immigrants


For many years, Washington has had a diverse, and largely overlooked, Hispanic
population. More recently, the capital and some suburbs have been colonized by
immigrants from Indochina, Africa, Central America and the Caribbean. The first
migrants come as students or diplomats or servants of diplomats; others come
because there is the nucleus of a community, or because capital cities have a
special lure.

Contrary to popular lore, the crypto-English of the Federal Register is not
Washington's only language. The suburban Montgomery County school district
publishes newsletters for parents in seven languages. Passengers of Washington's
heavily immigrant taxi fleet may overhear two-way radio conversations in
Amharic, the Semitic language used officially in Ethiopia, or in Korean,
Spanish, Arabic and other tongues.

This development is most obvious in the restaurants of multiethnic neighborhoods
like Adams Morgan, where, within a few blocks, a diner can sample Jamaican goat
curry and West African yassa au poulet, Salvadoran papusas and Lebanese kibbeh,
Mexican tripe soup and Afghan aushak. A local joke has it that whenever a
government friendly to the United States falls, a new restaurant opens in Adams
Morgan. Nothing proves it better than the Ethiopian boom.

Capital of the Movement


The popularity of Ethiopian food has spread around the entire United States,
according to Mr. Teferra, who counts four Ethiopian restaurants in New York,
five or six in Los Angeles, four in Oakland, Calif., and two or three in Dallas.
But Washington is the capital of the movement, an extraordinary claim for a city
where adventuresome eating more often means the ability to manipulate a watery
cocktail and a plate of meatballs-on- toothpicks while shaking hands at a
political fund-raising party.  The pioneer of the Ethiopian boom was Mamma
Desta, a restaurant opened here in 1977 by Desta Bairu, a former chief cook for
the Ethiopian Ambassador to the United Nations. The dethronement of Emperor
Haile Selassie three years earlier had created a permanent community of
disenfranchised diplomats, graduate students reluctant to go home and refugees.
They flocked to Mamma Desta, in a remote corner of Northwest Washington.
Gradually, the clientele expanded to include nostalgic Peace Corps veterans and
other curious Americans. This landmark closed this year after the chef, now 70
years old, moved on to awaken the palates of Chicago.

As drought and civil war in their native land helped to swell the number of
Ethiopians in Washington - Mr. Teferra says there are between 10,000 and 15,000
in the area - Mamma Desta was joined by the Blue Nile and the Red Sea, Axum and
Adulis, Massawa and Asmara, Saba and Dama, Lalibela and, most recently, the
Addis Ababa, named for the capital of Ethiopia.

Exotically Spiced Stews


They serve exotically spiced stews, spooned out in heaps on a bed of spongy
millet-flour pancakes called injera. Washingtonians have gradually become fluent
in such Ethiopian fare as doro wat, which consists of chicken and hard-boiled
eggs smothered in a sauce of onions and red pepper, and kitfo, chopped raw beef
infused with spiced butter and accompanied by homemade cottage cheese. Diners
pass a basket of injera, folded like napkins, to be torn into scraps and used
for scooping up bite-sized bundles of the various dishes piled on the communal
platter.  The meal is often accompanied by beer or Ethiopian honey wine called
tej.

For the timid, Ethiopian menus customarily offer a choice of Italian dishes, a
relic of the days when Italy colonized that corner of Africa. Residents of Adams
Morgan know, however, that it is not the best Italian food bargain in the
neighborhood. For that, one goes to the Adams Morgan Spaghetti Garden, where the
cooking is done by immigrants from Iran.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              212 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 13, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CUBAN-U.S. MEETING ON REFUGEE MEETING IS REPORTED

BYLINE: By PETER KERR

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 389 words


Cuban and United States officials began discussions in New York yesterday about
immigration issues, including the possible return of 1,000 Cuban refugees who
came to the United States during the 1980 boatlift, a Reagan Administration
source said last night.

The United States had been pressing Cuba intermittently for four years to take
back criminals and mental patients among the 125,000 refugees who came by boat
to Florida in 1980. About 1,100 Cubans considered inadmissable under American
immigration law are being held at a Federal prison in Atlanta.

The secret discussions yesterday, at an undisclosed location in New York, would
apparently be the first official negotiations between the United States and Cuba
under the Reagan Administration. The discussions involved representatives of the
State Department and the Cuban Deputy Foreign Minister, Ricardo Alarcon de
Quesada, according to United Press International.

A man who answered the telephone at the Cuban Mission to the United Nations, who
identified himself as Arturo Mendos, confirmed that Mr. Alarcon de Quesada was
in New York.

Spokesmen for the State Department would not confirm last night that the
negotiations had begun. But in a press briefing earlier in the day, Alan
Romberg, a spokesman for the department, said the Cubans had indicated that they
were willing to move the timetable forward from November and that the
Administration was expecting to begin talks ''sometime soon.''

The State Department said last month that the Cuban Government had agreed to
open negotiations for normalizing relations, but at the time American officials
said they thought the Cubans would wait until after the November elections. The
officials said they believed that Havana was delaying the talks so as not to
help President Reagan's re-election.

A year ago the United States said that until Cuba agreed to the return of
unwanted refugees, the United States would not admit Cubans except for immediate
family members of American citizens or of permanent American residents.

Last month, the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson visited Havana and emerged from meetings
with Fidel Castro having secured the release of 49 prisoners held in Cuba and a
series of proposals to ease strained United States-Cuban relations, including an
early start on immigration talks.



LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              213 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 14, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

U.S.-CUBAN PARLEY SAID TO BE NARROW

BYLINE: By PHILIP TAUBMAN

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 531 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 13


Talks between the United States and Cuba that began in New York on Thursday will
be limited to a narrow agenda of immigration issues and are unlikely to produce
any major improvement in relations, senior Reagan Administration officials said
today.

The talks, at an undisclosed location in Manhattan, are the first substantive
negotiations on specific issues between Washington and Havana since President
Reagan took office.

The primary subject of discussion, the officials said, would be the eventual
return to Cuba of more than 1,000 unwanted refugees who came by boat to Florida
in 1980 from the Cuban port of Mariel. These refugees, most of them criminals
and mental patients, according to American officials, were among 125,000 Cubans
who came to Florida during the boatlift.

The United States is also prepared to discuss other immigration issues,
including the resumption of a normal flow of Cubans to the United States, the
Administration officials said.

Shift in Policy Denied

They said, however, that the negotiations, which were originally expected to
begin after the election in November, did not signal any basic shift in American
policy toward Cuba.  ''These talks will not lead to broadened bilateral
relations,'' a senior Administration official said. He added, ''We see no
fundamental change in Cuban behavior that would justify a significant
improvement in relations at this time.''

The Administration has repeatedly accused Cuba of playing a key role in
advancing Soviet interests in Central America and the Caribbean, including
giving support to Nicaragua and to guerrillas in El Salvador.

Administration officials said that they have been pressing Cuba periodically for
three years to take back the unwanted refugees from the Mariel boatlift, and
that a positive response was received from Cuba in May, although Havana asked
that the talks not begin until after the United States elections in November.

Jackson Visit Is Cited

Cuba agreed to move up the talks, the officials said, after the Rev. Jesse
Jackson, a candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination, visited Havana
in June and arranged for the release of 22 American and 26 Cuban prisoners.

United States officials said today that Fidel Castro, the Cuban leader, was
apparently hoping to maintain the momentum toward discussions begun during the
Jackson visit.

The officials said that the Cuban delegation in New York was headed by Deputy
Foreign Minister Ricardo Alarcon de Quesada. They declined to identify the
American negotiators beyond saying the delegation included officials from the
State Department and the Justice Department.

Wayne S. Smith, who was the head of the United States interests section in
Havana from 1979 to mid-1982, said today that it was a ''sheer
misrepresentation'' for the Administration to contend that Cuba, rather than the
United States, was to blame for the lack of talks about the unwanted refugees in
the last three years.

Mr. Smith, who is now a fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace, said: ''Cuba has offered to hold these talks since 1981. It is the Reagan
Administration that stalled.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              214 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 18, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

THE DEMOCRATS IN SAN FRANCISCO;
MONDALE PROMISES CAUSUS HE'LL FIGHT IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 527 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 17


Walter F. Mondale pledged today to work against an immigration bill strongly
opposed by Hispanic leaders, but Hispanic delegates still threatened a boycott
of the first ballot at the Democratic National Convention.

The guerrilla movement, sponsored by delegates committed to Senator Gary Hart
and the Rev. Jesse Jackson in the Hispanic caucus continued despite efforts by
caucus leaders, including San Antonio Mayor Henry Cisneros and Representatives
Robert Garcia, Democrat of the Bronx, and Edward R. Roybal, Democrat of
California.

Leaders of the insurgency say they will continue to press the boycott issue
until Wednesday night's vote on the party's Presidential nomination.

After a one-hour meeting with Hispanic leaders, Mr. Mondale issued a statement
calling the immigration bill ''harmful'' and saying it would ''cause human
suffering.''

Representative Roybal, leader of the Hispanic Caucus, said he believed the
Mondale statement would end the threat that Hispanic delegates would withhold
their votes on the first ballot for the Presidential nomination Wednesday.

''It is good enough for the delegates and good enough for the convention,'' Mr.
Roybal told reporters.

Stormy Meeting of Delegates


At an ensuing caucus marked by stormy debate, a boycott motion by Carlos Alcala,
a California delegate, failed on a 39-to-39 vote. But Mr. Alcala said he would
bring the motion up again at another caucus Wednesday and demand a roll-call of
all Hispanic delegates and their alternates.

Mr. Mondale's statement said he had opposed the immigration legislation and
would ''communicate'' that opposition to ''the legislative leadership.''

Still an issue for the Hispanic delegates is the position of organized labor.

Hispanic leaders have met with Lane Kirkland, president of the American
Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, and he was
expected to issue a statement. Mr. Roybal said that Mr. Kirkland ''opposes the
bill in its present form.''

That opposition is based on a provision of the bill that would allow large
numbers of foreign agricultural workers into the country to do harvesting, a
move that labor believes would take jobs away from American workers.

A number of Hispanic leaders, including several members of Congress, as well as
the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Mr. Mondale's son, William, appeared at the caucusg
to plead for support.

Mario Obledo, president of the League of United Latin American Citizens, chief
sponsor of the boycott demand, said his organization had set a deadline for
action by both the party's leadership and organized labor to kill the
immigration bill.

Privately, some Hispanic leaders said negotiations were under way between
Hispanic leaders, House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. , and possibly Mr.
Kirkland to work out a statement that would satisfy the Hispanic demand that the
bill be killed when it is considered again by the House after the convention.

Many of the grass-roots delegates want a specific commitment that the party
leadership will work to kill the bill when it comes out of a House-Senate
conference after Congress returns Monday.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              215 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 19, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION BILL GAIN ENDS HISPANIC THREAT

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 317 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, July 18


Hispanic Americans said today that their campaign to block a comprehensive
immigration bill was making substantial progress, with the Democratic National
Convention now firmly on record in opposition to the bill.

Hispanic delegates had been threatening to abstain on the first ballot of the
Presidential nominating process tonight in symbolic protest against the bill,
which was sponsored by Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, and
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky.

By voice vote, the caucus of Hispanic delegates decided today not to recommend a
boycott.

The Senate approved the bill in May 1983 by a 76 to 18 vote. The House of
Representatives approved a similar bill last month by 216 to 211. The two houses
will probably appoint a conference committee in the next week or two to start
reconciling their differences.

The legislation would prohibit employing illegal aliens but would offer legal
status to many already in this country.



Bias Seen as Likely

Hispanic groups strongly oppose the bill on the ground it would increase job
discrimination against people with dark skin or a foreign accent. Supporters
deny this. The platform adopted by the convention Tuesday night denounces the
legislation.  A few minutes after the vote by the Hispanic caucus, Walter F.
Mondale and Geraldine A. Ferraro, his choice for Vice President, appeared before
the Hispanic delegates and received an enthusiastic reception. Both denounced
the Simpson-Mazzoli bill. Mrs. Ferraro, who voted against the bill as a member
of the House, was much more specific in her criticism.

''The bill,'' she said, ''is wrong because it is discriminatory. The bill is
wrong because it targets in on individuals just because they are who they are.
The bill is wrong because it looks to deprive individuals of their ability to
get jobs. The bill is wrong, wrong, wrong.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Hispanic Americans

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              216 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 20, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

KENNEDY CLOSING POSES QUESTIONS ON AIR DELAYS

BYLINE: By RICHARD WITKIN

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1121 words


On June 30, a Saturday, heavy rains that flooded access roads around Kennedy
International Airport caused an eight-and-a-half-hour halt to flights. Dozens of
incoming flights were diverted to Boston, Philadelphia, Hartford and elsewhere.

After landing in other cities, many passengers were forced to wait in planes for
up to six hours.

The frustrations and discomforts of those stuck for extended periods have
prompted questions about whether passengers' rights were unduly infringed upon
and about what can be done to deal with airport snarls in the future.



Q. Why were the delays at the

other airports so long?

A. According to airline and government officials, the delays existed largely
because planes had to wait their turns to reach unloading gates and, in the case
of international flights, because the throngs severely overtaxed short-handed
immigration and customs staffs.

In some cases involving planes diverted early on, airline officials were
apparently hoping that Kennedy would be speedily reopened.

Rather than have the planes taxi to available gates and unload, these officials
decided to keep planes away from the terminal areas so they would be ready to
take off quickly for New York. By the time events proved them wrong and they
decided to unload, the gates were filled, immigration and customs facilities
were jammed and the planes were in for hours of additional delays.



Q. May a passenger who is on a

plane that has landed, and who insists that he be allowed to get off,

be forbidden to do so?

A. Yes. The passenger may flatly be told not to get off.

If the plane was at the gate, there would be little motive for keeping the
passenger on board, although the issue of paying for hotels, meals and ground
transportation would figure in an airline's calculations. But if the plane was
not at the gate, the passenger would not have the right to take matters into his
own hands.

Safety regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration would be violated if a
passenger opened a cabin door or an escape hatch and simply left the plane. The
crew could alert airport security forces, and the passenger could be taken into
custody. At issue would be not only the passenger's safety but the safety of
others on that and other planes whose movements might be interfered with.

In addition, F.A.A. rules prohibit a passenger from interfering with a crew
member's duties. So even an attempt to get off would be a violation if it was
made against the express instructions of a pilot or flight attendant. F.A.A.
violations are punishable by fines of up to $1,000.



Q. May a passenger on an international flight obtain preference in

leaving the plane if he is willing to

forgo customs clearance of his luggage and return for it later?

A. The willingness of an international passenger to forget about his luggage
does not alter requirements for personally clearing customs or for undergoing
processing by health and immigration services.

Q. Suppose passengers on a departing plane are suddenly told

that their flight is the 30th in line

for takeoff and that there will be a

long delay. If some passengers insist on abandoning the trip, is there

any obligation on the part of the

airline to taxi the plane back to the

gate or find some way of getting

them off the aircraft?

A. There is nothing in the aviation regulations that says an airline must comply
with such requests. In an emergency - if, for instance, someone was sick - the
captain would probably taxi back or have a vehicle sent out.



Q. If there is no medical or psychological emergency, what recourse is there for
passengers who

decide that the trip has been made

pointless by the prospect of an inordinate delay? What recourse is

there for passengers who are on a

plane that has landed and insist

that arrangements be made to get

them off?

A. Legal experts say that there are no clear-cut precedents, and that a lawsuit
would present complex problems. But theoretically, they say, passengers might
sue the airline or whomever they hold responsible for any damages they feel they
have suffered.

If a lawsuit is being thought of, the experts say, it would be advisable for
passengers to make clear to crew members that they want to leave and believe
that they are being held against their will.

They also should make sure they have witnesses. Otherwise, as one expert said,
''the case isn't going anywhere.'' The fine print on the back of an airline
ticket holds out little that a lawyer could build on. A key paragraph reads in
part: ''Carrier undertakes to use its best efforts to carry the passenger and
baggage with reasonable dispatch. Times shown in timetable or elsewhere are not
guaranteed and form no part of this contract.''



Q. Are there any laws that could

be passed that would afford passengers further protection against

being delayed for unreasonable

periods aboard aircraft on the

ground?

A. Laws evidently could be passed. Legal experts say it would be difficult to
frame them because there are so many possible circumstances to be covered. But
it could be done. If so, the laws would probably supersede the common-law bases
for bringing damage suits.



Q. Do not airline, airport, customs, immigration and other authorities have
contingency plans

for dealing with disruptions like

the one on June 30?

A. Yes. But the best-laid plans depend on human judgments, communications and
economic calculations.

The United States Customs Service says it has a system for moving extra
inspectors from a temporarily quiet facility to one that is overloaded.

The decision would depend on several judgments: Could the personnel switch be
accomplished in time to have an appreciable effect on speeding clearances? Would
the switch be worth the cost in money and working time of the inspectors? Could
extra inspectors make a difference if the delay was primarily due to the limited
number of processing booths?

Airport authorities can generally dispatch buses or other vehicles to take
passengers from planes to immigration and customs facilities. But not every
airport has a processing area big enough to absorb the contingents of 350 to 400
passengers from half a dozen jumbo jets.

The average airline insists that its primary interests are the safety,
convenience and comfort of its passengers.  The airlines also have a big
interest in getting their planes and well-paid flight crews back to the original
destination so that a new load of paying customers can be boarded for the next
scheduled flight. But mistakes in planning and judgment are frequently made. A
number of mistakes appear to have been made on June 30.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              217 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 23, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FOR ALIENS, RULES, FORMS AND MORE RULES

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 628 words


The ''green card,'' the most important document an alien can possess, is not
green, but white with red and blue lettering.

That is just one of the many puzzles that aliens visiting and living in the
United States encounter in the world of immigration rules, forms, procedures and
options.

There are four basic classifications of aliens, each of which has its own rules.
These are the groups:

ILLEGAL ALIENS - These are foreigners who have no entry visa and enter the
country by avoiding inspection. They are deportable at any time.

NONIMMIGRANTS - These are aliens temporarily admitted for a specific purpose and
period of time that depends on the nature of the visit.

In almost all cases, they must obtain a temporary visa before arrival and carry
an ''I-94'' form, an arrival-departure record issued upon entry and endorsed to
show their status - whether student or diplomat or temporary worker or tourist.
Federal immigration regulations bar many groups from entering the United States,
including prisoners, lepers, homosexuals, polygamists, prostitutes, syphilitics
and stowaways.

It is possible to change from one nonimmigrant status to another, such as from a
student to a temporary worker, but the procedure can be complex and
time-consuming.  Among nonimmigrants who can apply for the right to work in the
United States are students who have finished school and are approved for
practical training in their field. Others, such as aliens who come to the United
States for a specific job or are engaged to a United States citizen, are
authorized to work on arrival.

IMMIGRANTS - These are aliens who have been granted permanent residence in the
United States. They can remain indefinitely, own property, work and travel
inside and outside the United States as long as they comply with the laws
relating to alien registration and change of address. They are required to carry
alien registration-receipt cards, better known as green cards, at all times.

Certain nonimmigrants may qualify for permanent residence. They include
children, brothers and sisters of citizens; spouses and children of permanent
residents; talented professionals and skilled and unskilled labor in short
supply.

The process of getting residency can be daunting. For workers, for example, an
ETA750 labor certification must be submitted by the prospective employer to the
State Labor Department to determine if the alien worker is needed.

If so, the prospective employer files visa-petition form I-140 with the
immigration service. If the worker quota is not filled, the application
proceeds. The nonimmigrant files an I-485 petition for change to immigrant
status, a biographical information form, a birth certificate, two photographs
and a fingerprint chart.

If all the paperwork is in order, an interview is scheduled for about three
months later. Permanent residency can be approved on the day of the interview.

REFUGEES - Refugees are aliens who have been granted asylum for their political
beliefs. The applications go through an entirely different screening process -
by both the immigration service and the State Department.

Refugees usually are granted the right to work in the United States. A year
later, they are called in and interviewed for permanent residency. Permanent
residents who live in the United States for five years - three if married to a
citizen - can petition for naturalization as United States citizens.

The New York district immigration office, at 26 Federal Plaza, is open Monday
through Friday, except holidays, from 7:30 A.M. to 5 P.M. Forms can be ordered
by calling (212) 349-5286. For information about immigration matters, a
selection of 48 different tapes can be heard by calling (212) 206-6500.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              218 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               July 25, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

SENATE MAY BE ASKED TO ACCEPT HOUSE VERSION OF IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 19, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 798 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 24


Senate leaders said today that they were seriously considering urging the Senate
to accept the House version of a comprehensive immigration bill so the House
would not have to vote again on the legislation.

The comments by several Republican Senators reflected a widely held view that as
a result of lobbying by Hispanic groups at the Democratic National Convention in
San Francisco last week, House opposition to the bill was slightly stronger now
than it was when the House passed the bill last month by a vote of 216 to 211.

Walter F. Mondale, the Democratic candidate for President, and Geraldine A.
Ferraro, the nominee for Vice President, told Hispanic groups at the convention
that they would do everything they could to defeat the legislation.



Discussion of Strategy


The Senate passed a similar bill by a vote of 76 to 18 in May 1983.

The chief sponsor of the Senate bill, Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of
Wyoming, and the chief sponsor of the House bill, Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, met today to discuss their strategy.

Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, the majority whip, said Mr. Simpson
had indicated to his colleagues that he was ''about ready'' to accept the House
bill if that was the only way to insure passage of the immigration measure this
year.



Conference Would Be Avoided


Senate acceptance of the House bill would avoid the need for a conference
committee to work out a compromise between the Senate and House versions of the
legislation.

Any compromise bill would have to be approved by both houses before it could be
sent to President Reagan for his signature. Supporters of the legislation said
they were unsure whether they could gain approval for a revised bill in the
House, which is controlled by the Democrats.

Senator Simpson opposes a provision of the House bill that would establish a
temporary foreign worker program under which aliens could enter the United
States for seasonal work harvesting perishable crops.



Limit Was Promised


Many House members voted for the bill after receiving assurances from Mr.
Mazzoli that he would try to delete this provision or to limit the number of
aliens who could take advantage of it. As approved by the House, the bill sets
no such numerical limit.

Mr. Simpson and the Reagan Administration also oppose the more liberal amnesty
provisions of the House bill. The House measure would offer legal status to
illegal aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived
here continuously since. The Senate bill offers legal status only to those who
entered this country before Jan. 1, 1980.

The Senate has twice approved the Simpson-Mazzoli bill by a margin of more than
4 to 1, and senators said it would probably accept the House bill if asked to do
so.

But to make such a request would be a high-risk political strategy for
Republicans and Democrats. Mr. Simpson has said he would not ask Congress to
send the White House an immigration bill without an assurance that President
Reagan would sign it.

Promise Made to O'Neill


Mr. Simpson made that promise last year to allay the concerns of the Speaker of
the House, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Democrat of Massachusetts, who feared Mr.
Reagan would veto the bill to curry political favor with Hispanic voters.

The House and Senate versions of the bill would both prohibit the employment of
illegal aliens and impose penalties on employers who did.

Leaders of Hispanic organizations contend that the bill would cause an increase
in discrimination against Hispanic workers; supporters of the bill deny it would
have such a result.

White House officials said Mr. Reagan would sign the Senate bill, but said he
had many reservations about the House bill. When the House approved its version
last month, Attorney General William French Smith said that ''some of its
features require substantial change.''

Speaker O'Neill, while reiterating his personal dislike for the legislation,
said today that he would promptly appoint conferees if the Senate requested a
conference with the House.

Mr. O'Neill said the margin of passage in the House had been so small that ''if
somebody in the leadership had sneezed, it would have gone the other way.''

Despite the statements by some Senators today that Mr. Simpson would ask the
Senate to accept the House bill this week, he insisted in an interview that he
had not made a decision. ''There were a lot of promises made that I would not
want to jump ship on,'' he said, without giving details.

Mrs. Ferraro voted against taking up the bill in the House, and voted against
the bill itself. People in her district in Queens did not like giving amnesty to
illegal aliens, she explained.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              219 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 26, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRATION MEASURE IS PUT IN DOUBT

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, July 25


The White House said today that the House version of a comprehensive immigration
bill was ''unacceptable,'' raising the possibility that Congress could not
complete action on the legislation this year.

Larry Speakes, the White House spokesman, said the House bill would be too
expensive. ''The Senate version is what we want,'' Mr. Speakes told reporters
flying to Texas on a campaign trip with President Reagan. ''The House version is
unacceptable.''

About three hours later Senator Alan K. Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, the
chief sponsor of the Senate bill, issued a statement saying he had not decided
how to proceed. However, he insisted that the bill was not dead.

Mr. Simpson said he was ''tumbling around'' in search of a strategy to rescue
the bill, which has been passed twice by margins of more than 4 to 1 in the
Senate.

A Tangled Situation


The landmark legislation is now in a tangled situation. If it goes to a
conference committee, the normal way of reconciling differences between the two
chambers, it would have to be approved again by each chamber, and there is no
guarantee that the House would go along. On the other hand, if the Senate
accepted the House-passed bill, that version of the legislation would go to the
President, who, according to Mr. Speakes, could not accept it.

Mr. Simpson and other Senate leaders said Tuesday that if the White House would
accept the House version, they might urge the Senate to pass it. The House vote
approving the bill last month was 216 to 211.

Mr. Simpson and the chief sponsor of the House bill, Representative Romano L.
Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, had assured House members that they would try to
resolve many points of disagreement in a conference committee.

House Democrats reacted angrily today when they learned of the possibility that
the Senate might accept the House bill, precluding such a conference and
avoiding the need for another vote on the bill in the House.

Mr. Simpson said he would prefer to have a Senate-House conference on the bill,
even though it was highly uncertain whether the House would now accept a
compromise negotiated in such a conference. But Mr. Simpson said he reserved the
right to take the House- passed bill to the Senate floor.

Differences in Measures


The House bill, unlike the Senate measure, would authorize a new temporary
foreign worker program, under which farmers and ranchers could bring aliens into
the United States to do seasonal work harvesting perishable fruit and
vegetables. Organized labor and Hispanic groups oppose this provision, as does
Mr. Simpson, who fears it could lead to what he calls ''an open- ended guest
worker program.''

Both bills would prohibit the employment of illegal aliens and authorize civil
penalties against employers who hired such aliens. Both bills would also offer
legal status to some illegal aliens. Under the Senate bill, the amnesty would
apply to aliens who entered the United States before Jan. 1, 1980, and have
lived here continuously since that date. The House bill sets the eligibility
date at Jan. 1, 1982, so more aliens would qualify. In addition, the House bill
would provide larger amounts of money to state and local governments to help pay
the cost of social services for aliens who gain legal status.

Reviewing today's developments, Senator Alan Cranston of California, the
Democratic whip, said, ''It's beginning to look like the Simpson-Mazzoli bill is
dead for this session of Congress at least, and that is very, very good news.''

The Democratic candidates for President and Vice President, Walter F. Mondale
and Geraldine A. Ferraro, assured Hispanic groups at the Democratic National
Convention last week that they would try to defeat the bill, which would make
the most significant changes in immigration law in more than three decades.

Mr. Simpson said today that he and Mr. Mazzoli were shocked to see ''the
pandering and posturing'' that took place at the convention. He added: ''The
raging partisan hysteria, hoopla and hype against this legislation which sprang
from the Democratic National Convention, and which continues to reverberate
through the halls of this Congress, may have seriously damaged the chance that
the House could accept any bill reported by a conference, regardless of how
skillfully it might be crafted.''

If Congress fails to pass the legislation this year, Mr. Simpson said, it might
be a decade or more before there is another serious effort to deal with the
influx of illegal aliens.

Earlier today, Representatives Kent Hance of Texas and Patricia Schroeder of
Colorado, both Democrats, announced the formation of a broad coalition to fight
the bill. It includes the Associated General Contractors, the Chamber of
Commerce of the United States, the National Grocers Association, the American
Civil Liberties Union and the League of United Latin American Citizens.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of ALan Simpson

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              220 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                 July 29, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

THE NATION;
IMMIGRATION BILL LOOKS LESS LIKELY

BYLINE: By Michael Wright, Carlyle C. Douglas, and Caroline Rand Herron

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 316 words


As Congress settled in for a brief between-conventions session last week, there
were mounting indications that the much-fought-over immigration bill might not
make it to President Reagan's desk after all.

The House and Senate, in their separate votes, have approved legislation
dissimilar in many respects. Because the vote in the House was a squeaker,
supporters are reluctant to give the House an opportunity to reject a compromise
that might be drafted by a conference committee. One big reason for their
caution is that the Democratic candidates for President and Vice President have
said they would do their best to rally Democratic Representatives against the
bill.

Technically, the House could be sidestepped; the Senate could simply scrap its
bill and accept the House's. But last week an Administration spokesman said the
House version was ''unacceptable,'' prompting California Senator Alan Cranston,
the Democratic whip, to say immigration legislation was beginning to look ''dead
for this session of Congress.''

Election-year considerations reared up elsewhere on Capital Hill. The Senate
voted, 86 to 3, to insure that contrary to existing guidelines Social Security
recipients get a cost- of-living increase on Jan. 1 even if inflation hasn't
risen above the 3 percent mark. In several political speeches last week,
President Reagan promised to support such action.

Earlier in the week, in one of its infrequent displays of interest in
environmental legislation, the Senate unanimously approved a bill that would
beef up Federal hazardous- waste disposal regulations. By a 74 to 19 vote, the
Senate also approved a resolution that urged President Reagan to withdraw his
nomination of Anne McGill Burford as chairman of the National Advisory Board on
Oceans and the Atmosphere. Mrs. Burford was forced to resign as head of the
Environmental Protection Agency early in 1983.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              221 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                July 31, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE WORLD;
Vietnam Official Wants Talks on Amerasians

BYLINE: Reuters

SECTION: Section A; Page 5, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 157 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, July 30


A Vietnamese immigration official has called for direct talks with the United
States to speed the resettlement of Amerasians from Vietnam, refugee workers
said today.

But United States officials in Bangkok said they saw no need to discuss the
issue with Hanoi.

Refugee workers who recently returned from Vietnam quoted the immigration
official, Nguyen Phi Tuyen, as saying he wanted talks to resolve technical
problems that have slowed resettlement. But a United States official in Bangkok
said: ''We don't really see any necessity for talks. The orderly departure
program is the only program set up to take Vietnamese refugees, and it is
working.''

Vietnam estimates that it has 11,000 to 20,000 Amerasians, children of mixed
race fathered by United States servicemen during the Vietnam War.

The United States has taken 3,244 Amerasians and their relatives since Vietnam
first began letting them go in 1982, refugee workers said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              222 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 1, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

Terrorist Suspect Halted in Canada

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 8, Column 4; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 93 words

DATELINE: BUFFALO, July 31


United States Immigration and Naturalization Service officials here said that a
suspected Syrian terrorist had been stopped from boarding a Los Angeles- bound
airplane Sunday in Toronto, Ontario.

Sahak Kalanjian, 42 years old, was turned back because his passport had expired
and had been altered to make it appear that the document was still in effect,
the authorities said.

His name was on a list compiled by Federal agencies of suspected terrorists,
according to William H. Truesdale Jr., deputy director of the immigration
service in Buffalo.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              223 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 2, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
Held for Deportation, A Salvadoran Marries

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and Maurice Carroll

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 357 words


She was denied political asylum

when she entered the United States illegally last year from El Salvador, and
faced possible deportation. When the decision by the Immigration and
Naturalization Service to deport Julia Tezpa was delivered last week, she was
immediately arrested and held at a processing center at 201 Varick Street in
lower Manhattan.

Her deportation, originally scheduled for July 20, was halted by a temporary
restraining order. The order, by Judge Whitman Knapp of Federal District Court
in Manhattan, allowed her to get married yesterday.

Miss Tezpa wed John Harris, a native of Belize and a legal permanent resident,
at the center. Both are 22 years old. They met while Mr. Harris was doing light
construction in the building in Brooklyn where Miss Tezpa lives. They had been
planning to marry for some months.

Mrs. Harris will be deported by next weekend, according to the Center for
Immigrants Rights Inc., a nonprofit advocacy organization, in Manhattan.

''I just want to get married and I just want her to stay here with me,'' the
bridegroom said on arriving at the center.

Mrs. Harris has applied for voluntary-departure status, meaning, according to
her lawyer, Anne Pilsbury, that she would still leave immediately, but pay her
fare and be allowed to return after her husband had applied for a visa for her.
Once back in the United States, she could then apply for permanent residence.

If she is denied voluntary departure, Miss Pilsbury said, she could apply for a
waiver of deportation once in El Salvador. If that is denied, her husband could
not apply for her return for five years, Miss Pilsbury said.

For the bride, Miss Pilsbury, who is affiliated with the immigrants' center,
brought a wedding bouquet of white carnations and yellow chrysanthemums and a
small wedding cake to the detention center. The flowers were allowed inside the
center, but the cake ran afoul of rules controlling food from outside.

A spokesman for the Center for Immigrants Rights, Darlene Kalke, said that Mrs.
Harris's chances of returning were good, but that she might face a 6-to-10-month
wait in El Salvador.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              224 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 5, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. and Cuba End a Round Of Talks About Immigration

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 14, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 135 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 4


The United States and Cuba have concluded a second round of talks on immigration
issues and have agreed to continue the talks later, the State Department said
Friday.

The department's deputy spokesman, Alan D. Romberg, said that the tenor of the
talks, held Tuesday through Thursday at a secret location in New York, was
''serious'' but that no agreements on ending differences had been reached.

The United States wants to deport thousands of Cuban refugees who are ineligible
to remain in this country because of criminal records or health problems. These
Cubans were among the 125,000 who came here from the Cuban port of Mariel four
years ago.

Cuba is seeking to reopen normal immigration from Cuba, which was suspended
after the Mariel boatlift.

The first round of talks was held in mid-July.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              225 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 9, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NEW YORK DAY BY DAY;
AT THE STATUE OF LIBERTY, VOLUNTEERS FROM OVERSEAS

BYLINE: By Susan Heller Anderson and David Bird

SECTION: Section B; Page 3, Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 251 words


While 40 young volunteers said

farewell to New York yesterday in a dozen languages, another 40 arrived. They
were the third group in a summer volunteer program in which American and foreign
young people have been working on the Ellis Island and Statue of Liberty
restorations.

''Before coming here, I thought the Statue of Liberty was on Ellis Island,''
said Massimo Barbieri, 20 years old, of Milan, Italy. ''I knew nothing about
immigration.''

The group has had tours and lectures on history and has done mostly menial jobs
at both sites.

''It's incredible to think of the millions of people who went through there,''
Mr. Barbieri said. ''I think that some of my own relatives must have passed
through.''

Ellis Island is ''a big thing in Irish history,'' said Therese McHugh, 22, from
Galway, Ireland, ''because so many Irish have come here.'' She visited a
friend's grandfather who went through Ellis Island in 1915.

Marie-Dominique Barboza, 22, from Orleans, France, knew the Statue of Liberty
was French. ''But now I realize that Americans are people who came from
Europe,'' she said.

In the American contingent were youngsters whose parents immigrated through
Ellis Island.

During the summer, 120 young people will have worked in the program, organized
by Americorps, a nonprofit group sponsored by the Council on International
Educational Exchange. They stay at the William Sloane House of the Y.M.C.A. on
West 34th Street, courtesy of the Y and J. C. Penney, another supporter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              226 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 12, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. Detains 79 Tongans

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8, Column 6; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Aug. 11


Immigration agents have detained 79 people from Tonga who said they planned to
attend the Los Angeles Olympics but were really trying to slip into the country
illegally, the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service said today.

Harold Ezell, regional director of the service, said the tour operator, Sipa
Sekona, had receipts for apartments that had not been rented.

Officials said the visitors had six-month visas, but were told they could stay
longer. Sekona was being held in lieu of $25,000 bond on charges of conspiracy
to smuggle aliens into the United States, the officials said. Many of the Tongan
visitors were released after posting $1,000 bond.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              227 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               August 30, 1984, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

NINE LINKED TO PLOTS IN DALLAS

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section B; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 232 words

DATELINE: DALLAS, Aug. 29


Federal agents believe they foiled a pair of terrorist plots against the
Republican National Convention last week, including a plan for an ultralight
aircraft attack, by arresting nine Iranians and Palestine Liberation
Organization supporters, officials said today.

The alleged plots were never confirmed, officials said, but they said threats
had been made.

The nine were arrested before and at the time of the convention and were charged
with violating their immigration status, said Ronald Chandler, district director
of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The agency refused to name the
nine.

''The Secret Service and-or the F.B.I, had information on the students
concerning threats against the convention and possible involvement with the
P.L.O.,'' Mr. Chandler said. ''The Iranians were alleged to have been involved
in some plot involving an ultralight aircraft.''

Federal investigators did not elaborate on what type of attack they thought
might be conducted with the aircraft, most of which have tiny motors and wings
of nylon fabric, and do not require pilots' licenses. Nevertheless,
sharpshooters were assigned to watch the airspace around the convention center
for suspicious aircraft, Federal officials said.

All nine were released on bond after the convention and will face deportation
hearings, Mr. Chandler said. No date has been set for the hearings.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              228 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                August 31, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

THE RUDEST CABBIES IN THE NATION?

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Aug. 30


As H. R. Crawford, a member of the District of Columbia City Council, tells it,
taxicab drivers here are among the rudest in the nation and, too often he says,
they don't know their way around the city. He intends to do something about it.

Mr. Crawford is particularly concerned about the difficulty many blacks say they
encounter in hailing a cab in a predominately black city that is run by blacks
and is said to have more taxis per capita than any other big city in the nation.
He says the situation is especially galling because many drivers who routinely
refuse black passengers are themselves black and many are recent immigrants,
often from African nations.

Mr. Crawford, who is black, too, has proposed changes that would make it tougher
to qualify to drive a cab here. If Mr. Crawford has his legislative way, only
United States citizens, resident aliens or those authorized by the United States
Department of Justice or the Immigration and Naturalization Service will be
eligible. Applicants will have to prove residency and demonstrate knowledge of
the English language and of the Washington area.

Called 'Anti-Foreigner'

''I recognize that some persons will take this as a direct attack against
foreign persons,'' he said. ''This is certainly not intended. But what we've
discovered is that a number of these persons have entered the country with false
documents and are operating these vehicles without the proper licensing. The
type of irresponsibility that we have going on here would not be tolerated in
any other city.''

Mr. Crawford's proposal has drawn fire from some drivers and is almost certain
to draw more when hearings are held on it in mid-September. Among the critics is
Jacob Akendele Ademisoye, a Nigerian driver.

Mr. Crawford says Mr. Ademisoye once ignored his hail. Mr. Ademisoye denies the
charge and says of Mr. Crawford's proposal, ''It's anti-foreigner.''

''I will tell you the truth,'' Mr. Ademisoye said, ''in this cab business, we
don't have any protective devices at all, like you have in New York, where they
have dividers. And you have to take measures to determine whether someone will
harm you. But it's not just foreigners; it's cab drivers, period. Saying that
foreigners won't pick up blacks - it's not true. It's also common among American
drivers.''

While Mr. Crawford puts much of the blame on foreigners, he concedes that ''of
course, the problems are across the board,'' with many native American drivers,
black and white, at fault. A number of other city and cab officials, and even
drivers, agree.

''I've seen a lot of drivers, some foreign but just as many Americans, who will
go past two blacks to pick up a white person half a block away,'' said Demries
Maxton Jr., a 27-year- old black Washingtonian who drives a taxi.

Trouble in 'Certain Areas'


William J. Wright, chairman of the Taxicab Industry Group, a lobbying group,
does not consider Mr. Crawford's bill to be ''anti-foreigner.''

''As in all big cities,'' he said, ''there are certain areas that drivers don't
want to go into. It is unfortunate that a number of foreign drivers are involved
in these complaints.''

Earlier this year the District's Public Service Commission cited ''substantial
evidence'' that some riders were discriminated against because of their race or
where they live. Indeed, the Hackers License Appeals Board, which regulates the
taxi industry, says its most frequent complaint is ''refusal to transport.'' But
neither the commission nor the license board has addressed the matter of who is
driving the taxis.

An incident that especially annoyed Mr. Crawford occurred in June when he and a
fellow council member, Wilhelmina Rolark, tried to hail a cab shortly after
midnight after a concert at the Washington Hilton Hotel.

''Three cabs, all with foreign drivers, refused to pick us up,'' he said. ''One
said he could not understand us, and one gentleman deliberately pulled off,
almost hitting a bystander.''

One of the drivers, Mr. Crawford later said, was Mr. Ademisoye.

Another Incident


Another Washington resident, Sandra Taylor, a lawyer who is a Senate aide, said
she once tried to get a taxi in front of a hotel on Dupont Circle. ''But the
driver told me he wasn't on duty, so I got out,'' she said. ''And then, about
half a block up the street, he picked up a white male passenger.  That sort of
thing happens a lot.''

A Nigerian driver, who is here on a student visa and asked not to be named, says
there has been ''a great misunderstanding'' between taxi drivers and blacks
seeking rides. ''If you get a black in the cab, often he has a negative attitude
because he's been passed up by another driver, and that causes problems,'' the
driver said. ''Many blacks also don't tip. Money is money, whether it comes from
a black or white, and we all think in terms of business.''

Mr. Crawford does not buy these arguments.

''The moment a person indicates that he wants to go across the Anacostia
River,'' Mr. Crawford said, referring to one of the city's black residential
areas, ''either the driver can't understand English, they don't know where it's
located or they hurry up and fix a sign in the window that says 'on call.' ''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: drawing

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              229 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 15, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

PANEL PROGRESSES ON IMMIGRATION BILL

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 895 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 14


House and Senate conferees made substantial progress in negotiations on a
comprehensive immigration bill today, but they could not agree on how to prevent
job discrimination against United States citizens and aliens legally in the
country.

The conferees did agree to eliminate an important provision of the Senate-
passed bill that would have established an overall limit on legal immigration
and revised the system for distributing visas to aliens.

Representative Peter W. Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey, chairman of the
conference committee, insisted that nothing should be done to restrict the
present flow of legal immigrants or to reduce the availability of visas for
aliens whose brothers and sisters were citizens of the United States. The Senate
conferees acceded to his wishes on this issue.

Prison Penalty Approved

The House and Senate conferees have already agreed to authorize fines and prison
terms for employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens. The purpose of this
provision is to discourage illegal migration to this country. Many Democrats and
Hispanic leaders contend that the penalties would increase the likelihood of job
discrimination against legal aliens and citizens of Hispanic origin. They assert
that employers, to avoid the penalties in the bill, would shun job applicants
with dark skin or a foreign accent.

The House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved an amendment, 404 to 9, in
June that would prohibit employers from discriminating against legal aliens in
hiring or recruiting workers. The amendment would also give United States
citizens protection against discrimination on the basis of national origin.

Senate conferees strenuously objected to this provision today. Senator Alan K.
Simpson, Republican of Wyoming, chief sponsor of the Senate bill, said the
amendment charts ''an entirely new course in civil rights law,'' and he
declared, ''I don't see why an American employer should not be able to select a
U.S. citizen over a citizen of another country who is here as an alien
legally.''

Senate Rejected Amendment

In 1983, the Senate, by a vote of 59 to 29, rejected an amendment similar to
that in the House bill.

Representative Barney Frank, sponsor of the antidiscrimination proposal, said
today, ''Any substantial weakening of this amendment would, in my judgment,
leave us without a bill that could pass in the House.'' Mr. Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts, noted that the House passed the bill in June by the narrow margin
of 216 to 211.

The Senate passed its version of the legislation by a vote of 76 to 18 in May
1983. The purpose of the conference is to resolve differences between the two
versions of the legislation. A compromise would become law only if approved by
both houses of Congress and signed by the President.

The Administration has opposed Mr. Frank's amendment. Senator Simpson said the
Justice Department had estimated that it would need 1,000 additional employees
to handle discrimination complaints that would be filed with a new
administrative agency to be known as the United States Immigration Board. Mr.
Simpson noted that the maximum penalty proposed for discrimination, a $4,000
fine, was twice the maximum penalty approved for hiring an illegal alien.

Mr. Frank and Mr. Simpson plan to meet Monday in an effort to work out an
agreement, but Mr. Frank said he believed it would be difficult to achieve a
compromise.

Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, said, ''If the Frank
amendment is deleted, it would cause real problems for many of us who voted for
the bill.''

Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, said that when aliens were
allowed to come legally to the United States, ''then they are entitled to the
protections of the Constitution.''

The House and Senate bills would both offer legal status to aliens who illegally
entered the United States before a certain date. However, the conferees have not
yet chosen the date. The House bill is more generous to illegal aliens, offering
legal status to those who arrived before Jan. 1, 1982, and have lived here
continuously since then. The comparable date in the Senate is Jan. 1, 1980.

Status for Cubans and Haitians

Whatever date is ultimately chosen, the conferees agreed to offer permanent
resident status to Cubans and Haitians who entered the United States before Jan.
1, 1982. Many of the Cubans have been living in Florida in an uncertain legal
status since they came here in boats from the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980.
Representative Lawrence J. Smith, Democrat of Florida, said the Cuban ''boat
people'' had ''become part of the fabric of society'' in the Miami area and
deserved special consideration.

Under the bill being drafted by the conference committee, employers would have
to ask all job applicants for identification documents to verify that they were
citizens or aliens authorized to work in the United States.

The conferees dropped a portion of the Senate bill that directed the President,
within three years, to develop ''a secure system to determine employment
eligibility in the United States.'' But the conferees agreed to establish a
maximum penalty of two years in prison and a $5,000 fine for anyone who used
false identification documents to show that he was eligible to work in the
United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              230 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 16, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Crew of Marooned Ship Gets San Francisco Tour

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 26, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 124 words

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 15


The crew of a Taiwanese freighter, marooned at sea aboard their debt-ridden ship
since mid-summer, set foot on land today for the first time in nearly three
months.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service agreed Friday to place the 27 crew
members in the custody of Mayor Dianne Feinstein for the weekend, and the Mayor
promised them dinner in Chinatown and a tour of the city.

The crew of the 700-foot Panamax, loaded with coal, has been kept aboard the
vessel by Federal agents in a legal battle over possession of the ship for
nonpayment of bills.

The Panamax docked at Pier 96 Thursday after being stranded 45 days in
international waters by the owner, the Way Wiser Navigation Company of Taiwan,
to avoid seizure by creditors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              231 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 16, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

RESETTLEMENT OF 455,000 IN U.S. VIEWED AS SUCCESS

BYLINE: By JUDITH CUMMINGS

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 12, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif., Sept. 14


Smiling Vietnamese teen-agers pour out of Valley High School in this prosperous
commercial center among the suburbs near Disneyland. In the adjacent town of
Westminster, dozens of Vietnamese businesses form a bustling, colorful Little
Saigon.

The early experiences of Vietnamese refugees in American resettlement camps,
just after the Communists gained control of the country in 1975, led to concern
over the future of the humanitarian venture. Nearly a decade later, that concern
has largely given way to a sense that the refugees are well on the road to
self-sufficiency.

Most ethnic groups established themselves in the United States through a small
vanguard before the major waves of immigration. Not so the Vietnamese, and this
cultural upheaval was regarded by many social service officials as singular in
the American experience.

About 455,000 refugees have come from Vietnam in the past decade. More are
arriving - 23,000 alone in the year ended Sept. 30, 1983, according to the
publication Refugee Reports.

The United States Government, at the urging of the American religious
establishment and others, has admitted the mixed-race children of American
servicemen and Vietnamese women. The State Department announced an agreement
last week to accept the immigration of thousands of additional Amerasian
children and political prisoners from Vietnam.

Most Are in California

California has by far the largest concentration of Southeast Asian refugees in
the nation, 256,000, according to statistics kept by the Federal Government.
Many of them migrated here after first being settled elsewhere in the United
States, drawn by the state's reputation for a mild climate and liberal welfare
benefits. One of the few reservations expressed by Federal officials and some
social service specialists, in fact, concerns the high rate of welfare
dependency among the refugees in California, the causes of which are still in
dispute.

Texas, with 56,800 Southeast Asian refugees, has the next largest population,
followed by Washington and Illinois. New York is ranked with Pennsylvania at
fifth place, with 24,200 each.

For refugees such as Van Xuan Phan, a former United States Embassy employee in
Saigon who recently left an accounting job at Rockwell International in Santa
Ana, establishing themselves in America has been aided by hard work but also by
the advantages of skills, status and the mutual aid of their social peers. Many
came from families of education and position in Vietnam, an urban elite that
transferred its advantages to a new land.

Waiting for Citizenship

Mr. Van, one of whose first jobs was operating a forklift in the California
farming belt, recounted in an interview how his superior there soon came to him
and said, ''You have a good background; I'll try to get you something better.''
Mr. Van said he believed that ''a good background'' could not be ignored and
that it had worked that way for him. At the age of 44, he is awaiting approval
of his American citizenship.

But for another class of Vietnamese refugee from the poor country villages, the
fishermen and farmers, the resettlement has been rockier. Attempting to resume
old ways in a new land, the rural people have come into conflict with Americans
in California, Texas, Florida and the Northeast over fishing rights, over the
killing of wildlife, and over adjustment to an urbanized society. Despite these
problems, the experience of the majority of Vietnamese across the country has
been one of relative economic success, considering the short time of their
assimilation.

A study conducted last fall by the Office of Refugee Resettlement, in the
Federal Department of Health and Human Services, indicated that Vietnamese
unemployment, while high immediately after arrival, drops dramatically with
longer residency. The study of 1,239 households included all Southeast Asian
refugees, including Cambodians and Laotians. But Federal officials estimated
that Vietnamese make up nearly two-thirds of that group.

Last September, when the national unemployment rate stood at 8 percent, the rate
for all Southeast Asian adults in was 18 percent, according to the study. Among
refugees who arrived in 1983, the rate was 55 percent. But among those who
arrived in 1975, it was only 12 percent.

Fewer Have White-Collar Jobs

With their immigration to the United States, the refugees experienced a
significant shift of employment from sales and clerical white-collar jobs into
skilled blue-collar work.

The Office of Refugee Resettlement found in its employment study that 56.5
percent held white-collar jobs and 21.4 percent blue-collar while in Vietnam.
Comparable figures for those working in the United States were 27.1 percent
white-collar and 49.1 percent blue-collar. Only 1.8 percent found work as
farmers and fishermen here, as against 15.9 percent at home.

The reasons given for this success are varied. Among the social service agencies
leading the task of bringing or resettling the refugees here, some attribute the
comparatively rapid transition primarily to the Vietnamese's own hard work.
Others maintain that the Vietnamese have a skill, surpassing that of other
Southeast Asians, at using the available fruits of the American system.

''There's a particular approach to getting along, to doing business, it doesn't
matter what economic system they're operating in,'' said Richard Walden,
director of Operation California, an organization involved in arranging the
departure of the refugees and particularly the Amerasian children.

''Word gets out,'' he said. ''When people first come here, they'll tend to stick
them all over the country. But they will tend to move to the warmer climates and
states with more public benefits. The mail to Saigon says, 'For Christ's sake,
if you're gonna leave, don't head for Montana.' It'll say, 'Tell a kid, if he's
18, say he's 17; doctor the birth certificate.'

''That game is played really well by Vietnamese,'' Mr. Walden said. ''They 're
much more savvy at it than Cambodians or Laotians.''

Reputation for Hard Work

In New York, Lelieu Browne, director of the New York City Refugee Empolyment
Project, said Vietnamese were the refugees easiest to place in jobs and
attributed it to their reputation for hard work.

''They are willing to work at entry- level jobs, willing to accept low-paying
jobs, and they usually remain at the same job longer than other people do,'' she
said. ''Employers pay special attention to Vietnamese job applicants because of
this trust in them.''

Others, however, while agreeing there is a willingness among Vietnamese to work
hard, say that Vietnamese refugees, because of their culture, are reluctant to
start at the bottom. Some say that that contributes to a high rate of dependency
on welfare in states like California, where such benefits are high.

''In Vietnam and other Southeast Asian countries, once you take a job, that's it
for life,'' said Alicia Cooper, director of the International Rescue Committee
in Santa Ana. ''Although we tell them, in America you start at the bottom and
work up, they don't believe it.'' For that reason, she said, Vietnamese refugees
often attend school as long as possible, while supporting themselves on the
available income benefits.

High Rate of Dependency

Federal officials say they consider California a particular problem.

According to Debra Pontisso, executive assistant to the director of the Federal
Office of Refugee Resettlement, the rate of dependency of Southeast Asian
refugees in California on general welfare benefits during the first three years
of resettlement is 89 percent. The average for all other states is 34 percent,
she said.

Miss Pontisso said that California's welfare benefit payments average 60 percent
higher than other states'.

Tony Smith, head of California's Office of Refugee Services, defended the
program in view of the higher cost of living in this state. He said also that
the dependency rate was misleading on the ground that Federal officials, in
their accounting, failed to record the large number of refugees migrating here
from other states.

In New York State, where more than 24,000 Vietnamese have been resettled, social
service officials praise their rapid assimilation. Housing is sometimes a
problem, they acknowledge, because the refugees tend to have large families. But
even then, acording to Lang Ngan, a case worker for the International Rescue
Committee in Manhattan, housing oficials sometimes make an extra effort to place
Vietnamese in apartments because the refugees are known to pay their rent on
time, she said.

''They are an excellent group, they 're working hard,'' Miss Ngan said. ''They
realize that they are lucky to be here.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Van Xuan Phan and his family

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              232 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             September 26, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

IMMIGRANTS BILL CONFERENCE DEADLOCKS ON ALIEN'S RIGHTS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

SECTION: Section A; Page 20, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 700 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept 25


House and Senate negotiators drafting a comprehensive immigration bill broke up
tonight without reaching agreement on the last outstanding issue, involving the
civil rights of legal aliens.

The conferees, in their eighth day of work on the legislation, voted on two
separate proposals designed to prevent employers from discriminating against
aliens who are legally present in the United States.

By a vote of 13 to 10, the House conferees adopted a proposal offered by
Representative Romano L. Mazzoli, Democrat of Kentucky, the chief sponsor of the
House bill. But the chief negotiator for the Senate, Alan K. Simpson, Republican
of Wyoming, said that Mr. Mazzoli's proposal was unacceptable to the Senate.

Senator Simpson then offered a proposal of his own, which the House conferees
rejected by a vote of 14 to 9. Thus, the conference committee adjourned this
evening in a stalemate, with plans to reconvene on Wednesday.

Hispanic Critics' Position

Critics of the bill, led by Hispanic members of Congress, have asserted that
discrimination by employers was likely to occur because the bill would for the
first time authorize the Government to impose fines and prison terms on
employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens.

Senator Simpson told the conferees that although he had been working on the
problem of illegal aliens for six years, he said he would prefer to have no bill
than one that gave aliens an advantage over citizens in seeking jobs.

Mr. Simpson said the Senate could not accept a provision of the House bill that
would forbid employers to discriminate against legal aliens and give the victims
of such discrimination a right to file complaints with a new agency in the
Justice Department. In June, the House adopted that provision, proposed by
Representative Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat.

The disagreement over this issue has been evident virtually from the beginning
of the conference.

Effort to Break Deadline


Representative Mazzoli offered a compromise proposal today that he said would
guarantee civil rights for legal aliens while putting ''reasonable limits'' on
their ability to file complaints of job discrimination.

Mr. Mazzoli's proposal would prohibit employers from discriminating against
permanent resident aliens, refugees and illegal aliens who obtain legal status
udner the bill. It would not protect foreign students or tourists from other
countries.

Under Mr. Mazzoli's proposal, a citizen could file a complaint charging that he
had been denied a job in favor of an alien, just as a legal alien could file a
complaint charging discrimination in favor of a citizen.

The allegations would be investigated by the special counsel to a new Justice
Department agency, the United States Immigration Board.

Senator Simpson's Plan


Under Mr. Mazzoli's proposal, the Immigration Board could order an employer to
stop discriminatory practices and could award victims of discrimination up to
two years' back pay. Aliens could not file class actions as a group.

Mr. Simpson's proposal, also designed to prevent employment discrimination,
would have reinforced existing laws that forbid discrimination on the basis of
race, national origin and religion.

Senator Simpson, in a somber, rueful tone, asked his colleagues: ''Is there any
historical support or any kind of considered, contemporary record to support
this kind of amendment? This proposal charts for us an unprecedented course in
civil rights law. This is not a civil rights bill.''

Meanwhile, Jane O'Grady, a lobbyist for the American Federation of Labor and
Congress of Industrial Organizations, said that organized labor could not
support the bill as it now stands because a provision that would make it easier
for farmers to bring aliens into the country for agricultural labor did not
provide enough protection for domestic workers.

Representative Sid Morrison, a Republican from Washington State who supported
the compromise on foreign workers last week, said today that he would probably
vote against the bill on final passage because it did not adequately address the
needs of agricultural employers in his state.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              233 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              September 30, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

MAJOR NEWS IN SUMMARY ;
Congress StalledOn Immigration,Other Disputes

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1, Column 1; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 478 words


With most members of Congress eager to adjourn and get back to their
campaigning, possibly irreconcilable differences over the civil rights of aliens
last week threatened to shunt the long-pending immigration bill off onto a
legislative siding.

After several days of surprisingly fast-paced and productive give and take,
House and Senate conferees deadlocked when Alan K. Simpson, prime sponsor of the
Senate bill, balked at language in the House's version that forbids job
discrimination on the basis of alien status. The conferees earlier agreed to
fines and perhaps prison for employers who knowingly hired illegal aliens and to
granting legal status to aliens who could prove that they had lived in this
country continuously since Jan. 1, 1981, and hadn't broken any laws.

But Senator Simpson, a Wyoming Republican, said the job-discrimination provision
was unacceptable, partly because it would create a new bureaucracy and might
give legal aliens greater protections than citizens. Representative Peter W.
Rodino Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and chairman of the Judiciary Committee,
noted that the House had approved the provision 404 to 9, and said eliminating
it ''would be a practical invitation to discriminate.''

In the Senate, controversy over another civil rights matter delayed action on an
emergency spending bill needed to keep the Federal Government in business when
the new fiscal year dawns tomorrow. At issue was a conservative filibuster
against legislation that would overturn the Supreme Court ruling, known as Grove
City, that a law banning sex discrimination at colleges that receive Federal aid
applied only to the specific program receiving the aid. Kept in the Capitol for
a rare weekend session, the Senators yesterday voted, 92 to 4, to limit the
debate.

Supporters of the rights bill want to attach it to the omnibus spending measure,
because they have been unable to bring it to the floor separately. On the House
side, there have been attachments too. When the Representatives took up their
version of the emergency spending bill earlier in the week, they tacked on an
authorization for more than 300 public works projects of the sort that please
constituents. And through fear of being cast on the wrong side of an election
year issue, House Democrats helped House Republicans also append several
elements of President Reagan's anticrime package.

Enter the White House, late Friday. Mr. Reagan, who has said he would veto any
catchall spending bill that he thought was too expensive, offered to forgo the
crime-fighting package so as to get a rider-free measure. After voting to limit
the rights debate, the Senate passed a resolution postponing the spending
deadline for 48 hours. A similar move is under way in the House, to give the
legislators a little more breathing - and calculating and re- calculating -
time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Senator Alan K. Simpson

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              234 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 6, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition

NEGOTIALTORS REPORT A COMPROMISE THAT MAY REVIVES IMMIGRATION BILL

BYLINE: By STEPHEN ENGELBERG

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 625 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5


House and Senate negotiators said today that they had reached a last-minute
compromise that could revive the comprehensive immigration bill.

Supporters of the measure say that if the Senate remains in session next week
for more than a day they may have enough time to complete a four- year effort to
rewrite immigration law. Congress hopes to adjourn for the year by sometime next
week.

But an aide to a Democratic Senator closely involved in the immigration issue
said the bill still faced almost insurmountable obstacles. ''The clock really
works against this,'' he said. ''It would take a miracle to get the thing
through. I think this is more an effort by the House to avoid getting its
fingerprints on killing the bill.''

It was unclear whether the House leadership would allow the bill to proceed
under the expedited rules necessary. Christopher J. Matthews, a spokesman for
House Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said there had been no change in the
Massachusetts Democrat's position that the measure will go forward only if
President Reagan says publicly he will not veto it. Mr. Reagan has made no such
promise.

Brooklyn Representative's Efforts

The compromise was brought about by Representative Charles E. Schumer, a
Democrat of Brooklyn, who had not previously played a major role in the
legislation.

Mr. Schumer said today that he began what he called ''shuttle diplomacy'' on
Monday, six days after a House- Senate conference committee broke up in
disagreement over whether aliens were entitled to new protections from
employment discrimination that were proposed in the bill.

''When I went home on Friday after it had fallen apart, I felt it would be a
shame if this went down after so much work,'' he said.

To achieve the compromise, Mr. Schumer worked with the chief sponsors from the
House and Senate, and with Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of
Massachusetts, who had sponsored a provision on discrimination.

One of the bill's major provisions would make it a crime to knowingly hire
aliens who are in this country illegally.

The House had passed an amendment that would forbid discrimination by employers
against legal aliens. It would give those who say they are victims of such
discrimination the right to file complaints with a new agency of the Justice
Department.

Opponents of the bill, particularly Hispanic groups, have voiced fears that the
sanctions against employers who hire illegal aliens could lead to discrimination
against members of ethnic minorities who are citizens or are in this country
legally.

Senator Alan K. Simpson, a Wyoming Republican who sponsored the measure, had
told the conferees he could not accept the House provision on discrimination
because it gave aliens rights not available to citizens. He had also opposed
creating the new enforcement agency.

Accord on Bias Complaints

Mr. Schumer's compromise would allow aliens to file actions before the special
counsel to the United States Immigration Board, but only if they signed
statement that they intended to become citizens.

Civil penalties of up to $1,000 per alien would be levied for each initial
instance of discrimination, and repeat violators could be assessed fines up to
$2,000 per alien.

Mr. Schumer also secured an agreement that would limit to $1 billion a year the
amount that states could receive as reimbursement for services to aliens granted
legal status under the bill.

The conference plans to reconvene Tuesday, and Representative Romano L. Mazzoli,
Democrat of Kentucky, who sponsored the House bill, said he and Senator Simpson
have assurances of sufficient votes to win approval by the conferees, clearing
the way to proceed on final Congressional action.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              235 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 9, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

GOOD IMMIGRANT BILL

BYLINE: By Lawrence H. Fuchs ;
Lawrence H. Fuchs, professor of American civilization and politics at Brandeis
University, was executive director of the Select Commission on Immigration and
Refugee Policy.

SECTION: Section A; Page 33, Column 2; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 684 words

DATELINE: WALTHAM, MASS.


In a minor miracle, a conference committee has reached a tentative compromise on
the Senate and House versions of the Simpson-Mazzoli immigration bill. Months of
bitter debate have produced a sound bill that deserves final approval. Even so,
we are likely to hear again that the measure is racist and anti-family, that its
legalization provision will open the immigration floodgates, that its employer-
sanction measure will be ineffective and discriminatory.

The bill is not racist. The employer- sanction provision, which will penalize
employers who knowingly hire illegal aliens, is designed also to protect
everyone eligible to work - brown and black Americans and resident aliens alike.
There was a concern that employers would use their fear of sanctions as a cover
for discrimination against lawfully resident aliens. In fact, the bill provides
for new mechanisms - including a new special counsel to investigate complaints -
that will help protect aliens against such discrimination.

The bill is not anti-family. It emphasizes family reunification exactly as does
present law. The crucial provision legalizing the status of undocumented aliens
who have lived in America before 1981 will strengthen family reunification by
allowing newly legalized aliens married to resident aliens to emerge from the
shadows under the full protection of the law.

Nor will this provision open the floodgates to immigration. Even the most
dramatic forecasts do not predict that more than two million will apply for
legalization. Overall, the Simpson-Mazzoli bill will affect only marginally the
total number of immigrants lawfully admitted in the years ahead, while bringing
an exploitable underclass into more open participation in American life and also
deterring future illegal immigration in a more effective way than the dangerous
cops-and-robbers game

that we call border enforcement.  How will Simpson-Mazzoli start us toward
effective enforcement? Short term, the flow of illegal aliens will not be cut
drastically. Employers will need time to move to a workforce that is
substantially lawful. And it will take seven to 10 years to develop a
universally secure system to validate those who can work and who can't. But by
that time, the incentive to enter the country illegally will have been removed.
The main reason for starting now is to prevent the growth of a larger underclass
and to protect us from the terrible divisiveness that would result from
large-scale illegal migration in the future.  Simpson-Mazzoli will not work
miracles. But it does do several important things. At one point, for example,
efforts were made by restrictionist elements in Congress to make refugees (for
example, those in Southeast Asia) compete with immigrants under an absolute
ceiling. By repudiating these efforts, the bill keeps alive a humanitarian
policy of accepting people who come here not with the primary purpose of seeking
jobs but to escape persecution. It also makes more expeditious our method of
deciding who is entitled to asylum (persons already in this country who fear
persecution if deported). To that end, it provides an improved judicial system
that will reduce delays and provide for greater uniformity in asylum cases. And
it will reduce the underclass of illegal aliens in our midst through
legalization while deterring the flow of illegal aliens through what eventually
will become an effective mechanism of providing employment only to those who are
lawfully permitted to work.  For various reasons, the bill is an improvement
over earlier versions. It greatly strengthens the Senate's provisions against
discrimination; it eliminates an ill-conceived House effort to allow up to a
half million foreign workers to enter this country temporarily each year; it
eliminates the Senate's absolute cap on the number of immigrants who can be
reunited with their families; its legalization provisions cover more people than
authorized by the Senate but are less costly than provisions proposed by the
House. Simpson-Mazzoli deserves to triumph over wildly inaccurate rhetoric. B

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: OP-ED

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              236 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 19, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

U.S.-HANOI TALKS ON AMERASIANS

SECTION: Section A; Page 4, Column 3; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 291 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 18


A White House aide met this week with Vietnam's Foreign Minister to discuss
details on how to carry out the Administration's offer to accept tens of
thousands of Vietnamese immigrants, State Department officials said today.

The United States has said that it is prepared to take in all of the Asian-
American children in Vietnam and 10,000 of the current and former prisoners from
its re-education camps.

The meeting between Nguyen Co Thach, the Foreign Minister, and Richard
Childress, an Indochina specialist on the National Security Council staff, was
said to have taken place Tuesday in New York, where Mr. Thach is attending the
United Nations General Assembly session.

Details of the session were sketchy, but a State Department official said that
the meeting ''continued the progress'' made when a senior State Department
refugee official, Robert L. Funseth, met with the Vietnamese in Geneva earlier
in the month.

Last month, Secretary of State George P. Shultz announced that the United States
was ready to accept all the so-called Amerasian children in Vietnam. Most of the
children, whose number has been estimated at from 8,000 to 15,000, were fathered
by American servicemen in the Vietnam War. Mr. Shultz also said that the United
States was prepared to accept 10,000 of the re-education camp prisoners over
several years.

The Vietnamese have said that they are prepared to let all the children leave,
and want the United States to agree to accept all the re-education camp inmates.
The United States has wanted the children and the inmates to be admitted through
procedures involving the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, but the
Vietnamese have preferred to deal directly with the United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              237 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 20, 1984, Saturday, Late City Final Edition
                              Correction Appended

COAST CASE CREATES ANXIETY OVER SPIES AMONG REFUGEES

BYLINE: By Judith Cummings

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 2453 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 19


An espionage indictment here is creating questions about whether the Soviet
Union has taken advantage of the American immigration system to filter spies
into this country.

According to the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the indicted Russian
immigrants, Nikolay and Svetlana Malutina Ogorodnikov, entered the United States
in 1973 as Jewish refugees.

The couple were arrested here by the Federal Bureau of Investigation on Oct. 2
on charges that they conspired to pay Richard W. Miller, an F.B.I. agent,
$65,000 for secret documents on American counterespionage activities.

'Detailed Picture' Seen

The indictment says Mr. Miller turned over one 25-page document to the
Ogorodnikovs, which they passed on to the Soviet authorities. The F.B.I. said
the document could give the K.G.B., the Soviet intelligence agency, ''a detailed
picture of F.B.I. and U.S. intelligence activities, techniques and
requirements.''

As a result of the Ogorodnikov case, the F.B.I. is investigating the Los Angeles
office, officials said this week.

Neither the indictment nor the Federal investigators have made clear whether the
two are suspected of being agents for the K.G.B. or of being just immigrants who
stumbled into a profitable opportunity. Further, if they are suspected of being
Soviet agents all along, it is not clear why the United States failed to block
their entry. It is also not clear that either Ogorodnikov is Jewish.

Doubts on U.S. Scrutiny

The circumstances of the couple's entry raise questions how well American
security agencies are able to scrutinize tens of thousands of Soviet emigrants,
mostly Jews and Armenians, who have come to the United States since the late
1960's.

The Immigration Service, which is responsible for confirming applicants'
assertions of persecution at home and, in this case, that they are Jewish, said
the couple were resettled in the United States with the aid of agencies that
help Soviet Jews. The agencies, the Jewish Family Service of Los Angeles and
Hias Jewish migration agency in New York, would not comment on the case, saying
their files were confidential.

Apart from the espionage charge, the Russian couple have been involved in legal
disputes since coming to this country. They initiated several personal injury
lawsuits and collected $23,000. They were also involved in a dispute and
countersuit with another Russian family over a plan to transfer funds inside the
Soviet Union in return for payment here.

Not Guilty Plea AwaitedThe Ogorodnikovs and Mr. Miller were charged in a Federal
grand jury indictment last week with conspiracy to violate American espionage
laws, an offense that carries a possible life sentence. They are expeced to
plead not guilty at their arraignment.

Robert C. Bonner, the United States Attorney in Los Angeles, acknowledged that
the grand jury indictment did not charge that the Ogorodnikovs were K.G.B.
agents. ''You'll have to draw your own conclusion,'' Mr. Bonner said.

Officials of the F.B.I. have said they believe the Ogorodnikovs were agents of
the K.G.B. They said Mrs. Ogorodnikov, who is 34 years old, apparently operated
as a double agent, giving information to the bureau while working to get
counterespionage secrets from Mr. Miller, with whom officials believe she had a
sexual relationship.

According to the indictment, Mrs. Ogorodnikov went shopping with Mr. Miller last
month and bought him a $675 trench coat for a meeting planned with Soviet
operatives in Europe.

The Ogorodnikovs are in jail and have not been available for an interview. But
people who knew them in Los Angeles portray them as artless opportunists, little
schooled but increasingly adept at manipulating the system, animated by the
manuevering room afforded by an open society.

An examination of public records does little to contradict this.

Routine Procedure Cited

Vern Jervis, a spokesman for the Immigration Service in Washington, said the
Ogorodnikovs were processed under a routine procedure in which ''their names are
sent past American security agencies to see if there is any information on them
that should bar their coming to the U.S.''

No bar was found. The couple arrived in New York on Sept. 5, 1973, Mr. Jervis
said. They were approved for entry to the United States and classified as Soviet
Jews ''probably because one was Jewish,'' he said, adding that he had little
detailed information.

Nothing specifies that either Ogorodnikov is Jewish; the F.B.I. said only that
Mr. Ogorodnikov also went by the name Nikolay Wolfson. Mrs. Ogorodnikov
frequented a Russian Orthodox church in Los Angeles and their 13- year-old son,
Matthew, at one time attended the church school.

They Got Permit in Rome

Mr. Jervis said the Ogorodnikovs were granted conditional entrance status at the
United States Consulate in Rome on July 30, 1973. They were later changed to a
special parole status under authority of the United States Attorney General, a
procedure he said was commonly used in the 1970's to permit the immigration of
the thousands of Soviet Jews in excess of immigration limits.

Mr. Jervis said the Ogorodnikovs were sponsored by the Jewish Family Service of
Los Angeles. They obtained permanent resident status in June 1977.

He said the Immigration Service routinely sent the names of prospective Soviet
immigrants ''to the various security agencies,'' and they then notified the
Immigration Service ''whether they have any negative information.''

Mr. Jervis said this was not a foolproof. ''How are you going to make a security
check on somebody in Russia?'' he asked. ''If you get a negative, it doesn't
mean all that much. It just means we don't have any information.''

Israeli Papers Are Used

According to the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, 264,342 people with
Israeli immigration papers were allowed to leave the Soviet Union from 1968 to
last month. Of that, 163,153 were reported to have settled in Israel, and most
of the rest went to the United States. A smaller number of ethnic Germans and
Armenians were also allowed to leave the Soviet Union in the period, and
thousands of Armenians have ended up here.

Practically nobody else has been allowed to leave, with the exception of some
political figures such as the novelist Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn. And in the
last few years the Soviet authorities have cut off the flow again.

Arnold Saltzman, executive director of the Jewish Family Service of Los Angeles,
said his agency played no role in security screening.

Carl Zuckerman, the executive vice president of the Hias agency in New York,
said the same. This society, through an office in Rome, assists Soviet Jews in
preparing United States applications for refugee status, but Mr. Zuckerman said
he could not confirm whether the Ogorodnikovs had been their clients.

She Is Noted by F.B.I.

Justice Department documents indicate that the Ogorodikovs came to F.B.I.
attention as early as February 1980. At that time, according to a bureau
affidavit, Mrs. Ogorodnikov was identified to an agent of the bureau by ''a
Soviet citizen seeking political asylum'' as one of two women who had urged her
to return to the Soviet Union and who had introduced her to two people said to
be from the Soviet Consulate in San Francisco. The bureau did not identify the
other woman.

In Washington, bureau officials said Mr. Miller met the Ogorodnikovs through his
work. He had been assigned to participate in the bureau's routine questioning of
Soviet emigres. Later, when Mrs. Ogorodnikov came under Federal surveillance
because of her dealing with the Soviet Consulate, she was seen meeting Mr.
Miller, a bureau official in Washington said. These meetings aroused suspicion
because Mr. Miller had no justifiable reason for further unauthorized contact
with her. He was then put under surveillance.

Bureau officials also said they found spy paraphernalia in the Ogorodnikovs'
apartment here, including code books, microfilm and writing implements.

The Ogorodnikovs purportedly had frequent contact with consular officials,
including conversations with Alexandr Grishin, a Soviet vice consul, who was
named by the grand jury as an unindicted co-conspirator.

The couple have been involved in a number of legal matters since they came to
the United States.

Suits Over Auto Injury

Barry J. Krasner, a Los Angeles lawyer, successfully represented the
Ogorodnikovs in two personal injury civil suits in 1978. He said in an interview
these netted the couple $22,750 in out-of- court settlements, $22,500 of it from
a rear-end automobile crash case of a type that Mr. Krasner said was usually
easier for a defendant's insurance company to settle than to pursue. In the
court records, the defendant, a Los Angeles woman, said the Ogorodnikovs had
backed into her car.

Mr. Krasner said a woman known to him as Nina Thomas, who was a friend of the
Ogorodnikovs and was in their car, also received $7,000 to $8,000 in the
out-of-court settlement.

''She has the brains,'' Mr. Krasner said. ''She's an interpreter. She came back
and forth between Russia and the U.S. with ease and frequency.''

Mr. Krasner said he was frustrated and angry over his efforts in recent days to
tell the F.B.I. what he knows about the Ogorodnikovs. He said he had called the
office of P. Bryce Christensen, the head of the counterespionage unit of the
bureau's Los Angeles office, on Oct. 4 and 5 and had been told Mr. Christensen
was ''too busy.''

''I'm a busy man myself, I have a law practice to pursue,'' Mr. Krasner said.
''I just gave up.''

She Worked in Tie Factory

Mr. Krasner said that Mr. Ogorodnikov had said he had been a cab driver in Kiev
before coming to the United States. Although Mrs. Ogorodnikov was described by
the bureau as ''a nurse,'' Mr. Krasner said that the only employment he was
aware of was for a men's tie manufacturer. That company, Hollywood Ties, listed
in court records, is apparently now defunct.

''She didn't have the brains to be a nurse,'' he said. ''They don't have the
brains to be what they're portrayed to be by the F.B.I. After having represented
them for several years, they don't have the mental capacity to be K.G.B. agents,
although they may know people who are.''

In 1978, Mrs. Ogorodnikov filed a civil suit against Dr. Jung Jo Kim, charging
dental malpractice. That case was also settled out of court and she was awarded
$250, Mr. Krasner said. ''People learn fast when there's money involved,'' Mr.
Krasner said.

In an earlier case, in 1976, Mr. Ogorodnikov sued two Los Angeles men seeking
damages for an injury he claimed from a collision on a freeway ramp. The
defendants demanded a jury trial and the suit was dismissed after Mr.
Ogorodnikov failed to submit certain papers. Mr. Ogorodnikov's lawyer in that
case, Lewis Graham, did not return telephone calls over three days.

Fight With Another Family

A year later, in 1977, the Ogorodnikovs, again represented by Mr. Graham,
initiated a damage suit against another Soviet immigrant family from their
neighborhood in West Hollywood. The defendant, Mikhail Zlobinsky, countersued,
giving rise to a bizarre set of cross-charges.

The Ogorodnikovs accused Mikhail and Sonya Zlobinsky of going to their apartment
in January 1977 and beating Mrs. Ogorodnikov and threatening family members here
and in the Soviet Union.

The Zlobinskys then sued the Ogorodnikovs for breach of contract and fraud. The
charge said that the Zlobinskys had had 15,000 rubles in the Soviet Union that
they had not been permitted to take out; that the Ogorodnikovs had said that
they had associates in the Soviet Union and that if the Zlobinskys gave the
15,000 rubles to the associates, the Ogorodnikovs would give the Zlobinskys
$5,000 in Los Angeles. The Zlobinskys charged that the Ogorodnikovs had the
rubles picked up but had not paid the Zlobinskys $5,000. The Ogorodnikovs denied
this, but offered to drop their charge of a beating.

Demand for Their Answers

The outcome was unclear. The Zlobinskys in late 1977 filed a demand with the
California Superior Court in Los Angeles that the Ogorodnikovs answer a number
of questions, including whether a Soviet trip had been made by Nina Thomas in
1977 and whether they had had any contacts ''with anyone in a consulate of the
Soviet Union during the past 24 months.''

Until his arrest, Mr. Ogorodnikov worked for eight years at the Hoffman Brothers
Meat Packing Company as a packer. Julius Hoffman, the company's owner, said he
had been a good worker and presented no problems.

Fellow workers at the plant in the industrial town of Vernon southeast of Los
Angeles said Mr. Ogorodnikov was very friendly, ''happy all the time,'' sang
Russian songs while he worked and seemed so happy at his work that he sometimes
had to be instructed to go home at the end of his shift.

The only time Mr. Ogorodnikov seemed troubled, according to Armando Haros, a
fellow worker, came last spring when he said Mr. Ogorodnikov told him he was
getting a divorce. He said Mr. Ogorodnikov had told him ''that his wife liked to
drink.'' ''He was worried about his kid,'' Mr. Haros said.

He Praised Life in Russia

Several workers said Mr. Ogorodnikov talked often about how good things were in
Russia and that he would rather be there, but they said they took it in the
spirit of good-natured grousing, the way they themselves spoke of Mexico.

They said that he followed news events closely and admonished them to, and that
he would become serious in warning of the danger of a clash between the United
States and the Soviet Union.

''He was looking for peace,'' said Jerry Herrejon, a Hoffman Brothers worker.
''He was against the United States because of what the Reagan Administration is
doing right now. He said Russia was looking for peace and the United States
didn't want it.''

Mr. Haros said: ''He was no spy, he was too dumb. He was a dupe, or stooge or
something.''

Separation in 1982 Reported

According to Mrs. Ogorodnikov, the couple were married in 1971 in Moscow.
According to county records, they separated in September 1982. Mrs. Ogorodnikov
received welfare benefits and food stamps worth $314 a month in 1983 and 1984.
These payments are now under investigation by the district attorney at the
request of the Los Angeles county supervisors.

The county filed suit last March against Mr. Ogorodnikov to attach $234.60 a
month of his wages for child support.

Two months ago, the district attorney's office said, the wage attachment and
welfare payments were stopped at the request of Mrs. Ogorodnikov, who notified
officials that she and her husband had reconciled and were living together
again.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 23, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

CORRECTION:
EDITORS' NOTE

Under this heading, The Times amplifies articles or rectifies what the editors
consider significant lapses of fairness, balance or perspective.

A dispatch from Los Angeles on Oct. 20 described the case of Nikolay and
Svetlana Ogorodnikov, immigrants from the Soviet Union who have been indicted
for espionage.

In discussing the couple's background, the article quoted a lawyer, Barry J.
Krasner, as saying that he had represented the Ogorodnikovs in an accident case
and that they were friends of an interpreter, Nina Thomas, whom he also
represented in the case.

The juxtaposition of the information in the article may have implied to some
that Miss Thomas was involved in espionage. She was not accused of any illegal
activity, and there was no evidence of any connection with spying.


GRAPHIC: Photo of Nikolay and Svetlana Ogorodnikov

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              238 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 21, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

1980 CUBAN REFUGEES GAIN ON CITIZENSHIP CLAIM

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 23, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 450 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 20


More than 125,000 Cubans from the 1980 refugee influx may become permanent
United States residents under a 1966 law, the Justice Department has decided.
But the action will not help thousands of Haitian refugees in the same
situation.

Representatives of the Haitians complained of broken promises.

The Immigration and Naturalization Service ''in the near future'' will start
processing thousands of applications from Cubans who arrived in the 1980 in
boats from Cuba, according to Verne Jervis, an immigration service spokesman in
Washington.

They May Submit Applications

Such Cubans who have lived in the United States for a year and want to become
permanent residents, the first step toward citizenship, will be allowed to
submit applications under the Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, Mr. Jervis said.

The Justice Department decision was made public in a document filed this week in
Federal District Court in Miami in response to a lawsuit filed in April by three
Cubans. They said the Government discriminated against refugees who arrived in
boats from April to October 1980 because it refused to consider their requests
for residency.

The Justice Department decision bowed to the suit's assertion and said these
Cubans should not have been excluded from the benefits of the 1966 law. Until
now, these refugees had been classified by the immigration service as
''Cuban-Haitian entrants,'' a temporary status.

Since the 1966 law applies only to Cubans, the decision will have no effect on
thousands of Haitian refugees who have been in the same legal position as their
Cuban counterparts, Mr. Jervis said.

'Congress Has to Act,' He Says

''Congress has to act in order for the Haitians to be accommodated,'' he said.

Lawyers representing Haitian immigrants denounced the decision.

''It would be absolutely outrageous if they went ahead and only granted
residency to the Cubans and left the Haitians in outer space,'' said Steve
Forrester, a lawyer for the Haitian Refugee Center. ''It's violative of a lot of
promises that have been made by this Administration and past administrations
that there would be equal treatment of the Cubans and the Haitians. It looks
like a political move.''

Mr. Jervis, however, dismissed the charge, saying that it was ''not even a valid
question.''

He said the immigration service had already planned to process the boatlift
Cubans' applications for residency under the 1966 law if the recent immigration
reform bill failed to pass in Congress.

The bill, which died when Congress adjourned, would have legalized the
immigration status of more than 150,000 Cuban and Haitian refugees but would
have repealed the 1966 law.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              239 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 22, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

FLORIDA JOURNAL;
OF GROWTH, GRAPEFRUIT AND DYING

BYLINE: By JON NORDHEIMER

SECTION: Section A; Page 14, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 837 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 21


It's still difficult for people to think of Florida as a megastate. Tourism, its
primary, $20 billion-a-year industry, always seemed ephemeral to people
transplanted from regions where the steel industry, or the automobile industry,
or waving fields of grain seemed more rooted in permanence than a packaged tour
to Disney World or rabbit warrens of time-sharing condominiums.

For years retired people spent their last years here but were reluctant to
commit themselves to the place. Charity donations were made to the hospital or
college ''back home.'' In an ultimate test of loyalty, the deceased were shipped
north for burial.

All that is changing now under the weight of the unbroken migration of people
into Florida. Significantly, increasing numbers of young people are joining the
flood into the state and a rising birth rate is challenging immigration in some
areas as the prime source of new citizens.

Ahead of schedule last week, Florida quietly pushed aside Ohio to become the
nation's sixth largest state. Since the 1980 census was taken Florida has added
1.1 million residents. The population is now just under 11 million.

Planners say Florida will overtake Illinois, Pennsylvania and Texas by 1988 to
trail only California and New York in population, an awesome leapfrogging that
continues to accentuate the problems of unmanaged growth and diminishing
resources.

''Florida's major asset is also Florida's major problem,'' said Jon Mills, a
legislative leader. ''The question is how to preserve an asset that is a magnet
for the forces of its own destruction?''

The same question has been kicking around for a half-century. In that time, the
90-mile corridor that binds together Miami and Palm Beach on the lower east
coast has added more than three million people.

One person determined to protect the state's treasures is Marjory Stoneman
Douglas, author of the 1947 book ''Everglades: River of Grass,'' a classic study
of how development threatened the Everglades. The 94-year-old environmentalist
was honored Thursday in Miami, where a park was named after her and Marjory
Stoneham Douglas Day was proclaimed in Dade County.



The citrus canker scare is fading daily as more and more groves are certified
free of the blight and permitted to ship fresh oranges and grapefruit to
northern markets. Surprisingly, despite the ban that for a while threatened to
shut down the industry, shipment of fruit out of the state is running ahead of
the same period last year.

The reason is that the crop is ripening about 10 days to two weeks ahead of
schedule and more fruit, particularly grapefruit, is ready for picking in late
October than in 1983. Some shoppers in the Northeast may have deduced,
incorrectly as it turns out, that the canker problem is responsible for higher
prices on oranges on their grocers' shelves.

According to industry experts, the prices are higher but the canker scare is not
the cause.

The price of fresh oranges is always higher this early in the season and the
first shipments of ripe fruit fetch premium bids, they explain. But the
underlying reason fresh citrus will be dearer this year is the destruction of so
many trees in the freeze last Christmas, not only in Florida but also in the Rio
Grande Valley of Texas.

Since orange juice processing contracts tie up future crops, additional fruit
cannot be diverted from the processing plants to take advantage of the higher
prices now demanded for fresh fruit and the cost to the consumer is likely to
remain high, they predict.



A man is shot in the abdomen and his aorta is severed, but paramedics stabilize
him and get him to a Miami hospital where the emergency room staff gives him
blood transfusions and prepares him for surgery.

A surgeon on call is summoned to the hospital but once there is told that the
gunshot victim, a Miami sanitation worker, has a different medical insurance
plan than the one he, the physician, is associated with.

What followed is a matter of dispute.

According to an emergency room physician, the surgeon refused to operate and
told the physician to summon a surgeon who handled patients with the victim's
type of insurance plan.

Meanwhile, the surgeon goes to the hospital coffee shop because, as he later
says, he was told the victim was stable and another surgeon would be coming in
to treat him. The staff does call another surgeon at home but before he can
reach the hospital the victim's condition deteriorates.

''I don't want to die,'' the victim says before losing consciousness.

The emergency room physician goes to the cafeteria twice and implores the first
surgeon to begin surgery, he later says, to be turned down. The surgeon later
insists he was told he was not needed.

The second surgeon finally arrives, about one and a half hours after the victim
was admitted, and tries to save the man's life. The victim dies on the operating
table.

Last week the hospital suspended the first surgeon's privileges pending a review
of the case.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              240 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               October 26, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

Federal Agents Arrest Ex-Grenada Official

SECTION: Section A; Page 6, Column 2; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 210 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 25


Grenada's former delegate to the Organization of American States was arrested
here by the Federal immigration police after giving a speech critical of United
States policy toward that Caribbean nation.

Dessima Williams, who represented the Government of Prime Minister Maurice
Bishop at the O.A.S. between 1979 and 1983, was forced into a car by three armed
men identifying themselves as Federal agents, according to witnesses.

A spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service confirmed the arrest.
Gregory Leo, the spokesman, said Miss Williams was charged with being in the
United States without legal status.

Mr. Leo called the arrest ''routine,'' and said that the agency had been seeking
Miss Williams for some time. ''We have known that she was out of status but we
were unable to locate her,'' he said.

''We came across the flyer that gave the location of her speech, and so the
timing is immaterial, just a coincidence,'' he said.

Miss Williams had just addressed the closing session of a conference at Howard
University on Latin America and the Caribbean.

Catherine Sunshine, director of Epica, an institute that organized the
conference, said Miss Williams had spoken about deteriorating economic
conditions in Grenada.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              241 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              October 31, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. TO GIVE VISA TO FO, CONTROVERSIAL WRITER

BYLINE: By MEL GUSSOW

SECTION: Section C; Page 19, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 753 words


After twice barring him from the United States in the last four years, the State
Department yesterday agreed to give a visa to Dario Fo, the controversial
Italian dramatist whose play ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist'' opens on
Broadway on Nov. 15. A senior State Department official confirmed the
department's decision and said a public announcement would be made this morning.

In addition, the producers of ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist'' have received
a work permit for Mr. Fo from the Immigration and Naturalization Service. The
permit referred to Mr. Fo as ''an alien of distinguished merit and ability.''

The first two visa applications by Mr. Fo - one of Italy's leading playwrights,
an actor in his own work and a political gadfly - were rejected by the State
Department, apparently because of Mr. Fo's leftist political beliefs.



Press Briefing Scheduled

The senior State Department official, who spoke only on the condition he not be
identified, said yesterday he could not explain why Mr. Fo had been admitted
this time. He said the question may be answered at a State Department press
briefing at noon today.

''We're delighted,'' said Alexander H. Cohen, a co-producer of ''Accidental
Death of an Anarchist.'' ''We look forward to welcoming Mr. Fo and we're certain
he'll be here by Friday for the first preview.''

Mr. Fo had been invited to come to New York to attend rehearsals of ''Accidental
Death of an Anarchist.'' Mr. Cohen, who is producing the play with Hildy Parks,
wanted the author to help ''tune'' the play ''to the sensibility and the 'ear'
of the New York audience.''

Mr. Cohen and Steven Shapiro, an attorney representing the American Civil
Liberties Union, sent letters seeking a visa for Mr. Fo to Secretary of State
George Schultz and Attorney General William French Smith. Organizations
including the Dramatists Guild, the New York Bar Association and the Association
of Theatrical Managers and Press Agents sent petitions supporting Mr. Fo to the
State Department.



Soccorso Rosso

Mr. Fo's two previous requests for visas were turned down on the basis of a
section of the Immigration and Nationality Act that excludes aliens who are
members of or who support anarchist, communist or terrorist organizations. The
visa was apparently denied because of the playwright's activity in Soccorso
Rosso, a leftist Italian organization.

In 1980 Mr. Fo and his wife, Franca Rame, were scheduled to appear at Town Hall
in works written by the two of them, as part of a festival of Italian theater.
When Mr. Fo and Miss Rame were unable to come, a number of American writers and
directors staged ''An Evening Without Dario Fo.'' Last year, Joseph Papp asked
the couple to perform at the New York Shakespeare Festival, and again entry was
denied. Both rejections were followed by protests from the New York theater
community.

Last month Mr. Fo and Miss Rame were invited to be in Washington at a conference
entitled Free Trade in Ideas. They were to be on a panel along with Regis
Debray, Dennis Brutus and others. Because they were denied entry, they - along
with novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez - addressed the group on closed circuit
television from Toronto.

Although the playwright has not been in the United states, his plays are
performed throughout the country - in regional theaters from the Yale Repertory
Company in New Haven to the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, and Off Broadway,
where ''We Won't Pay, We Won't Pay'' had a long run in 1980. ''Accidental
Death'' will mark Mr. Fo's Broadway debut.



A Hit in London

The play arrives in New York 14 years after it was first produced in Italy, and
four years after it became a London hit. It is a savage farce based on the case
of an Italian railway worker who was arrested and was pushed - or fell - from a
window of a police station. Last year the comedy was presented at the Arena
Stage in Washington, with an adaptation by Richard Nelson and direction by
Douglas C. Wager. Both Mr. Nelson and Mr. Wager will repeat their assignments in
New York, where the new cast is headed by Jonathan Pryce (as a madman who
impersonates an officer), Bill Irwin and Patti LuPone.

Commenting on the play's success in Italy, Mr. Fo wrote that it produced ''a
violent reaction in the centers of power.'' He added, ''We were subjected to
provocation and persecution of all kinds, sometimes more grotesque and comical
in their repressive stupidity than the very farce which we were performing.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Dario Fo

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              242 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 10, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

COLLAPSE OF DEAK & COMPANY

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

SECTION: Section D; Page 1, Column 4; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1252 words


In the world of foreign exchange and precious metals, no name glitters like
Deak-Perera.

Founded in 1939 by a Hungarian immigrant, Nicholas L. Deak, the company grew
into prominence by making markets in currencies no one else would touch and in
later years, by aggressively promoting private investment in gold. Today, it is
the largest nonbank foreign exchange and precious metals operation in the United
States.

Two much-less-prominent subsidiaries of Deak & Company, however, helped blacken
the family's name and sour its fortunes. The two units, operating somewhat like
banks, drew allegations from a Federal commission on organized crime that they
had been used to launder tens of millions of dollars in drug money. It was these
units and these allegations that drove parts of the Deak empire into bankruptcy
court last Thursday, the company acknowledges. The Deaks have denied the
allegations.

The units that sought court protection from creditors under Chapter 11 are the
holding company, Deak & Company, and two subsidiaries, Deak-Perera Wall Street,
and the Deak-Perera International Banking Corporation. Deak-Perera U.S., the
family's best-known holding, did not file for Chapter 11 and remains solvent.

At the heart of the collapse, according to the Deak family, are allegations in a
report by the President's Commission on Organized Crime about the laundering of
money, so that drug traffikers could secretly repatriate profits to Latin
America.

''The damage we have suffered from maliciousness in that report to a very great
extent caused the downfall of a very fine firm and the damage to a very fine man
- my dad,'' said Nicholas Deak's son, R. Leslie Deak, executive vice president
of the holding company, Deak & Company, and president of Deak-Perera U.S.

Blame Placed on Rivals

In an interview Friday night in the company's deserted offices on lower
Broadway, Mr. Deak said that rivals circulated the commission's report among
depositors, who withdrew their money and created a liquidity crunch. He would
not identify who those rivals are. Nicholas Deak, chairman of the company, did
not return telephone calls to his office. Officials in other companies in the
business either said they were unfamiliar with the empire's problems or declined
to comment.

But the Deak problem is not just a liquidity crisis brought on by anxious
depositors. Documents in bankruptcy court show the holding company's assets at
$62.2 million and liabilities at $95 million. Deposits, which bore high interest
rates, were invested in the precious metals and foreign exchange subsidiaries,
which did not yield a high return, Mr. Deak said.

''The way we funded that hole was that we increased our borrowings,'' he said.

Operations Similar to Banks

Deak Perera Wall Street and the Deak-Perera International Banking Corporation
are not foreign exchange units but rather operated somewhat like banks. They
accepted deposits from foreigners, paid interest and transferred funds elsewhere
in the world. The former catered mostly to companies, the latter to individuals.
They did not make loans, and they accepted money only from foreigners, so they
were not chartered as banks. In effect they borrowed from foreigners to finance
other subsidiaries in Deak & Company.

Documents filed in the bankruptcy proceedings show that most of the large
depositors were South Americans, especially Argentinians. Since the two
subsidiaries had no offices abroad, a foreigner wishing to open an account
normally would do so by mail, Mr. Deak said, adding that depositors were obliged
to fill out account cards to establish their identity.

Unidentified Depositors

The President's Commission on Organized Crime, in its October report, charged
that at least once the company let a client open an account under a name that
employees knew was false. ''Obviously, in any organization there are clerical
errors on occasion, but the corporate policy was clearly that identifiction was
required,'' Mr. Deak said.

''I have no more idea who my depositors are than John Reed knows who all
Citibank's depositors are,'' he added, referring to Citicorp's chairman. ''You
try to exercise due diligence and not to let yourself be used by scoundrels and
criminals.''

Commission's Report

Nevertheless, the report of the President's Commission, and testimony before it,
offer some glimpses into a peculiar world of high finance.


- From 1969 to 1975, Deak & Company was the conduit used by the Lockheed
Corporation to transfer money intended by Lockheed to bribe Japanese officials.
That bribery scandal resulted a year ago in the criminal conviction of a former
Prime Minister, Kakuei Tanaka. In 15 deliveries, Deak & Company moved $8.3
million to Hong Kong, where a Spanish-born priest representing Lockheed took the
cash and carried it to Japan in a flight bag or in cardboard boxes labeled
''oranges.'' ''Lockheed Corporation came in and asked us to make a payment,''
Leslie Deak explained. ''We made a payment. The fact that the money was used
later for bribes is Lockheed's shame, not ours.''


- In 1978 Deak & Company and one of its vice presidents were convicted on
criminal charges of willfully failing to file reports on about $11 million
deposited by two Philippine businessmen. The company was fined a total of
$60,000. Leslie Deak concedes that the company had compliance problems then, but
says it has spent millions of dollars in the last six years to eradicate the
problems.


- The most serious charges involve the ''laundering'' of tens of millions of
dollars garnered by cocaine traffikers. David Williams, an investigator for the
commission, said in hearings in March that the ''Grandma Mafia'' - a well-known
cocaine ring that involved many middle-aged or elderly women - deposited $7.6
million. The money was later transferred to Miami, Panama and Colombia, and Mr.
Williams quoted a leader of the ring as doubting that her contact in the company
could have been so naive as not to have known the origin or the money.

Another case involved $97 million, largely cocaine profits, deposited in
Deak-Perera accounts between November 1980 and March 1982. Millions of dollars
often was brought to the company's downtown office, in cash packed in cardboard
boxes, according to the commission.

Lack of Transaction Reports

The commission report also says that an Internal Revenue Service investigation
showed that Deak-Perera failed to file 1,266 transaction reports that are
required for deposits of $10,000 or more. In addition, the report said, the
Customs Service found that Deak-Perera had failed to file 556 reports relating
to $47.5 million in cash that it had physically transported into or out of the
country.

Because of such failures to make proper reports, the Treasury Department
informed Deak & Company that it might levy a $572,000 civil penalty against the
company - five times the total that has ever been assessed under the Bank
Secrecy Act, according to the report. John M. Walker Jr., assistant secretary of
the Treasury for enforcement, said Friday he would decide by the end of the
month whether to go ahead with the fine.



Vigorous Denial by Deak

Deak & Comany vigorously denies the charges. A six-page letter sent to the
commission 10 days ago acknowledges that there were compliance problems in 1978
and earlier, largely because of confusions about the law, but denies that there
has been more than an occasional failure of compliance since then.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Nicholas Deak

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              243 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 11, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. AND HAVANA IN TENTATIVE PACT ON RETURN OF 2,500



BYLINE: , Special to the New York Times
By BERNARD GWERTZMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 6; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1040 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 10


United States and Cuban negotiators have reached an agreement in principle on
the terms for repatriation to Cuba of some 2,500 criminals and mental patients,
Administration officials said today.

In return, they said, the United States would resume the processing of regular
emigration from Cuba to this country.

They said that the negotiators, Michael G. Kozak, deputy legal adviser of the
State Department, and Ricardo Alarcon de Quesada, the Deputy Minister of Foreign
Affairs, had concluded a third round of negotiations in New York last week with
an agreement conditional on the approval of both Governments.

If they approve, an announcement could be made as early as Thursday, the
officials said. This would be the first agreement between the two Governments
since the Reagan Administration took office, but Administration officials
stressed that it was limited strictly to immigration matters.



Litigation Called a Problem

A major problem, a State Department official said, is concern by the Justice
Department that litigation in the American courts might prevent the return of
many of the 2,500 so-called excludables, given that name because they are deemed
ineligible for permanent status in this country because of criminal records or
their mental condition. It was unclear tonight whether this might delay
announcement of the accord.

These 2,500 ''excludables'' were among the 125,000 Cubans who came to the United
States in the boatlift from the Cuban port of Mariel in 1980. The vast majority
of the Marielitos, as they are known, have integrated into American life, mostly
in the Miami area. But President Jimmy Carter, and later the Reagan
Administration, tried to persuade the Cuban Government to take back the 2,500,
most of whom were in Federal penal or mental institutions.

In 1983, the Reagan Administration told Cuba that until it agreed to the return
of the unwanted 2,500, the United States would halt admission of Cubans to this
country except for immediate familiy members of American citizens or of
permanent American residents.



Limit on Talks Sought

This meant that thousands of Cubans normally eligible for visas to the United
States, as well as some 3,000 political prisoners previously promised a haven in
this country, were left without entry to the United States unless they could
somehow make their way to third countries.

Initially, the United States wanted to limit the negotiations to the return of
the ''excludables,'' American officials said. But the Cubans always rejected the
idea of just talking about that single category and insisted on widening the
talks to include ''normal migratory procedures,'' they said.

The Cubans have wanted for some time to get the United States to take the former
political prisoners as well as those relatives of Cubans already in the United
States because as a group they were a nuisance to the Cuban Government, American
officials said.



Cuba Agrees to Talks

After months of diplomatic exchanges between the two countries, Cuba agreed last
May to hold negotiations on the questions of migration between two countries,
but suggested that they not be held until after the November elections. After
the Rev. Jesse Jackson's trip to Havana last June, however, the Cubans agreed to
hold the talks before November.

Mr. Kozak and Mr. Alarcon met for the first time in New York on July 12 and 13
and the next round of talks was held from July 31 to Aug. 2. Last week, the
State Department announced that the two negotiators had held their longest
session to date, from Nov. 28 to Dec. 5.

The department said they had discussed ''emigration issues, including the return
to Cuba of those persons from the 1980 Mariel boatlift who are ineligible for
substantive reasons to remain in the United States.''

''As we have indicated, the issues concern the return to Cuba of the Mariel
'excludables,' and resumption of normal immigration from Cuba to the United
States which was suspended after the Mariel boatlift in 1980.''

Talks Called Businesslike

The statement said that ''the tenor of the talks was businesslike.''

''Some progress was made,'' it said. ''Another round of discussions is
foreseen.''

An Administration official said that under the terms of the accord, the Cubans
would take 100 to 150 ''excludables'' a month and the United States would begin
regular processing that could lead to as many as 20,000 to 30,000 Cubans a year
coming to this country, in addition to the 3,000 political prisoners.

The concern of the Justice Department is that legal problems already being
raised in American courts by those Cubans in detention who want to be released
might make it difficult to send the ''excludables'' back to Cuba.

But a White House official said he believed the agreement would be approved and
the announcement made on Thursday. He said the Justice Department was being
''very legalistic'' about this.

Alan C. Nelson, Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said that
''overall we have been pleased with the progress'' made in the negotiations with
Cuba. ''Progress has been made,'' he said. ''We are hopeful the matter will be
resolved soon.'' He indicated that the results of the negotiations to date were
to be reviewed ''at high levels of this Government, above me.''

1,500 Seek to Remain

Mr. Nelson, reached at a conference of senior immigration service officials in
Charleston, S.C., said the Cubans being held in detention by the United States
Government were involved in litigation before Federal District Judge Marvin H.
Shoob in Atlanta.

The litigation, he said, is ''an underlying factor'' that must be considered by
officials from the Departments of State and Justice.

Any agreement to repatriate the Cubans would obviously affect the litigation.
But Mr. Nelson said, ''We are satisfied we have the legal bases to transfer them
out of this country when and if an agreement is reached, subject to a court's
review of the cases.''

In the case before Judge Shoob, a group of 1,500 to 1,600 Cubans who came to the
United States in the ''freedom flotilla'' are seeking two things: release from
detention and asylum, that is, the right to remain in the United States.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              244 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOR MARIELITOS, A NEW SIGN OF HOPE

BYLINE: By JOSEPH MALINCONICO

SECTION: Section 11NJ; Page 1, Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1339 words


WEST NEW YORK FOR MOST of the tens of thousands of Cuban refugees who came to
the United States in the 1980 boatlift, the last several years have been
especially hard.

The Marielitos, as they are called (for Mariel, their port of embarkation), have
had to cope with unemployment, poor housing, a language barrier and social
stigma.

Immigration officials estimate there are about 125,000 Marielitos in this
country, about 20,000 of them in New Jersey. Most of the latter are concentrated
in the northern part of Hudson County, the largest gathering spot for the
refugees outside Miami.

A recent change in policy by the Immigration and Naturalization Service has
opened the way for the Cubans to gain residency status and eventual citizenship,
a signal that perhaps the hard days are nearing an end.

(Agreement in principle also was reached last week by United States and Cuban
negotiators on the repatriation of ''excludables,'' the 2,500 Marielitos deemed
ineligible for permanent status here because of criminal records or mental
conditions. Most have been held in Federal penal or mental institutions since
their arrival.)

''It takes time, but in four or five years I think the Marielitos will not need
us,'' said Guillermo A. Estevez, director of the International Rescue
Committee's North Jersey offices in West New York.

The committee, which works with Marielitos to help them adjust, is one of nine
agencies in the state registering the refugees so they can apply for residency
in April.

The applications will be accepted, now that the Government has put the Cuban
Adjustment Act of 1966 back into active use. Under that act, Cuban nationals who
came to the United States after Jan. 1, 1959, can apply for permanent-resident
status one year after being in this country.

Applications had not been accepted under the act while Congress debated the
proposed Simpson-Mazzoli immigration legislation, which died this year when a
compromise could not be reached. The measure would have limited immigration and
imposed penalties on employers who hired illegal aliens.

New Jersey immigration officials estimate that about 15,000 of the Cuban
refugees in the state will apply for residency. At a chapel in Union City, where
registration began Nov. 30, several days before the Dec. 3 starting date at most
other agencies, 700 Cubans filed applications in the first 3 days.

The enthusiastic response of the refugees cannot be explained by any immediate
rewards they might get from the change in status; instead, the answer can be
found in their desire to erase the social stigma associated with Marielitos,
something that will take place more gradually.

''They have a bad feeling about that word - Marielito,'' said Mr. Estevez, an
earlier immigrant from Cuba.

''When some people find out that you're a Cuban refugee from Mariel,'' said
Manuel Lorenzo, one of three brothers who came to the United States in the
boatlift and now own an auto-repair shop in Weehawken, ''they say, 'Forget it,
I'm getting my car out of here.' ''

Part of the reason for the stigma is that about 10 percent to 20 percent of the
refugees were criminals whom President Fidel Castro of Cuba released from jail
so they could be sent to the United States. Upon arrival, they continued their
lawless ways.

In Union City, for example, the Marielitos have committed a greater percentage
of crimes than their proportion in the general population would suggest.

The recent refugees also have had problems integrating with the rest of the
Cuban population in this country. Many of the earlier refugees came to the
United States soon after the Cuban revolution in 1959.

The median age for the new refugees is 30. Thus, many were only 5 when Mr.
Castro rose to power, and they were brought up in a country where the mores were
much different than they had been before Communism.

To the new immigrants, any older man is a padre, or father, and anyone they meet
is a companero, or someone with whom they share some common goal.

For the Marielitos, the usage of these words was a natural part of their lives
in Cuba, but to the earlier immigrants, it is a sign of disrespect. It did not
help matters that many of the male Marielitos had become accustomed to making
comments to or about women they would see on the street.

In addition, the Marielitos' years under Mr. Castro dulled their initiative and
made them less likely to be innovative, industrious or to save money. None of
this helped them in making the transition to the new country and a new system.

For some, like 35-year-old Jose Alfonso, the transition continues to be a
struggle. For others, like 37-year-old Lazaro Duenas, it has been as smooth and
bright as any success story.

In Cuba, Mr. Alfonso was a guitarist who became frustrated because his music had
to be approved by the Government. Mr. Duenas had been a transportation
administrator who was later demoted to bus driver because his wife's family was
accused of feeding the rebels who continued to fight against the Government in
the early 1960's.

When the opportunity to leave Cuba came, both men seized it and soon found
themselves and their families on overcrowded boats in the stormy waters of the
Caribbean.

Mr. and Mrs. Duenas, their 9-year- old son and about 30 other people had to be
rescued when their vessel began to sink. The captain of Mr. Alfonso's boat told
him (he was traveling with his wife and their infant son) and the other
passengers how dangerous the sailing conditions were and asked if they wanted to
return.

They chose to continue.

''It was preferable to drown than to live in that condition,'' Mr. Alfonso said
through an interpreter.

Once they reached the United States, things continued to go badly for Mr.
Alfonso. Mr. Duenas was much more fortunate.

At first, Mr. Duenas ran a canteen in West New York, delivering food around the
neighborhood and then, about six months after he arrived, he bought a restaurant
that had gone bankrupt. He was able to borrow $7,000, using the collateral of
family members who already lived in the United States.

Mr. Duenas worked long, hard hours and made his business a success. By November
1981, he sold the first restaurant and bought a larger one. Since then, he has
acquired some property adjacent to his business and is converting an embroidery
factory into a social hall.

Mr. Duenas has developed a knack for business, an ability to succeed. He
continues to work in the kitchen of his restaurant. His son, Allan, who has a
home computer in his room, also helps in the restaurant, and his wife, Elcida,
is studying to become a certified public accountant.

But there have been few Marielitos whose lives in the new country have been as
successful as Mr. Duenas's. There have been many whose stories are similar to
that of Mr. Alfonso's.

Mr. Alfonso worked as a stock clerk in a store in West New York for a year until
he saved enough money to buy a van, which he hoped to use to make deliveries to
earn a living. However, his son suffered from bronchitis, and Mr. Alfonso
thought a warmer climate would help his son's condition. He moved his family to
Florida.

After three months in Miami, Mr. Alfonso could not find a job. He moved to
Tampa, but things were no better there, and after eight more months he returned
to West New York.

But jobs were still scarce, and those he found never lasted long. Mr. Alfonso
worked in a pizza factory, for a taxicab company, as a porter at the Meadowlands
Race Track and in construction. He has needed food stamps and rent subsidies to
survive. For nearly two months now, he has been unemployed.

''Here, I am very disoriented,'' he said. ''You know how one gets when one has
no job. One has nowhere to turn. I owe $177 for the electricity bill. Where am I
going to get that? If they turn the lights off, what am I going to do then?''

Mr. Alfonso said that, once he got his residency status, perhaps employers would
be less afraid to hire him; then, perhaps, life will be better.




LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photos

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              245 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 16, 1984, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

FOR CUBANS EXCLUDED, A WAY OUT-OR IN

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2, Column 3; Week in Review Desk

LENGTH: 886 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA


Until last week about 2,700 Cubans, a small part of the more than 125,000
refugees who sailed the ''freedom flotilla'' to Florida four years ago from the
Cuban fishing village of Mariel, had been trapped in a kind of legal limbo.

Classified as what Washington calls ''excludable aliens'' - people whose mental
or criminal past rendered them ineligible for release into the general
population - they have been locked up, either at the Federal penitentiary here
or in jails or mental institutions elsewhere. They could not be deported to Cuba
because Fidel Castro - who though he last week denied it may have purposely
loaded some of them onto the boats to help rid his island of social undesirables
- had refused to take them back. They could not be released from jail because
they were deemed unfit for American society.

On Friday, negotiators from the United States and Cuba reached an agreement, the
first formal accord between Havana and Washington since the Reagan
Administration took office four years ago, that is intended to end that impasse.
Among other things, Cuba agreed to the repatriation of 2,746 so-called
excludables.

In return, the United States will resume a normal immigration policy with Cuba,
which Washington had suspended after the Mariel boatlift. That means Washington
can begin processing as many as 20,000 new Cuban emigrants annually. Preference
will be given to the relatives of United States citizens and of Cubans who have
become permanent residents. The United States also agreed to admit 3,000
political prisoners now in Cuban jails.

More than 120,000 of the Cubans who arrived on American shores four years ago
appear to have adjusted successfully. The largest of their number live in the
Miami area. As the result of a Reagan Administration initiative, many began
applying this month for permanent resident status. As for the 2,700 excludables,
attorneys for the Cubans and Justice Department admit that despite last week's
agreement it is still uncertain when and perhaps even if some of them will
return to Cuba. According to the Government, 1,500 of the refugees, all of them
men, are confined at the Federal Penitentiary here. The remaining 1,200,
including at least one woman, are behind bars elsewhere. A few are inmates in
mental institutions but most are confined to local jails and prisons, serving
sentences for crimes committed since coming to this country.

''In the broadest sense, I think the agreement is a step forward, because I know
some of these people would much rather go back to Cuba than spend their lives
inside a Federal penitentiary in Atlanta,'' said Dale Schwartz, an attorney who
has represented the Cuban inmates at the prison. ''But still, there is no
guarantee that others will not be persecuted if they go back now to Cuba. Who
knows what they will face?''

It was precisely that issue that Mr. Schwartz and another Atlanta lawyer,
Deborah Ebel, raised successfully in October before Federal District Judge
Marvin H. Shoob in Atlanta. Persuaded by testimony that the Cubans might be
persecuted if they were forced to return home, Judge Shoob ordered the Board of
Immigration Appeals to reconsider whether the refugees are entitled to asylum.

A Stumbling BlockThe decision by Judge Shoob now looms as a legal stumbling
block to carrying out the diplomatic accord. That's because Judge Shoob
expressly forbade the Government from deporting those Cubans detained in Atlanta
until the issue of asylum was resolved. The Justice Department Thursday filed a
notice of appeal challenging Judge Shoob's order, and will ask the courts to
expedite a ruling on the matter. Meanwhile, the Government hopes to begin next
month processing for a return to Cuba those refugees outside Atlanta not covered
by Judge Shoob's order.

Mr. Schwartz says he does not argue that all of the detained refugees be given
asylum or freedom, since some are indeed hard-core criminals. But he has
criticized the Attorney General for refusing to release more of the men, some of
whom, Mr. Schwartz argues, have committed only minor crimes. In fact, of the
1,500 men in Atlanta, only 400 have been detained as people believed to be
especially dangerous from the outset. The remainder were initially approved for
release, only to run into trouble with the law and be returned to custody.

While lawyers and diplomats have sought in recent months to thresh out the
answers, the situation inside the Atlanta penitentiary itself has grown
increasingly volatile. Indeed, the population in the prison has continued to
grow, as Cubans in jail elsewhere finish serving their sentences and are
remanded immediately to Federal custody in Atlanta. Without a solution, prison
officials say, the population of the 83-year- old facility could grow to more
than 2,500.

It was a measure of that mounting tension that in October, and again in
November, inmates set fire to beds and clothing, smashed glass and assaulted
gaurds. As a result, all 1,500 are now in what prison officials call a ''lock
down'' situation, that is, they are confined to their cells. How they took the
news that Washington was preparing to trade them back to Cuba was not clear. But
warden Jack Hanberry said that compared to previous weeks, the past few days in
the prison have been ''unusually quiet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              246 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              December 18, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Man Asks Military Trial Rather Than Extradition

BYLINE: UPI

SECTION: Section A; Page 22, Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 189 words

DATELINE: CLEVELAND, Dec. 17


A retired automobile worker whom Israel wants to extradite on charges of World
War II crimes argued today that a military court, not a Federal court, should
try those charged with war crimes.

The man, John Demjanjuk, 64 years old, made the argument in a preliminary
hearing before Federal District Judge Frank Battisti, who is considering the
request for extradition.

Israel contends that Mr. Demjanjuk is the guard inmates at the Treblinka death
camp in Poland called ''Ivan the Terrible.''

Mark O'Connor, Mr. Demjanjuk's lawyer, said only courts such as the one that
judged Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg, West Germany, had jurisdiction over
suspected war criminals.

Judge Battisti did not rule on the request to remove the case from the Federal
courts.

Mr. Demjanjuk says he is not ''Ivan the Terrible,'' but a Ukrainian immigrant
who never persecuted Jews.

Mr. Demjanjuk was stripped of his United States citizenship in a 1981
denaturalization trial for lying on his immigration papers. An immigration judge
found that he could be deported to the Soviet Union, but extradition would take
precedence over deportation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              247 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

             December 26, 1984, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION

SECTION: Section A; Page 12, Column 5; National Desk


Happily Reunited Couple Spends Holiday in U.S.

LOS ANGELES, Dec. 25 (AP) - Eleanor and Richard Parnes considered themselves
among ''the luckiest couples in the world'' today, two and a half weeks after
immigration officials who had deported Mrs. Parnes allowed her to return.

''It's good to be back here, very nice,'' said Mrs. Parnes, 29 years old, who is
expecting a baby in May. She was deported to the Philippines on Nov. 15 and
allowed to fly back to Los Angeles Dec. 7.

Mrs. Parnes had been an undocumented alien since leaving her job as a
housekeeper to the Philippine consul general in Los Angeles in 1974, and had
been under an immediate deportation order for several years.

The United States Immigration and Naturalization Service arrested Mrs. Parnes in
November and deported her. But after public outcry and widespread publicity, she
was allowed to return.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              248 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 7, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

STORY OF A MEXICAN IMMIGRANT 'HERO'

BYLINE: By JESUS RANGEL

SECTION: Section C; Page 15, Column 1; Cultural Desk

LENGTH: 795 words


As a young, restless boy Pedro J. Gonzalez would watch the local telegraph
operator send messages to faraway places and dreamed that one day he too would
be the link between his remote, dusty village in Chihuahua, Mexico, and the rest
of the world.

He eventually did become a telegrapher, at gunpoint in 1910 to the revolutionary
leader Pancho Villa, who was then involved in a struggle to overthrow the
dictator Porfirio Diaz.

But it was only a beginning for Mr. Gonzalez of a long career as a communicator.
Now, Mr. Gonzalez, who is 90 years old and living in the predominately
Mexican-American community of San Ysidro on the border with Mexico, is adding
another dimension.

''Ballad of an Unsung Hero,'' to be shown on WNET/Channel 13 tonight at 10:30,
is a chronicle of Mr. Gonzalez's life as a popular songwriter, singer, the first
Spanish-language radio broadcaster in Southern California, and tireless
civil-rights advocate on behalf of immigrants to the United States who ran afoul
of the police.



In the Style of a Mexican Ballad

But it is also symbolic of the history of the people of Mexican descent in this
country, from the early wave of immigrants following Mexico's revolution, to the
present tide of migrant workers streaming across the border by the hundreds
daily.

The 30-minute program makes entensive use of rare archival film from Mexico and
the United States, and original music and recordings from the 1920's and 30's to
tell the story in the style of a corrido, a Mexican ballad. The show is called
''Unsung Hero'' because it is only recently that Mr. Gonzalez's achievements
have gained widespread recognition.

The historian Larena Parlee, a professor at the University of California at
Irvine, came across Mr. Gonzalez during the summer of 1981 during a fruitless
search for veterans of the Mexican revolution,in which two million people were
killed.

Since then Mr. Gonzalez has become an archetypal figure to the many Mexican
Americans of the Southwest and West, particularly California.

The mayors of Los Angeles and San Diego last month proclaimed a Pedro J.
Gonzalez Day and he has been honored in numerous Mexican-American film festivals
and public gatherings.



Los Angeles Radio Program

After serving with Pancho Villa in the revolution, he joined thousands of
Mexican immigrants in the early 1920's to El Norte - as those who made the trek
called United States - where he worked as a longshoreman and later pioneered the
first Spanish- language radio program in Los Angeles.

Organizing a band of troubadours, ''Los Madrugadores,'' (The Early Birds), Mr.
Gonzalez broadcasted an early-morning wakeup show geared to the workers heading
to the fields and factories of the Southern California area.

It was during that time that he also recorded old Mexican ballads for the
Columbia and Victor labels, which were seeking to capitalize on the huge Latin
market.

But Mr. Gonzalez quickly came to the attention of the local authorities, who
were uneasy about him using his popular show to protest events such as the
forced deportation of a half- million Latins, many of them United States
citizens. It was a time of economic difficulties in this country, and Mr.
Gonzalez was charging that the Hispanics had become scapegoats.

The authorities labeled Mr. Gonzalez a rabble-rouser and tried to cancel his
broadcasting license. He was later sentenced to 50 years in San Quentin prison
on a rape charge, although the conviction has been questioned by Miss Parlee and
others.



Protests Lead to Release

He served six years, but was released in the early 1940's after huge protest
efforts, including appeals by two Mexican presidents, that were organized
principally by his wife, Maria. He was deported to Mexico, where for the next
several decades he continued to pioneer radio broadcasting in Tijuana.
Eventually he was permitted to return to the United States.

Mr. Gonzalez relives the past daily in a one-room museum he keeps in his modest
wooden home, where he lives with his wife, who is 68 years old.

Its walls are covered with old photographs, newspaper clippings, letters,
posters, long lists of names and addresses, an old telegraph key, a Mexican flag
and a United States flag.

Because of the publicity over the half-hour documentary, the home has recently
been the site of numerous visits by activists within the Mexican- American
community who view Mr. Gonzalez as an unknown hero.

''He represents an important part of cultural past and tradition,'' said Miss
Parlee, who co-produced the show, along with Paul Espinosa of San Diego, ''And
the film represents not only the plight of immigrants from Mexico but from other
ethnic groups who experienced discrimination and deportation.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Photo of Pedro J. Gonzalez

TYPE: REVIEW

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              249 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                January 7, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

ISRAEL-RUN AIRLIFT OF ETHIOPIA'S JEWS FROM SUDAN HALTS

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1388 words

DATELINE: ASHKELON, Israel, Jan. 6


The covert airlift of Ethiopian Jews to Israel has been halted because of the
publicity given to the operation, a spokesman for the Jewish Agency, a
semiofficial Government body, announced today.

''The flights have stopped,'' said Zvi Eyal, the spokesman for the Jewish
Agency, the Israeli-Jewish relief organization that has been coordinating the
rescue. ''The last planeload arrived Saturday night. We hope this will only be
temporary. We are now looking for other airlines.''

On Saturday the Belgian charter carrier Trans European Airways - which had
reportedly been paid to ferry some 7,000 Ethiopian Jews to Brussels by way of
the Sudan since late November - announced it was ending its part in the secret
airlift.



Public Disavowals


The announcement of the halt was apparently due to publication of - and fears of
repercussions from - the fact that many of the flights of Ethiopian Jews to
Israel reportedly began in the Sudan, an Arab country that has no diplomatic
relations with Israel. Ethiopia and the Sudan have publicly disavowed the
operation.  There was no independent confirmation that the airlift had been
halted.

News of the airlift was reported in December in two Jewish publications in New
York and Washington. Later, on Dec. 11, The New York Times published an account
of the increased airlift and then other news organizations around the world
published their own reports. The Israeli Government officially acknowledged the
airlift for the first time last Thursday.

Meanwhile, Libya announced today that it would call for an emergency Arab League
meeting to discuss the Israeli airlift of Ethiopian Jews, the official Libyan
press agency reported.



Thousands Still Stranded


The reported abrupt end to the rescue effort has left 6,000 to 8,000 Ethiopian
Jews still inside drought-ridden Ethiopia and at least 4,000 Ethiopian Jews
stranded in refugee camps outside Ethiopia, according to Mr. Eyal.

As for the 12,000 Ethiopian Jews already in to Israel, many of them reacted to
the news of the airlift's halt with shock, bitterness and tears. They blamed the
Jewish Agency and the Israeli Government for publicizing the news out of their
own self-interest, and also criticized news organizations.  Virtually every
Ethiopian Jew already in Israel has a mother, father, brother, sister or cousin
somewhere still en route - some in Ethiopia, some in camps in the Sudan and some
trekking overland between the two.

Dozens of Ethiopians gathered at Jerusalem's Wailing Wall tonight to pray for
their families stranded in Africa. At the Ashkelon absorption center, where the
Ethiopian Jews who got to Israel most recently were being housed, some 150 of
the recent arrivals locked themselves in their rooms, refusing to be interviewed
or photographed by reporters - in the vain hope that this might somehow put the
story back under wraps.  One official working in the Ashkelon center said that
after hearing the news some of the Ethiopians there were ''in a catatonic
state'' and debating whether or not to start ''sitting shiva,'' for their
families, a reference to the Jewish mourning ceremony for the dead.

In the nearby Kiryat Gat absorption center, reporters were able to talk to some
recent arrivals from Ethiopia who could barely contain their anger and hurt at
what they saw as incredible insensitivity by the Israeli authorities in letting
word of the rescue - dubbed ''Operation Moses'' - become public before it was
finished.

Shashi, a 19-year-old Ethiopian woman who was dressed in a brown dress and the
blue sneakers that had been given to her on arrival, broke down in tears trying
to express to a reporter what the announcement of the halt to the operation
meant to her.  Like many families, she explained, hers left Ethiopia piecemeal -
depending on who was the healthiest and always leaving someone behind to mind
their property in case they got turned back.

'Sad All the Day Long'


''I spent two years walking on the road and in Sudan before I got here,'' she
said in broken Hebrew, tears rolling down her cheeks. ''My family is still on
the road and I don't know where. Up until now I had hope that they would come.
Now I am sad all the day long.''

Mikonent Rami, a 20-year-old Ethiopian man who arrived only a month ago at the
Kiryat Gat absorption center, was also the first of his family to reach Israel
through the airlift. His mother, father, grandfather and grandmother are
somewhere on the way.

''I thought everything was being done quietly and then Thursday night I saw it
on the news,'' said Mr. Rami, his voice a mixture of anger and desperation. ''I
could not sleep all night. I can't study. I can't think. I have not eaten a
thing. All my family is there. I don't know enough Hebrew yet. I can't write or
read. What am I going to do here alone?''

When reporters approached Nathan Makonen, a tall 22-year-old Ethiopian who just
arrived in Kiryat Gat, he brusquely put them off. ''Why should we talk to you?''
he demanded. ''What is happening? Why are you here?''

A Different View


The Jewish Agency officials made it clear in their remarks that they took a
different view of the situation from that of the Ethiopian Jews, whom Israeli
rabbis believe are long-lost descendants of the tribe of Dan.

It was public remarks about the Ethiopian rescue mission by two of the Jewish
Agency's top officials, the executive chairman, Aryeh Dulzin, and his deputy,
Yehuda Dominitz, that helped set off the flood of publicity. Given that, the
Jewish Agency officials said, they now feel the best thing to do is to make the
situation as public as possible - in hopes, as Mr. Dulzin put it in an interview
on the Israeli radio, that the rescue operation will henceforth be ''protected
by world opinion.''

The Ethiopian Jews, however, who know how harsh and vindictive the Marxist
Government in Ethiopia can be toward them and how difficult it is to get out,
are not so sanguine about the protection offered by world opinion.

In the wake of the halt of the rescue operation, various Government and Jewish
Agency officials began blaming one another for the publicity that led to the
move, and it appeared that the issue could explode into a major political
affair. Almost the entire evening news was devoted to sorting out responsibility
for the disclosures.

Secret Cabinet Session


The matter was discussed in a secret session by the Cabinet. Yossi Beilin, the
Cabinet secretary, would say afterward only that allegations by Ethiopian Jews
that the Israeli Government had intentionally publicized the operation in order
to put a halt to it, were ''sheer nonsense.''

Rahamim Elazar, a longtime spokesman for Ethiopian Jews in Israel, accused the
Jewish Agency and the Prime Minister's office of a ''conspiracy'' in the
handling of the publicity.

''Everybody wants to be the first to get the credit,'' Mr. Elazar said in a
radio interview. ''Everyone wants the crown. I think they are afraid of all this
massive immigration and can't cope with this absorption problem.''

Haim Aharon, the head of the Jewish Agency's department of immigration and
absorption department, however, accused the Prime Minister's office of
responsibility for the publicity. He said that even after certain information
had been made public Government officials never should have given into
journalists' pressures and held a press conference Thursday acknowledging the
airlift publicly for the first time.

Role of Agency Officials


Several Cabinet members, however, have blamed the Jewish Agency, and
particularly Mr. Dulzin and Mr. Dominitz, for making public statements on the
subject long ago, setting off the deluge of press reports that eventually
prompted the Government Press Office to hold the news conference.

In what appeared to be a thinly disguised call for resignations at the Jewish
Agency, Tourism Minister Avraham Sharir told reporters after the Cabinet session
that, ''Some very responsible people have behaved in such a way that they should
personally draw their own conclusions.''

Meanwhile the right-wing Tehiya Party, which is not part of the ruling coalition
Government, put forward a no-confidence motion in the Parliament over the
handling of the affair by the Prime Minister's office.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Ashkelon resident with Ethiopian Jew

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              250 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 13, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

CHINESE ORGANIZED CRIME SAID TO RISE IN U.S.

BYLINE: By FOX BUTTERFIELD, Special to the New York Times

SECTION: Section 1; Part 1; Page 1, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 2658 words

DATELINE: MONTEREY PARK, Calif.


Led by a man posing as an agent of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,
four Chinese men kidnapped a wealthy 26-year-old Chinese woman from her home in
this Los Angeles suburb last fall. Then they called from Japan to demand ransom
of $1 million, to be paid in Tokyo.

Just before the victim was to be shot, the police rescued her and arrested three
of the kidnappers. They turned out to be members of the Four Seas Gang, a
powerful criminal syndicate from Taiwan whose members include movie stars and
prosperous business executives.

The incident is one of a growing number of cases of Chinese organized crime in
the United States, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the
President's Commission on Organized Crime and police departments around the
country.

''Asian organized crime will end up being the No. 1 organized crime problem in
North America in the next five years,'' said Jon D. Elder, Chief of Police in
Monterey Park, a town where a local supermarket is built to resemble a Chinese
palace and the streets are lined with shops like the Golden Shark Restaurant,
Ma's Acupuncture and East-West Real Estate.

''In my humble opinion,'' Mr. Elder said, ''they'll make the Sicilian Mafia look
like a bunch of Sunday school kids.''

Chinese gangs in particular pose a threat, he suggested, because with bases in
Hong Kong, Taiwan and Southeast Asia, they have access to more money and people
and enjoy a greater sophistication than their Italian counterparts.

The police agree that the vast majority of Chinese are law-abiding, and in
recent years Chinese immigrants have gained widespread public recognition for
their accomplishments in fields like physics, engineering and business.

In the past, the police were aware of a low level of crimes like gambling and
extortion in some of the country's Chinatowns. But the situation suddenly became
much more serious, the law-enforcement officials say, after the immigration laws
were changed in 1965, ending a virtual ban on entry by Asians to the United
States.

From 1970 to 1980, according to the Census Bureau, the number of Chinese in the
United States jumped 85 percent, to 806,027 from 435,062. In 1984 alone, nearly
50,000 ethnic Chinese from China, Hong Kong and Taiwan settled in the United
States, making them the second largest group of legal immigrants after Mexicans,
figures from the Immigration and Naturalization Service show.

''Some of these new immigrants are kids who had a record as toughs on the
streets of Hong Kong,'' said Inspector John R. McKenna, head of the Asian gang
unit of the San Francisco Police Department. ''They don't speak much English,
and when their parents took jobs as waiters in restaurants or workers in garment
factories with long hours, they began forming bands to engage in petty extortion
from businesses in Chinatown.''

Moving Into New Territory

At the same time, some well-established gang leaders from Hong Kong and Taiwan
apparently saw a lucrative new opportunity in the growing Chinese communities in
America and began trying to set up operations, a number of police officials
believe.

In December, in response to this growing problem, the F.B.I. completed an
18-month study of Asian organized crime in the United States, according to
Oliver B. Revell, assistant director of the bureau's criminal investigative
division. Mr. Revell declined to discuss its conclusions, but others with the
F.B.I. said the bureau was considering setting up a special unit on Asian crime.

Last fall the President's Commission on Organized Crime, established by
President Reagan in 1983, held three days of hearings on Chinese, Vietnamese and
Japanese organized crime in the United States. James D. Harmon Jr., the
commission's chief counsel, asserted that secret Chinese criminal groups, known
as triads, were involved in gambling, extortion, prostitution, robbery,
corruption of government officials and murder in a number of American cities.

Mr. Harmon also contended that these groups, through links to Chinese triads in
Asia, were responsible for smuggling 20 to 30 percent of the heroin now entering
the United States and were engaged in huge money-laundering operations using
American banks in Hong Kong to hide their illegal activities.

Skepticism on Drug Link

There is skepticism among some local police departments and the Drug Enforcement
Administration about the commission's contention of heavy Chinese involvement in
heroin traffic.

''Chinese do collect the opium in the Golden Triangle in Southeast Asia and
start turning it into heroin, but they use intermediaries to get it to the U.S.
market,'' an official of the Drug Enforcement Administration said in Washington.
''Chinese are not the major players in heroin trafficking in the United
States.''

Some Chinese were angered by the accusations of large-scale Chinese organized
crime at the recent hearings of the President's commission. ''It makes me mad -
they slandered the Chinese community,'' said Rose Pak, a social activist in San
Francisco's Chinatown.

''I'm not saying there are no gangs, but it was all very exaggerated,'' Miss Pak
said. ''There is nothing like the Mafia here.''

Rapidly Growing Problem

But interviews with local police officials around the country as well as with
agents of the F.B.I. and the Drug Enforcement Administration found widespread
agreement that Chinese organized crime has grown rapidly in the past few years,
posing troublesome questions for those law-enforcement agencies.

The agencies have found the problem especially difficult to handle because few
police officers speak Chinese and because of the clandestine nature of the
Chinese crime groups.

''They are very similar to the early stages of La Cosa Nostra,'' said Mr. Elder,
noting the penchant of both the Chinese and Italian organized crime groups for
secrecy, a love of rituals and strict hierarchical loyalty. Morever, the Chinese
triads, like their Italian counterparts, have a long history and assert a
nationalistic origin.

Image as Robin Hoods

The triads, in fact, are corrupted descendants of 17th-century secret societies
founded to resist the seizure of the imperial throne by the alien Qing dynasty.
In classic Chinese novels their members have often been portrayed as Robin
Hoods.

Chiang Kai-shek used one such group, the Green Gang, which controlled Shanghai's
underground, to massacre Communist labor union members in 1927 and seize control
of the city.

The term triad is a purely English derivation from the groups' sacred symbol, a
triangle whose sides represent Heaven, Earth and Man, the three basic forces of
nature for the Chinese.

In recent years the triads have splintered into competing factions. But American
law-enforcement officers admit they know very little about whether there is any
central control over the groups in America from Hong Kong or Taiwan or whether
direct links from city to city exist inside this country.

New York Case Noted

One recent case that has intrigued the police is that of Edward Tse Chiu Chan, a
prominent business owner in New York who was named in hearings before the
Presidential crime commission as a leader of organized crime in Chinatown. Mr.
Chan is said to have financial interests in a funeral home, two Chinatown
restaurants and a chain of movie theaters that includes one in New York.

A staff investigator for the commission testified that Mr. Chan, a former Hong
Kong police sergeant, had ordered the shooting of dissident gang members in
Chicago and was an executive of an international financial group under Federal
investigation in connection with fraudulent trading in commodities.

The commission investigator also identified Mr. Chan as a former national
president of the On Leong Tong, one of the so-called benevolent societies set up
in Chinatowns around the United States in the 19th century. The investigator
said the tong controlled a youth gang known as the Ghost Shadows.

Mr. Chan has never been indicted, and his lawyer, Frederick P. Hafetz, said his
client denied all the accusations.

A Variety of Situations

Other recent cases indicating the extent of the problem include these:


- In the Chinatown section of Los Angeles, two Chinese robbing a jade and gold
shop died, along with a police officer, in a gun battle in December; another
officer was critically wounded. One of the dead robbers turned out to be a Hong
Kong-born Chinese who had been the key prosecution witness in the trial of
Chinese gang members who killed five bystanders and wounded 11 others in a
shooting spree in the Golden Dragon Restaurant in San Francisco in 1977. The Los
Angeles police said the two dead robbers and three other Chinese subsequently
arrested were part of an Asian-American armed robbery ring with links in Los
Angeles, San Francisco, New York and Hong Kong.


- In November the F.B.I. announced that three top leaders of the Bamboo Gang, a
criminal syndicate from Taiwan, were wanted for the slaying of Henry Liu, a
Chinese writer in San Francisco. Mr. Liu's critical biography of President
Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan had just been published. The lawyer for the slain
author has asserted that the killing was ''ordered and planned by powerful
figures in Taiwan.'' Two of the three suspects wanted by the F.B.I. have been
arrested in Taiwan. Officials there have told Mayor Dianne Feinstein of San
Francisco that they will not extradite the men but will try them if the evidence
warrants..


- A Federal grand jury in San Francisco is investigating Vincent Jew, a 32-
year-old Chinese born in Hong Kong, who is said to be a leader of the Wah Ching,
the dominant gang in that city's Chinatown, according to the Bay area police.
Mr. Jew, who also owns a restaurant and operates a lucrative agency that brings
popular Chinese singers from Taiwan and Hong Kong, disappeared in October after
refusing to testify before the President's commission.

Appalachin Reprise Seen

The commission wanted to question Mr. Jew about his attendance at a five- day
meeting in a Hong Kong hotel in early 1983 that Mr. Harmon of the crime
commission compares to the 1957 gathering of American organized crime figures in
Appalachin, N.Y.

Sgt. Barry Hill of the Toronto police, a specialist on Chinese gangs, said the
Hong Kong meeting was attended by five other leaders of Chinese gangs from New
York, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Toronto. He said they went to Hong
Kong to confer with Lau Wing-keung, head of the Kung Lok triad, one of the four
largest triads in Hong Kong.

According to the sergeant, Mr. Lau was deported from Canada in 1977 for his
involvement in triad activity but keeps in touch with a branch of the Kung Lok
triad in Toronto by telephone and oversaw one of its recent elections.

Although the police do not know what occurred at the Hong Kong meeting, Mr.
Harmon of the Presidential panel believes it was ''an attempt to centralize
control over Chinese organized crime in the United States.''

Burning the Yellow Paper

Sergeant Hill cites other connections between some of the participants in the
gathering. They earlier set up a company, now defunct, to bring Chinese singers
and movie stars to North America; this gave them exclusive rights in each of
their own cities.

In addition, Sergeant Hill asserted that Stephen Tse, who he said was the leader
of an organized crime group in Boston, frequently went to Toronto to meet with
Danny Mo, local head of the Kung Lok triad. On one occasion the two men, both
born in Hong Kong, carried out a triad ceremony known as ''burning the yellow
paper,'' signifying an agreement between different groups.

Mr. Tse has been in jail in Boston since October after refusing to answer
questions by the President's commission about the Hong Kong meeting. An
affidavit filed with the Federal District Court in Boston by the commission
contended that Mr. Tse was known as ''Skyd ragon'' and was head of a group that
had ''conducted illegal gambling operations, extortion of Chinese merchants,
prostitution, narcotics trafficking and other criminal activities, including
murder.''

Case Studies of Problems

The city of Monterey Park provides case studies of some of the Asian crime
problems faced in many communities.

Its Asian populace has jumped to 39 percent of all residents from 2 percent in
the last decade at the same time that its overall population has risen to 59,000
from 49,000. Most of the new inhabitants, who are largely from Taiwan, are
law-abiding, Police Chief Elder is careful to point out.

The number of banks in Monterey Park, which is only seven miles square, has
soared to 28 from 4 in the last decade, and most are owned by Chinese. That
worries Mr. Elder, because he says he has information that they ''launder'' $1.5
million to $2 million every day from illegal activities.

Other law-enforcement officials suggest that some of the money may be capital
sent to the United States by nervous residents of Hong Kong and Taiwan.

Mr. Elder is also disturbed by the appearance of nightclubs such as the Golden
Fountain and Mr. J's in nearby El Monte, which feature ''dancing bears,''
Chinese women who sit and drink or dance with patrons for $18 an hour. The
nightclubs are copies of bars in Taiwan, where customers can pay to take the
women home, and most of the taxi dancers hold student visas, Mr. Elder said.

Efforts in Legal Gambling

The Golden Fountain is owned by a group of investors from Hong Kong who have
tried to buy into a legal poker club in the nearby city of Commerce, where they
proposed to run Chinese gambling games like mah-jongg, Mr. Elder reported. They
have also sought to buy a casino in Las Vegas, Mr. Elder said, and he is
concerned that the investors may only be a front for a triad group from Hong
Kong.

Besides the Four Seas Gang, which staged the recent kidnapping in Monterey Park,
there are at least three other Chinese gangs in the town, Mr. Elder said, and
fighting among them over control of local rackets led to eight shootings in the
Los Angeles area this fall.

Among the many unanswered questions about Chinese gangs is the degree to which
the old tongs are involved in organized crime. These include groups like the On
Leong Tong, based in New York, and the Hop Sing Tong, in San Francisco, which
provide cheap meals and a meeting place for elderly Chinese.

Dispute Over Tongs

Mr. Revell of the F.B.I. said some of the tongs were heavily involved in
gambling and extortion, with their own youth gangs to act as enforcers. But
others are not, he said, adding that he could not go into detail because of
current investigations.

''There is a significant difference between the Chinese and La Cosa Nostra,''
Mr. Revell said. ''The Chinese don't have a network, a commission to arbitrate
disputes.''

The Chinese gangs ''enjoy a degree of autonomy the L.C.N. doesn't,'' he said.
''But some of the Chinese in the United States belonged to gangs while they
lived in Hong Kong and they still have personal ties there, so we can't be sure
about the real connections.''

Miss Pak, the San Francisco social activist, said the tongs consisted of ''just
a bunch of tired old men who were discriminated against for years'' and asserted
that even gambling had virtually disappeared from Chinatown, with fleets of
daily buses now taking Chinese up to Reno to gamble legally and leaving only one
or two old women running small mah-jongg games.

But a Chinese-speaking F.B.I. agent recalled visiting one of those games a few
weeks ago. When he went in, he conceded, there were only a handful of old women
playing mah-jongg, even though he had to pass through three steel doors.

''They let us see just enough to make us think we saw everything,'' the agent
said. ''But a few minutes after we left, they went back to their regular games,
I know.''

Next: The Vietnamese.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

SERIES: First of three articles on crime among Asian immigrants

GRAPHIC: photo of John Elder (page 42)

TYPE: Series

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              251 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 14, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

VIETNAMESE FACES COAST TRIAL IN KILLING OF COLLEGE TEACHER

SECTION: Section A; Page 17, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 680 words

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 13


A 20-year- old Vietnamese immigrant is to go on trial Monday in the death by
shooting of a California State University professor who had close professional
and political ties with Vietnam.

Minh Van Lam, of Westminster, faces a murder charge in the Oct. 13 shooting of
Edward Lee Cooperman, a professor of physics at the university's Fullerton
campus. The police found Dr. Cooperman dead in his office when they responded to
a call from Mr. Lam, whom they later arrested.

Alan May, Mr. Lam's attorney, has suggested in pretrial hearings at the North
Orange County Municipal Court that Dr. Cooperman's death was accidental or even
a suicide, while Dr. Cooperman's family, friends and colleagues maintain that
the 48-year-old professor was the victim of an anti- Communist political
assassination.

''We still have no verifiable indication that this is a political shooting,''
said Capt. James Bankhead of the Fullerton Police Department.

Foundation to Aid Vietnam

But Dr. Cooperman's supporters say they are convinced that his activities in
connection with Vietnam led to his assassination. Dr. Cooperman advocated normal
relations between the United States and Vietnam, and was the founder in 1979 of
the Foundation for Scientific Cooperation with Vietnam.

Mr. May, citing documents taken from Dr. Cooperman's office, has asserted that
the professor had shipped nuclear testing equipment and computer components to
Vietnam, which prompted an investigation by Federal agencies.

The United States forbids the shipment of anything but emergency relief aid to
Vietnam.

''He had received death threats since about 1977, but in the last weeks before
his death he was terrified,'' said Klaaske Cooperman, Dr. Cooperman's widow.

Friends have said that Dr. Cooperman had bought guns for protection and changed
his daily routine in the last weeks of his life.

Anthony Russo Jr., a close friend of Dr. Cooperman's, cited the shooting last
summer in San Francisco of a Vietnamese couple, Ngu Yen Van and Pham Ti Luy, who
were friends of the professor's. A group calling itself the Vietnamese
Organization to Exterminate Communists and Restore the Nation said it was
responsible for the shooting.

Mr. Russo, a former employee of the Rand Corporation, was charged, with Daniel
Ellsberg, with espionage in the Pentagon Papers case, which ended with the
judge's declaring a mistrial.

Lam's Version of Shooting

Mr. Lam has said the shooting of Dr. Cooperman was accidental. Police reports
show that he telephoned Mrs. Cooperman three days later and told her the gun had
discharged while he was engaged in a ''playful tussle'' with his former teacher.

According to Mr. May, Mr. Lam was with Dr. Cooperman on the morning of the
shooting. After the .25-caliber pistol went off, Mr. May said, Mr. Lam left to
see a movie with a girlfriend. He returned three hours later and called the
police. Mr. Lam has pleaded not guilty to the murder charge.

Mr. Lam and Dr. Cooperman met in 1983 when Mr. Lam was a student in one of Dr.
Cooperman's physics classes, and became friends.

At the pretrial hearings witnesses testified that Dr. Cooperman had befriended
several Asian students and had occasionally been seen wrestling with some of
them in his office.

The witnesses also stated that Dr. Cooperman had bought Mr. Lam and two Asian
students black leather jackets. Dr. Cooperman's friends angrily disputed
allegations by Mr. May that Dr. Cooperman had felt a homosexual attraction
toward Mr. Lam.

Mr. May subpoenaed the financial records of Dr. Cooperman's Vietnam foundation
in an effort to establish that financial difficulties might have led him to
suicide.

Mrs. Cooperman testified at a pretrial hearing that her husband had often taken
as much as $55,000 with him on his trips to Vietnam, and had lent tens of
thousands of dollars to friends, but denied that they had financial problems.
She said Dr. Cooperman earned $38,000 a year and that she did not know the
source of the money he used for traveling and to make loans.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              252 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 18, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

ETHIOPIAN JEWS SAID TO RESETTLE ON WEST BANK



BYLINE: , Special to the New York Times
By BERNARD GWERTZMAN

SECTION: Section A; Page 1, Column 5; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17


The Reagan Administration has expressed its concern to Israel about reports that
some Ethiopian Jewish refugees have been settled in the West Bank, State
Department officials said today.

According to the officials, the United States Embassy in Tel Aviv was instructed
to complain to the Israelis about reports that hundreds of the Ethiopian Jews -
part of an airlift of some 10,000 - had been sent to the Kiryat Arba settlement
outside Hebron in the West Bank.

The United States has given Israel some $12.5 million for the resettlement
expenses of new immigrants this fiscal year and Washington wants to make sure
that none of the money is spent on enlarging Jewish settlements in the West
Bank.



Area Remains in Dispute


The West Bank of the Jordan River, populated mostly by Palestinian Arabs, has
been under Israeli control since it was captured from Jordan in the June 1967
war. Jordan seized the West Bank in 1948, and the area's sovereignty remains in
dispute.

The United States has contended that the status of the West Bank should be
decided through negotiations involving Jordan, Egypt, Israel and local
Palestinians and it has asked Israel not to begin additional settlements in
advance of negotiations. Israel has refused to rule out further settlements.

In recent months about half of the estimated 25,000 Jews in Ethiopia have left
the country by foot, ending up in refugee camps in the Sudan with some 200,000
other Ethiopians fleeing famine conditions. As a result of an airlift by a
Belgian charter company paid for by Israel with money received from America,
some 10,000 Ethiopian Jews have made it to Israel. But after the Israeli
Government acknowledged the airlift, following press reports in Israel and
abroad, the Sudanese withdrew their permission for the Belgians to remove the
Ethiopian Jews, American officials said.



Reply by the Israelis


There are believed to be some 2,000 to 3,000 Ethiopian Jews still in the Sudan,
American officials have said.

In response to the American complaint about the relocation of the Ethiopian
Jews, an Israeli Embassy official said that when Yakov Tzur, Minister of
Immigration, was in Washington recently, he said that there were five processing
centers in Israel, and only one of them was in the West Bank at Kiryat Arba. Mr.
Tzur, who was seeking to have the United States double its amount of
resettlement aid to $25 million a year, was said to have assured Washington that
the West Bank center would not necessarily be their permanent home in Israel.

In another matter, Administration officials said today that Israel would
probably receive an extra $400 million in military aid for the next fiscal year
above the current level of $1.4 billion.

But for the moment, officials said, the Administration does not plan to increase
Israel's economic aid above the 1985 fiscal year level of $1.2 billion until the
Israelis put much tougher austerity measures into effect.

An Israeli source said today that Secretary of State George P. Shultz sent a
letter to Prime Minister Shimon Peres on Wednesday complimenting Israel on some
of the economic measures taken to curb inflation, but saying more still had to
be done.

Considerable Discussion Israel originally requested $2.1 billion in military aid
and $1.9 billion in economic aid for the 1986 fiscal year that begins on Oct. 1,
plus an emergency grant of $800 million in supplemental aid for the 1985 fiscal
year ending Sept. 30.

The large amounts sought by Israel have provoked considerable discussion within
the Administration, which is already concerned at the amounts Israel receives in
aid compared with the rest of the world. Egypt also receives some $2 billion and
is seeking another $1 billion in economic aid, which will also not be granted,
officials said.

Despite the refusal to raise Israel's economic aid above the $1.2 billion level,
Administration officials said that it was probable that extra money would be
sought later in the year, either by the Administration or Congress. The extra
money would be contingent on the Israelis cutting their budget significantly and
agreeing to such drastic steps as curbing subsidies for certain businesses, a
move that could lead to increased unemployment.

Pullout Decision Praised In the letter to Mr. Peres, Mr. Shultz also praised the
Israeli decision to withdraw its troops in three stages from Lebanon without
waiting for an agreement with the Lebanese and Syrians. Mr. Shultz said this was
a first step toward the withdrawal of all foreign troops from Lebanon.

But today the Lebanese Ambassador, Abdallah Bouhabib, met with Richard W.
Murphy, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian affairs,
to urge that the United States use its influence to insure that Israel
coordinate its withdrawal with Lebanon to prevent bloodshed among various
Lebanese groups. Lebanon wants Israel to delay its withdrawal until Lebanese
military forces are there to take the place of the Israelis.

The United States has no intention of becoming directly involved in mediation,
department officials said today, although it has remained in touch with all the
parties.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              253 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 21, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
U.S. Says Fear Inhibits Cubans on Registering

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 114 words

DATELINE: MIAMI, Jan. 20


Fear of being sent back to Cuba has kept more than half of Florida's 100,000
refugees who arrived by boat in 1980 from registering for permanent residence,
Federal immigration officials say.

About 125,000 Cubans came from the port of Mariel in 1980. When the Government
re-enacted the dormant Cuban Adjustment Act of 1966, it allowed them to become
legal residents, the first step toward citizenship.

The period for registering began Dec. 3 and ends Jan. 31. So far, officials
said, they had received 45,400 cards. Registration was reported to have fallen
off after Dec. 14, when Washington and Havana signed an agreement under which
Cuba agreed to take back 2,746 criminals.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              254 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               January 21, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. SCREENING BLOCKS RESETTLEMENT OF SOME CAMBODIAN REFUGEES

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE

SECTION: Section A; Page 3, Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 888 words

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Jan. 20


Efforts by the United States to screen out Cambodian refugees who may have been
associated with the brutal Khmer Rouge Government could sharply curtail the
resettlement of Cambodians in the West, according to American and international
refugee officials.

Refugee workers say the screening process, which appears to have become more
stringent over the last year, is inexact and unscientific at best. They say some
innocent people denied entry to the United States because of it, as well as
relatives waiting for them there, are suffering the additional shock of thinking
that they have been tarred by the Khmer Rouge label.

Once rejected by the United States for this reason, caseworkers say, a refugee
has virtually no hope of resettlement in another country.

A staff report recently submitted to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
concludes that the screening of Cambodians is sufficiently flawed to call for a
moratorium on further interviews until precise criteria can be established and
officials can be trained and equipped to administer an improved program.

Khmer Rouge Ruled 3 Years


An American official here said no refugee is labeled as Khmer Rouge. Rejection
indicates only that refugees have failed to satisfy interviewers conclusively
that they were not associated with the Khmer Rouge Government under Pol Pot,
which ruled Cambodia from 1975 to 1978 and was responsible for the deaths of at
least a million Cambodians. Any foreigner who has been involved in persecution
is forbidden entry under United States immigration law.

About 38,000 Cambodians refugees remain confined to the Khao I Dang camp, in
Thailand near the Cambodian border. A quarter of a million more displaced
Cambodians who do not qualify for official refugee status live in encampments
inside Cambodia under the control of three rebel groups fighting the
Vietnamese-backed Government in Phnom Penh. About half of these are believed to
have sought temporary refuge during the Vietnamese offensive, but they are
expected to return after the fighting dies down.

A United States official said questions about Khmer Rouge affiliation arise more
often now because the refugees in the highest priority categories - those with
direct ties to the United States Government or the pre-1975 Cambodian Government
of Lon Nol, and those with close relatives settled abroad - have already been
processed and moved.

Interviewers are now down to people with more tenuous claims and sometimes
serious impediments to American residence, officials say. They estimate that
10,000 to 12,000 Cambodians will be left at Khao I Dang because they failed to
qualify for admission to the United States or other recipient countries.

20,000 May Be Rejected


Nongovernmental refugee workers estimate that the number of rejected Cambodians
will be between 20,000 and 25,000, according to Peter Pond, whose New
Hampshire-based Cambodian Crisis Committee has been working since the late
1970's to aid Cambodian exiles in Thailand and to help them adjust to life in
the United States. Mr. Pond is among the Americans working with refugees who
have been talking with rejected Cambodians in Thailand.

Private refugee organizations and Thai officials say that under a 1979
agreement, Thailand allowed the Cambodians first asylum on the understanding
that the United States and other Western nations would resettle all the refugees
abroad.

Thailand, which has served as a haven for more than 600,000 refugees since
Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos were taken over by Communists a decade ago, had
sought to empty Khao I Dang by the end of last year. American officials expect
the Thais to wait about half a year before they consider sending the unwanted
refugees back into Cambodia. There are about 90,000 other Indochinese refugees,
most of them Laotians, in other Thai camps.

American officials acknowledge that there may be limitations in the present
screening program, but they say they are satisfied it is working equitably.

Interviewed 2 or 3 Times


Cambodian refugees are interviewed two or three times, depending on whether
questions are raised about associations with the Khmer Rouge.

Refugees are seen first by officials of the Joint Voluntary Agency, representing
the private and church resettlement groups in the United States. Refugees whose
accounts of their lives just before and during the Khmer Rouge period leave some
question about their affiliations are then interviewed by embassy officers.
Those officers make recommendations to interviewers from the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, who are the last to see all refugees, and who make the
final decisions. A refugee has no right of appeal; cases are reviewed only if
there is significant new evidence.

Refugee workers say they are often refused information on negative decisions
''for security reasons.'' American officials say the privacy of the refugees and
the interviewing procedure must be protected.

Officials of voluntary and international organizations say refugees fearful of
interviews often trip up by contradicting themselves or others. Refugee workers
say some Cambodians fail the test because they had once lived in a Khmer
Rouge-controlled area or cooperated in some way with the Khmer Rouge when there
was no option but death.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of Cambodian refugees

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              255 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              January 24, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

MAJOR CHANGE IN IMMIGRATION TO CITY IS SEEN

BYLINE: By FRANK PRIAL

SECTION: Section B; Page 4, Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 376 words


New York City, where millions of European immigrants first saw the New World, is
still a city with many newcomers. But virtually all of today's arrivals are
Asians, blacks or Hispanic people, according to the city's Office of Immigration
Affairs.

In fact, more than a quarter of the city's population is now foreign-born, the
agency said yesterday in a report to the Citizens Housing and Planning Council
at Citicorp headquarters, 399 Park Avenue.

The statistics presented were taken from a study on immigration that is being
prepared by the agency, which is part of the Planning Department. The study,
much of which is based on the 1980 Census, is expected to be completed later
this year.

According to the study, the largest group of newcomers to New York City between
1975 and 1980 was the Dominicans, with 36,200 legal immigrants. The next largest
group was the Russians, with 27,500; followed by the Chinese, with 25,500, and
the Jamaicans, with 23,500. After that, in descending order, were immigrants
from Guyana, Haiti, Colombia, Korea, Trinidad-Tobago and India.

Russian Immigration Slows

''The only thing that has kept the pattern from being totally three-color is the
large number of Soviet Jews who have arrived in recent years,'' said Elizabeth
Bogen, the agency's director of immigration studies. The influx of Russion Jews
has slowed to a trickle recently, however, because the Soviet Union has
restricted the number who may leave.

According to the Census, New York had 1.7 million foreign-born residents,
including about 200,000 illegal aliens, in 1980.

The Office of Immigration Affairs estimates that there are now 2.2 million
foreign-born residents here, including 500,000 illegal aliens.

Italians make up the largest foreign- born group in the city, said Frank Vardy,
a Planning Department demographer.

According to the Census figures, there were 156,000 people here in 1980 who were
born in Italy; followed by Dominicans, 120,500; Chinese, 95,000; Jamaicans,
93,000; Russians, 78,500, and Poles, 77,000.

''The Italians are in first place,'' Mr. Vardy said, ''because alone among the
older immigrant groups they tend to stay in the city. They pass the house on
from one generation to another.''


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              256 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 3, 1985, Sunday, Late City Final Edition

NEW AMERICANS: MAKING THE MOST OF OPPORTUNITY

BYLINE: By WILLIAM F. POWERS

SECTION: Section 11LI; Page 20, Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 778 words


HAVE you tried any bulgoki lately? Or have you dug your chopsticks into a rice
bowl filled with steaming hot japchae? These are Korean dishes on the menu of a
new Japanese and Korean takeout restaurant in Suffolk County. Reference to Korea
may evoke memories of a war that took place in the 1950's or of the Olympics to
be held in 1988. But Korea is also the source of a new stream of immigrants to
America, people who tend to be quiet, hard-working entrepreneurs. Recently I met
two of them.

As I waited for my sesame chicken to be prepared, I struck up a conversation
with the owner of the clean, sparsely decorated storefront. He was mopping the
already spotless floor and apologized profusely for a lack of a place for me to
sit down. Tables and chairs were coming soon.

The pleasant gentleman, who appeared to be in his mid-50's, had arrived from
Seoul just a few months before and was struggling to attract clientele to foods
that were largely unknown in the area. He showed me a quarter-page ad in a local
newspaper and wondered aloud if the cost was worth the results. Few customers
had come during the first few weeks of business.

When I mentioned that I worked at a college, the man's eyes brightened and he
began to tell me with great pride in halting English about his family. One son
was studying for a Ph.D. in geology at Stony Brook. Another son was working
toward a Ph.D. in landscape architecture in Connecticut. A third son - who
already had his Ph. D - was a profesor of physics at the University of Seoul.

I was getting dizzy hearing about all these people with doctorates, so I changed
the subject (so I thought) by asking him how he happened to come to Long Island.
He said his brother had been here for 11 years and told him it might be a good
place to locate. Then the new entrepreneur added, ''My brother has a Ph.D. in
computer engineering. He makes $70,000.''

Putting aside his mop, the man went to the kitchen to see how my order was
coming. When he returned, he said that his overhead was low because the only
people working there were family members: his wife, his sister and his
brother-in-law.

The many references to his family led me to think of my own immigrant parents.
My mother was just 16 when she came from Ireland and went into service for a
wealthy family in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. My father got off the boat a few years later
and began work the next day in the housekeeping department of a New York City
hotel.

America was a land of opportunity. With no more than a junior high school
education, my parents had left a homeland that offered bleak prospects for
economic security and no chance for upward mobility. By hard work and frugality,
they had saved enough money so that when they met and married in 1933 they could
start a family. After a few years of living in a Bronx walk-up tenement, they
were able to buy a brick row house in Queens. All this was accomplished during
the Great Depression.

My brother, sister and I went to college, entered middle-class careers, moved to
the suburbs, and all too easily tended to forget the enormous distance we had
come in the course of one generation.

But now my order was ready. The man explained in Korean to his wife, who had
brought the food from the kitchen, that I was a college professor. She beamed
and bowed, honored that I would come to their humble establishment.

Actually, I was the one who was humbled and honored. Here it was again, people
like my mother and father, part of the ceaseless procession of men and women who
come to the United States seeking a better life for themselves, but most of all
for their children.

As this couple would work six days a week, 10 hours a day, to provide for their
needs and to educate their children, so my father had worked for 30 years in a
change booth for the Hudson and Manhattan Railroad (now PATH), while my mother
worked at home caring for the children. Neither complained about long hours or
meager pay. Their motivation and their reward was the knowledge that they were
providing a secure, stable home within which children could develop to their
full potential.

Whereas, in generations past, it was the Irish, Italians and other Europeans who
came to New York, now it is Asians, like the fine couple I met in the
restaurant. Though from the other side of the world, they bring with them the
qualities that virtually insure their success and that of their children: family
love, the willingness to work hard, and a deep gratitude to the country that
gives them their opportunity.




William F. Powers lives in Setauket and teaches at Suffolk County Community
College in Selden.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              257 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 7, 1985, Thursday, Late City Final Edition

AROUND THE NATION;
Official Says Deportation Of Cubans Starts Soon

BYLINE: AP

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 6; National Desk

LENGTH: 111 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 6


More than 2,700 Cuban refugees held in prisons and mental hospitals in the
United States are to be deported to Cuba in groups of about 100 beginning in
three or four weeks, Louis Richard, director of the Immigration and
Naturalization Service office in Atlanta, says.

The refugees left their country in the 1980 exodus by boat that brought about
125,000 Cubans to the United States. Under an agreement the United States and
Cuba reached in December, 2,746 Cubans are to be returned.

Mr. Richard said in an interview published in The Atlanta Constitution today
that he understood the first group would be from St. Elizabeths, a Washington
mental hospital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              258 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

              February 12, 1985, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

CLOSING ARGUMENTS MADE IN VIETNAMESE IMMIGRANT'S MURDER TRIAL

SECTION: Section A; Page 16, Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 614 words

DATELINE: SANTA ANA, Calif., Feb. 11


In closing arguments at the trial of a Vietnamese immigrant accused of murdering
a university professor, the prosecution today characterized the defendant as a
cold, remorseless killer and told the jury that the evidence called for a
verdict of first-degree murder.

His attorney argued in turn that because of cultural differences the defendant,
Minh Van Lam, 21 years old, showed no apparent emotion when confronted with the
death of his friend, Edward Lee Cooperman, a professor of physics for California
State University at Fullerton.

The prosecution has established no motive for the shooting, and the defense said
in closing arguments today that the lack of motive supports Mr. Lam's claim that
the death was accidental.

''It was a tragedy for Dr. Cooperman, it was a tragedy for his family, and it
was a tragedy for Mr. Lam,'' Mr. Lam's lawyer, Alan May, told the court today .
''But he didn't crack up and cry the way the white policemen expected him.

Death Penalty Possible

''He didn't grow up here,'' Mr. May told the jury. ''He came here at 16. He's
adjusted well, but that doesn't mean you can measure his emotional reaction by
what you would expect of your grandchild.''

The defendant could face the death penalty if the 12-person jury finds him
guilty of first-degree murder in the Oct. 13, 1984, shooting of the 48-year-old
Dr. Cooperman, who was found dead in his school office.

Mr. Lam admitted to the shooting, but maintained that the gun went off
accidentally in a playful wrestling match with Dr. Cooperman, a friend who had
given him a motorcycle, firearms and money.

''Based on the facts, it was a first-degree murder,'' Mel Jensen, Deputy
District Attorney for Orange County, said. ''It was a premeditated, deliberate,
wanton act with express intent to kill.''

Mr. Jensen emphasized that Mr. Lam left the scene of the shooting, which
occurred about 11:30 A.M., and failed to call for help. Instead, Mr. Lam picked
up a friend at 12:10, as he had planned earlier that morning, and went to see
the movie ''Purple Rain.''

Mr. Jensen said that the movie's portrayal of a character attempting suicide
inspired Mr. Lam to return to the scene and plant the gun in the professor's
left hand to make it appear that Dr. Cooperman had committed suicide.

Defendant Changes Story

Mr. Lam called the police after returning to the office and placing the gun in
the professor's hand. The defendant originally told the authorities he was not
present at the time of the shooting. He later recanted, and said that he had
been present when the gun went off.

The trial, in Santa Ana Superior Court before Judge Richard Beacom, has
attracted much attention because of Dr. Cooperman's active personal and
political ties to Vietnam. In 1977, Dr. Cooperman formed the U. S. Committee for
Scientific Cooperation with Vietnam and arranged to ship computer equipment,
soil-testing devices, medical supplies and other materials to Hanoi. Under
Federal law, it is illegal to ship anything but humanitarian emergency aid to
Vietnam.

Dr. Cooperman's widow, Klaaske Cooperman, and other friends testified that the
professor often took large amounts of cash, sometimes as much as $50,000, with
him on his periodic trips to Vietnam. In their testimony they said that the
professor had received numerous death threats from right-wing terrorists who
opposed his sympathy for the communists, and that he had armed himself against
assassination attempts.

No evidence was submitted in Mr. Lam's trial that he was connected with any
conspiracy against Dr. Cooperman. Mr. May said that Dr. Cooperman armed Mr. Lam
to use him as a bodyguard.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              259 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 22, 1985, Friday, Late City Final Edition

FIRST GROUP OF CUBAN ALIENS SENT BACK AS UNDESIRABLES

BYLINE: By WILLIAM E. SCHMIDT

SECTION: Section A; Page 10, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 944 words

DATELINE: ATLANTA, Feb. 21


Twenty-three Cuban aliens were put aboard an airplane here today bound for
Havana, the first of more than 2,700 unwanted Cubans who could be sent back as
part of an agreement with the Government of Fidel Castro.

Their transfer marked the first step in a diplomatic accord between Washington
and Havana in which Cuba has agreed to the return of 2,746 refugees from the
1980 boatlift from the fishing port of Mariel. The Cubans being deported are
being held as undesirables in American jails and mental hospitals.

In return for Havana's accepting the Cubans, the United States has promised to
allow about 20,000 Cubans to immigrate to the United States each year.

Subject to Deportation

United States immigration officials said the 23 men in today's group, like most
others in Federal custody, had committed serious crimes either in Cuba or the
United States and were therefore subject to deportation because they were
legally ineligible for residence in this country.

The men were put aboard a chartered Boeing 727 at Dobbins Air Force Base
northwest of here after being transferred by bus from the nearby Atlanta Federal
Pentitinary. About 1,750 of the 2,746 refugees awaiting transfer to Cuba are in
the Atlanta prison.

While armed guards looked on, the Cubans, dressed in blue prison overalls and
wearing wrist manacles, boarded the airplane, parked more than 700 yards from
the nearest building.

They were to be accompanied on the two-hour flight to Cuba by nearly 30 guards
and other officials of the Immigration and Naturalization Service and the Bureau
of Prisons. A spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration here said the
plane landed in Havana, according to The Associated Press.

An official with the immigration service here said that with the exception of
the return in 1981 of a stowaway who had illegally entered the United States,
the 23 were the first Cuban nationals to be officially sent back under the
agreement reached Dec. 14 between the United States and Cuba. That was the first
formal accord between the two governments since the Reagan Administration took
office in 1981.

Earlier in the day, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit here
cleared the way for the deportation of 16 members of the group when it
overturned an order from a Federal district judge, who on Tuesday forbade the
Government from deporting them because of what he called unresolved legal
issues.

16 Had Fought Deportation

The 16 men had contested their deportation. The other seven men had not objected
to being deported, Government officials said.

Judge Charles A. Moye Jr. said the Government had shown ''unseemly haste'' to
return the Cubans.

The Justice Department filed an emergency appeal Wednesday, saying that the
court order threatened to disrupt arrangements agreed to by Cuba. In earlier
court appearances, Justice Department lawyers had argued that if the refugees
were not returned soon, the Cuban Government might change its mind about
accepting them.

The transfer today was a setback for the the refugees who do not want to return
to Cuba. Their lawyers say they will continue efforts try to block further
deportation proceedings because of pending claims for political asylum.

The lawyers argue that the aliens might be subject to persecution and even
torture on their return to Cuba, despite promises by the Castro Government that
they would be treated fairly.

''If all the evidence were considered and a careful analysis of their crimes
undertaken, not all of those returned today would be found ineligible for
asylum,'' said Deborah Ebel, an attorney who has been working on behalf of the
refugees for four years. ''I think the shame is that we might never know what
will happen to them.''

Miss Ebel noted that a hearing was scheduled next week before the 11th circuit
appeals court on whether all the Cuban aliens in the Atlanta prison are
entitled, as a group, to new hearings by immigration officials on their claims
for asylum.

The 2,746 refugees the Government wants to send back came in the so- called
Freedom Flotilla, a makeshift armada of small boats that brought more than
125,000 Cubans to Florida. The vast majority of those refugees have managed to
successfully integrate themselves into American society. They became eligible
last December to apply for permanent resident status.

As a result of the boatlift, the United States suspended emigration from Cuba.
There were reports that Mr. Castro put criminals and mental patients aboard the
boats. Mr. Castro denied the allegations.



Political Prisoners Accepted

Among the group returned today were men who had admitted to homicide, burglary
and assaults while in Cuba. Federal prison officials have said that about 400 of
the 1,750 inmates at the Atlanta penitentiary had been there since they arrived
in the United States in 1980.

Under terms of the agreement with Cuba, the Unites States will return up to 100
of the Cubans a month. In addition to allowing 20,000 Cuban immigrants a year,
the United States has promised to accept about 3,000 Cuban political prisoners
and their families.

Duke Austin, a spokesman for the immigration service in Atlanta, said 1,400 of
the 2,746 Cubans covered by the accord had received final orders of exclusion,
which means they are subject to immediate deportation. But he says immigration
officials are now individually reviewing the cases of those who have recently
made application for political asylum.

The continuing incarceration of the Cuban aliens has cost the Federal Government
about $41 million a year, immigration officials said today.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: photo of refugees

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              260 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               February 25, 1985, Monday, Late City Final Edition

U.S. FAULTED ON CUBAN ALIENS

SECTION: Section A; Page 11, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 315 words


Nearly two thousand Cuban refugees held in state prisons throughout the country
were omitted from a list of aliens scheduled to be deported to Cuba, Senator
Alfonse M. D'Amato said yesterday.

The New York Republican, in a statement critical of the the Immigration and
Naturalization Service, said the service had failed to list the state prisoners
among 2,746 refugees who have been declared undesirables and are now held in
mental hospitals and Federal prisons.

Those refugees are being sent back to Cuba as part of an agreement with the
Government of Fidel Castro. Twenty- three Cubans, who were among more than 1,700
being held at the Federal Penitentiary in Atlanta, were flown to Havana Thursday
as the deportation began.

The refugees, part of the 1980 boatlift from the Cuban fishing port of Mariel,
committed serious crimes either in Cuba or the United States. The ones being
held in state prisons fall into the same categories, an aide to the Senator
said.

Among the states where the aliens are being held are Pennsylvania, New Jersey
and Florida, Mr. D'Amato said. He said the confinement of these prisoners was
costing states an estimated $40 million annually. In New York State facilities,
he said, only 19 out of 360 inmates had been scheduled for deportation.

''This is the fault of the Immigration and Naturalization Service,'' the Senator
said. ''They've done a terrible job. I think it's a case where the Immigration
and Naturalization Service just didn't give the kind of care and attention thay
they should have to this situation.''

Verne Jervis, a spokeman for the immigration service, would not comment on Mr.
D'Amato's charges.

Under the terms of the Dec. 14 agreement with Cuba, the refugees would be
returned at a rate of 100 a month. In exchange, the United States has promised
to allow the resumption of normal immigration policy with Cuba.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1985 The New York Times Company


                              261 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

                  May 7, 1984, Monday, Late City Final Edition

HISPANIC SUPPORT FOR EMPLOYER SANCTIONS

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 280 words


To the Editor:


Recent reports in The Times portray divisions within the Democratic Party
between Hispanic-Americans and organized labor on the desirability of a law
making it illegal for employers to hire illegal aliens. These reports seem to
suggest that there is a consensus among Hispanics that employer sanctions are
undesirable because of their potential to cause discrimination against
minorities.

In fact, the opposite is true. In 1983, two polls confirmed that
Hispanic-Americans favor employer sanctions. In October 1983, a Gallup Poll
found that 75 percent of Hispanic respondents favored a bill making it ''against
the law to employ a person without proper papers.'' Also, 75 percent of Hispanic
respondents said they thought ''everyone in the United States should be required
to carry an identification card such as a Social Security card.'' In August
1983, a poll conducted jointly by Peter D. Hart Research Associates and V. Lance
Tarrance and Associates, two of the premier political polling firms in the
country, found that 66 percent of U.S. citizens of Hispanic origin who responded
favored ''having penalties and fines for employers who hire illegal aliens.''
(Among all Hispanic respondents, 60 percent favored them.) Despite comments from
a few professional ''pols,'' it is obvious that the vast majority of
Hispanic-Americans are not going to base their Presidential votes on whether the
Democratic Party brings this bill up for a full House vote. There is a consensus
in the land. The House should get on with it.

ROGER CONNER Executive Director, Federation for American Immigration Reform
Washington, April 23, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              262 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               September 7, 1984, Friday, Late City Final Edition

BEYOND PASSPORTS

SECTION: Section A; Page 26, Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 101 words


To the Editor:


In his Aug. 27 Op-Ed article, ''U.S. Wealth, Not Foreign Poverty, Comes First,''
Jack Beatty deplores the loss of U.S. jobs to cheap foreign labor. While this is
certainly lamentable for the American worker and the American economy, far more
lamentable are Mr. Beatty's words ''I am not a citizen of the world.''

May I ask Mr. Beatty of what planet he is a citizen? Of course he is a citizen
of the world, though he may have no pieces of paper that say so. How sad to
place the name of the country on your passport before humankind.

MARK OLMSTED New York, Aug. 27, 1984

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: letter

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company


                              263 of 263 DOCUMENTS

                               The New York Times

               December 4, 1984, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition

SUPREME COURT ROUNDUP;
'EXCLUDABLE' HAITIANS TO GET HEARING ON PLEA

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

SECTION: Section A; Page 18, Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1039 words

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 3


The Supreme Court agreed today to decide whether Haitian refugees seeking asylum
in the United States could challenge the constitutionality of their confinement
in Federal detention centers.

The case could produce an important ruling on the rights of a particular group
of aliens, those who have never entered the country but have been stopped at the
border and are deemed ''excludable.''

A Federal appeals court ruled earlier this year, in a lawsuit brought in behalf
of 2,000 Haitian ''boat people,'' that excludable aliens ''have no
constitutional rights'' to challenge the way in which their admission to the
country is handled.

By a vote of 8 to 4 that court, the United States Court of Appeals for the 11th
Circuit, overturned an earlier ruling by a panel of three of its judges that the
Government's policy of keeping the Haitians in detention while considering their
asylum applications amounted to unconstitutional discrimination on the basis of
national origin.

Dred Scott Decision Cited

The Haitians' appeal to the Supreme Court argued that not since the Dred Scott
decision of 1857, in which the Court ruled that blacks born into slavery had no
constitutional rights, had a Federal court ruled that ''a class of persons is
wholly beyond the Constitution.''

The Haitians' appeal was supported by the N.A.A.C.P., the Congressional Black
Caucus and several other civil rights organizations.

The Court's decision to hear the appeal was something of a surprise. The Justice
Department had urged the Court not to take the case, telling the Justices that
the 11th Circuit's constitutional view was ''fully consistent with a long line
of precedent.'' Three years ago, in another immigration case, the Supreme Court
ruled that an alien seeking initial admission to the country ''requests a
privilege'' and has ''no constitutional rights regarding his application.''

Other Decisions on Aliens

By contrast, the courts have interpreted the Constitution as providing an array
of protections for aliens who have managed to enter the country, even if their
entry was illegal. The Supreme Court ruled several years ago that Texas could
not deny a free public education to illegal alien children. The Haitian appeal,
Jean v. Nelson, No. 84- 5240, involves only the narrower category of aliens who
are deemed, in effect, never to have entered the country in the first place.

Relatively few of the Haitians involved in the case are still in detention. Most
were released in 1982 as a result of a Federal District Court decision that the
Reagan Administration had not followed proper procedures in 1981 when it adopted
a new policy of detaining aliens whose asylum claims had not yet been
determined. The previous policy had been a liberal use of parole for aliens
whose status as refugees was not yet settled. The Administration recodified its
new policy to conform to the court's procedural requirements, and the Haitians
renewed their constitutional argument that the detention policy was
unconstitutional.

The scope of the Court's eventual decision, which is expected by early next
summer, is somewhat unclear. If the Court decides that the 11th Circuit was
wrong, and that excludable aliens may raise a constitutional challenge to their
treatment, the normal course would be for the Court to send the case back to the
lower courts for a ruling on whether the detention policy violated the
Constitution. But it is at least theoretically possible that the Supreme Court
itself could choose to address the merits of the constitutional case.

The Court also agreed today to hear another immigration case, this time at the
request of the Federal Government. The immigration laws permit the Attorney
General to suspend deportation proceedings against an otherwise deportable alien
who has been ''physically present in the United States'' for a continuous period
of seven years and who can show that deportation would be an ''extreme
hardship.''

The question in the case the Court accepted today is whether the Attorney
General may refuse to grant a hearing to an alien who reached the seven-year
mark only through the filing of frivolous appeals that have enabled him to
escape deportation. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit
ruled, in the case of a husband and wife who entered the country illegally from
Mexico in 1974, that the filing of numerous appeals did not justify the
Government's refusal to grant a new hearing. The Government appealed on the
ground that the decision would encourage ''dilatory tactics'' and disregard of
the immigration laws. (I.N.S. v. Rios- Pineda, No. 83-2032).

Other developments today included:

Military Access

Accepting another Government appeal, the Court agreed to decide whether someone
who had been formally barred from entering a military base may also be kept off
the base at an ''open house'' to which the public at large is invited.

The case, U.S. v. Albertini, No. 83- 1624, involves a ''bar letter'' procedure,
which prevents entry to a particular base without permission. Ignoring a bar
letter is a criminal offense punishable by fine or jail.

The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled that the First
Amendment's free speech guarantee prevented the Government from enforcing the
law against a recipient of a bar letter who re-entered the base for an open
house to engage in an antiwar demonstration. The case grew out of an incident at
Hickam Air Force Base in Hawaii.

 Handicapped Children

The Court agreed to examine the circumstances under which local school districts
may be required by Federal law to reimburse the parents of handicapped children
for private school tuition. The case involves a learning-disabled child whose
parents took him out of the Burlington, Mass., public schools in a dispute over
whether the district could design an appropriate program for him. The school
district is appealing a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit that the parents' action did not necessarily free the district of
the obligation to reimburse them. The case, School Committee v. Mass. Dept. of
Education, No. 84- 433, arose under the Education of the Handicapped Act.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1984 The New York Times Company
